ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u1	16. Government bill on the prevention of major accidents caused by selected hazardous chemicals or chemical mixtures and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended (Law on the Prevention of Major Accidents) /German press 399/ - second reading Please, under the authority of the Government, the draft bill presented by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u2	Thank you. Beautiful afternoon. I draw attention here to the unspoken ballot card, so that no one misses it next door, or maybe the rapporteur has already put it in front. I would be happy to do so, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief on my average, so as not to repeat the rather extensive introduction that I have said here about the bill at first reading. Let me just remind you that the bill has been drafted in order to ensure the transposition of the European Union directive, so called. the SEVESO Directive, which lays down rules on objects in connection with which the use of hazardous chemicals and mixtures takes place, which then constitute an increased risk of occurrence of emergencies. Let me just repeat these major changes very briefly compared to the existing legislation. In particular, the scope of the new law is extended in relation to the buildings of underground gas reservoirs, the categorization of buildings is further refined and changes are also taking place in the process of approving security documentation by the regional authorities and, last but not least, an explicit anchoring of the role of the Fire Rescue Corps in the processing of external emergency plans. According to my information in the committee discussions, in total three committees, the rapporteurs will certainly say so, so there have been some legislative technical adjustments and we agree with them as the petitioner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u3	I thank the Minister for his brief introduction. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as well as to the Security Committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 399/1 to 3. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Josef Nekl, first of all, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u4	Yes. Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on the Environment, at its 22nd meeting of 15 April of this year on this government bill, decided this way. After the statement of reasons by the Deputy Minister of Environment . Berenika Peštová, doktor Josef Nekl's intelligence report, and after the debate, recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the proposal be approved as amended by the amendments adopted. These are indeed legislative proposals and are published in the press that you have announced. Further - Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and has authorised the rapporteur to report on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment and empowers the rapporteur to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the legislative department. I stress once again that the amendments are only legislatively technical in nature, so there is no need to justify them extensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u5	I thank the rapporteur, and now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Petr Bendl, take the floor gradually - is he interested in speaking up? The MP is not interested. Thank you. And the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Václav Klučka. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to introduce the House to resolution 66 of the Security Committee of the 16th meeting which took place on 22 April 2015 on the Government Bill on the Prevention of Major Accidents caused by selected hazardous chemicals or chemical mixtures and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Charges, as amended, Major Accident Prevention Act, House Print No. 399. Committee on Security of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Deputy Minister of Environment . Berenika Peštová, following a report by the rapporteur of the Ing Committee. Václav Klučka and after a general and detailed debate first recommends The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, in order to express its agreement with the Government's proposal for a law on the prevention of major accidents caused by selected hazardous chemicals or chemical mixtures and amending Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended. Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Václav Klučka, and I am opening a general debate to which Mr Jan Zahradník first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for the Environment is presenting us with another one of a number of laws that are imposed by European Union legislation. That is, I would almost say, already by the rule. Unfortunately, one of the laws which are not imposed on the Union is the Nature and Landscape Protection Act, which we have on the agenda of this meeting, and it will unfortunately have a very negative impact. But I don't want to deal with that. I would like to address this law, which is specifically technical and really very complex for the layman. I consulted his text with the Regional Authority of the South Bohemia Region and came to the conclusion that there are some things that merit discussion at least at second reading. For example, there is § 31 para. In order to assess the risks of a major accident, the regional authority will have to obtain an operator, it will have to obtain an authorised legal person, i.e. the regional authority will ensure that the assessment is carried out to assess the risks of a major accident submitted by the operator in accordance with paragraph 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. According to this law, this person is likely to be the Labour Safety Research Institute. In so doing, there is Law No. 312/2002 Coll., on officials of local authorities and on the amendment of certain laws, which in its § 21 para. 1 states that the management of the activity provided for by the implementing legislation is ensured by a territorial self-governing unit through officials who have demonstrated specific competence. Therefore, the relevant binding opinion should be issued in this case by an official who has passed the special competence test. The legislator assumes that the risk assessment for the purposes of the binding opinion does not have to be based on as much detailed information as is necessary for the purposes of the processing of the safety documentation, from which it can be deduced that this risk assessment could be drawn up by a regional authority official using the legislation as is the case, for example, when establishing an emergency planning zone or in the case of processing and providing information to the public. Therefore, we consider that Article 31 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 3 is redundant in the law, and I would therefore like to propose an amendment, which is that I propose that this paragraph 3 of Section 31 be deleted from the proposed law. The other provisions of the Act submitted do not need to be amended on the basis of this amendment, as the obligation to process the opinion remains unaffected in the case of the approval of the safety documentation, i.e. for the security programme, the safety report, their update or the draft report on the assessment of the safety report. So this is my amendment, which I will then make in a detailed debate. Furthermore, I believe that there are other shortcomings in this law, which are relatively not significantly responding to what we have witnessed, for example, in accidents in ammunition warehouses in the village of Vrbětice, or in finding illegal material in the municipality of Slatina u Vysoký Mýta. Here it is quite vaguely said that the regional authority decides to ban the use of the object or parts thereof, while I think these measures should be even more stringent. But here I dare not advise the petitioner and his provisions, which he apparently came to with the knowledge of what occurred in Vrbětice, to intervene. Similarly, there is a debatable § 51 para. 2 where the circumstances under which the use of the object may be prohibited are listed. Here it should be said that the operator should end use if it violates a ban on use issued pursuant to Article 49 (1) of the EC Treaty. 6. So this is my proposal, rather not too extensive in form, but I think it is important, given the authority of the self-governing regions and their regional authorities. In a detailed debate, I will then come forward and read this proposal again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u9	I thank Mr Zahradník and ask who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. I am opening a detailed debate. Jan Zahradník, Mr. Jan Zahradník, is the first to report. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u10	Mr President, as I have already mentioned and justified, I propose that Article 31 (2) of the Act should be deleted from the draft. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The assessment of the risks of a major accident shall be carried out in accordance with Sections 18 and 19 mutatis mutandis, but the time limit for the assessment shall not exceed 20 days. In justified cases, in particular complex cases, this period may be extended for a further period of 20 days.' Therefore, I propose to delete this paragraph of Section 31 from the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-16-ps2013-029-01-002-016.u11	I thank Mr Zahradník for the justification of his amendment. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I conclude a detailed debate, I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur, if any. Not interested. And since I am not registering a motion to renegotiate the bill, I am ending the second reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. [[16.00 hours]] But Minister Richard Brabec will remain at the rapporteur's table because the next item in our meeting is:
