ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u1	82. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and other related laws /German press 351/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Milan Urban, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are in print 351/10, delivered on 12 March. The motion to dismiss has not been filed. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 351/11. I will ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already introduced you to the content of the proposed amendment to the Energy Act at first reading and during its discussions in committee. I would now like to remind you that the aim of this amendment is also to ensure the transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive, the adaptation of the regulation on the guidelines of the trans-European energy network and the regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market, as well as the European Commission's notification decision on the promotion of renewable energy sources. [[9.20 hours]] A large part of the amendment points relate to the amendments related to the new Civil Code and the Commercial Corporations Act. I am glad that the Energy Act was the first to be discussed under the new Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies by a guarantee committee. The Economic Committee designated by the House as a guarantee met on 18 March. The Committee discussed all the amendments applied at second reading and recommended that some amendments be accepted and some not accepted. I agree with the position of the guarantee committee in the vast majority. The exception is the amendment which provides support to solar power plants put into operation at the beginning of 2011 as those put into service in 2010. I cannot agree with this amendment because it would entail additional expenditure for the state budget and consumers and could endanger some of the prosecutions that are ongoing. In view of the above, I would like the House to vote this amendment on its own. I will comment on the amendments tabled in the second reading of the Energy Act in particular during the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u3	Thank you, Minister. I open a general debate and have three applications for it. Mr Fiedler, who has the floor, will be prepared by Mr Adam and others, who are five at this stage. I ask Mr Fiedler to take the floor. Before she gets to the pitch, I will apologize to Vice-President Jermanová, who apologizes for work reasons all day. I also apologize to Minister Took, who also apologizes throughout the day and also for work reasons. So many apologies. Mr. Fiedler has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to describe the whole issue on the fundamental disagreement with the article entitled Energy Act under tension, published on 26 March 2015 in the journal Economist in the section Theme, and its author is Deputy Editor David Tramba. The article only deals with the energy law, so perhaps the President will not interrupt me. I would like to say here that, at the same time, this can serve as a recapitulation of what happened in the approval and discussion of the amendment to the Energy Act. I'm starting to read: The regulatory authority led by Alena Vitásková complicates the adoption of an amendment to the Energy Act. It warns about the billions of changes, but its argument stands on the water. The draft amendment to the Energy Act was conceived at the Ministry of Industry last June. After nine months, figuratively speaking, he wasn't born yet. The amendment is stuck in the Chamber of Deputies, where it is the subject of political struggles and trades. The original proposal changes beyond recognition. Members tabled some 350 amendments, half of which is contained in a comprehensive package of amendments approved by the House's Economic Committee. Some proposals are of a fundamental nature, others tend to give rise to a smile. The heat energy distributor, for example, will be obliged to dispose of the resulting log on its cargo after removal or embellishment of the tree. Other proposals may, on the contrary, put the Czech Republic in trouble. The Social Policy Committee proposes that people should be able, without sanctions, to terminate the concluded electricity or gas contract 15 days after the start of the supply. In the environment of aggressive door-to-door sales, it seems like a reasonable suggestion. However, the problem is that it is contrary to the law of the European Union. The fight for individual provisions of the Act takes place in a tense atmosphere between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Energy Regulatory Office. The government coalition is on the side of Minister Mládek, who talks about the bossing of Alena Vitásková at the ERO as a self-destruction that needs to be ended. On the contrary, the opposition parties - the most loudest of all our parliamentary club - are on the side of the President of the Regulatory Authority. Deterioration of relations between the Ministry of Industry and Regulator has been observed since spring 2013. Vitásková then tried to shorten the gas regulatory period and tighten the rules for determining gas distribution and transmission prices. The Ministry stood up for the gas guys and started a conflict that continues to gain strength. Ministers therefore came up with a proposal on how to sharpen Vitásková's almost unlimited power so far. Instead of the President appointed by the President, a five-member board was to be given the lead in a row. Its members were designed by the Minister of Industry from among experienced energy experts and managers. Vitásková, however, launched a sharp campaign against the proposal and the opposition took her side. That was the main reason the House passed the law in the fall. The Ministry of Mládkův therefore dropped its plans in January. The ERU Council is to be established on 1 August 2017, i.e. at the end of the six-year presidency. I continue to quote: In the Ministry of Industry, however, they probably regret their concessions today. The verbal attacks on the proposed amendment by the ERO continue, even gaining intensity - which we have been rich here, the usual discussions witnessed at the second reading of this law. The House's arguments are mainly spread by Members of the Dawn of Direct Democracy. They released a number of catastrophic scenarios two weeks ago, although unsubstantiated warnings. - I'm stressing that I'm quoting. - "There is a 20 per cent increase in gas prices for citizens. We need to be told, and so did the experts, the head of úsvit Okamura. Another member of the Dawn, David Kádner, haunted the negative impact of the proposed changes in the gas industry range of 20 billion, the impact on electricity is said to be even higher. According to him, energy distributors will be obliged to pay compensation to landowners, and registration will also be expensive, including material burdens in land cadastrals. - Here, yes, this is being dealt with by the Cadastral Authority, but at the moment it cannot be clearly said how this situation will be dealt with, and this problem, we know it is merely postponed to the future period. I continue to quote: Minister Jan Mládek subsequently described this information as spreading the alarm message. "Let us not be influenced and let us not be manipulated by officials who obviously exceed their competence," Mládek said to Vitásková. Representatives of the government coalition claim that Members of the Dawn have been fooled by the unsubstantiated arguments of the energy regulator. "Everything you read here was simply written by an insolent spokesperson for the Energy Regulatory Authority, carrying it to you and trying to teach you," said Mr Milan Urban for the ČSSD, who is in charge of the energy law as rapporteur. This insolent speaker is Jiří Chvojka, who became visible two weeks ago by an emotional performance on Czech television. The negative financial impact of the amendment to the Energy Act was estimated at CZK 150 billion, but he could not explain how he had reached the figure. "When I was watching the office spokesperson on TV, I realized that the person was throwing ciphers and he didn't have a calculation," Ivan Gabal responded to his words. I'd like to know the calculations and calculations that unfortunately we still haven't seen. [[9.30 hours]] I continue to quote: Chvojkův's performance is likely to have a court-martial. "The same people from the former ERO leadership who allowed the solar boom are now sitting on the Government's Legislative Council, covering their tracks behind the solar barons. It is especially Antonín Panák," Chvojka said on Czech television. Antonín Panák, who now works as an energy consultant at Ernst & Young, will sue Chvoj for these statements. "I am not a member of the Legislative Council of the Government, I was just working with it. I became Vice-President of the ERO after the end of the solar boom, and I left the ERO just to cover my tracks," says Antonín Panák. The subject of political play is far from merely cutting off the powers of Alena Vitásková. A great deal of attention is also attracted by the term on which people will be able to terminate the energy contract concluded with a door-to-door vendor or via the Internet. The proposal is regularly returned to the game so that the two-week period does not count from the date of signature of the contract, but from the date of launch of the delivery. CEZ and other large energy suppliers lobby for such a solution, which would buy much more time to persuade lost customers to return. If the proposal is approved, the Czech Republic will put itself at risk of penal proceedings, the so-called infringement, on the part of the European Commission. "The Union has made it clear that the supply of energy is one of the services and the withdrawal is therefore possible within 14 days of the signing of the contract. If a country sets more favourable terms from the customer's point of view, the Commission considers this to be a breach of the conditions of the single market and requires a change of rules," warns Antonín Panák from Ernst & Young. Moreover, such a proposal seems redundant. The new Civil Code deals with withdrawal from the contract. "This generally allows the consumer to withdraw from the contract within 14 days of the date of conclusion of the contract in the case of distance contracts and contracts concluded outside commercial premises. This adjustment will also apply to contracts relating to the supply of electricity or gas," said Alexander Mackanič of PwC Legal. Last week, the Economic Committee recommended the adoption of a rather refined text by Members from the Social Committee. At first glance, this regulation of the Energy Act is in line with European rules. Withdrawal from the contract will really be possible within 14 days of the conclusion. However, the next paragraph states that the customer is entitled to terminate the power supply contract concluded outside the supplier's normal business premises in the first two weeks after the start of the delivery. The question remains as to how these words will be considered by the European Commission and the European Court of Justice. Someone wants to help energy customers, other photovoltaic investors. KSČM President Pavel Kováčik tabled an amendment that the owners of solar power plants completed in January and February 2011 should be entitled to the same amount of operating subsidies as those who had completed them in 2010. 57 owners of solar power plants with a total output of about 60 megawatts would benefit from such a change. They currently receive only roughly half of the subsidies compared to the owners of power plants connected to the network until December 2010 - 6 CZK per kilowatt hour instead of 12 CZK - and most of them manage with loss. Here's where I'm going to put my slip again. The reports, stories and stories about how solar power plants have been and have not been connected, i.e. about how they have been connected under strange circumstances, are well known to everyone and I believe that all the Members present in this Chamber of Deputies. I continue to quote: The Member justifies its proposal by the fact that this group of investors managed to complete its power plants in time. They added that CEZ did not connect them to the power grid in time. These investors are now seeking their rights by judicial means. "In the event that the damage to businessmen win disputes, there is a real danger to the State of significant financial costs, higher than any compensation for damage caused by this amendment," says Mr Kováčik. With its proposal, it wants to help owners of medium-sized solar power plants, for example, from farms. However, owners of relatively large solar parks will also make money on it. Namely, attorney Daniel Honzík, who was famous for his participation in the case of the controversial restitution of the land after the first country estate Julio Julio Bečvář. Nor can a negative impact be omitted on the state budget. According to the indicative calculation of the weekly Economist, the cost of subsidising solar power plants would increase by 400 million if Mr Kováčik's proposal was approved. crowns a year. This is difficult to bear in a situation where energy users and state cashiers pay for renewable energy sources of about 40 billion. $28 billion a year. heading towards the owners of solar power plants. - I'm pointing out I'm still quoting. Despite the negative opinion of the Ministry of Industry and the rapporteur of the amendment to the Energy Act Milan Urban, however, Members of the Economic Committee Kováčikův's proposal gave the green light. Two thirds of the 19 Members present recommended the intention. The final verdict will be delivered by the Chamber of Deputies in April when the third reading of the amendment comes. - So we decide today, and I believe that the Chamber of Deputies will make the right decision. Everyone has an opinion on the use of renewable energy resources. This applies, of course, to members of the Lower House of Parliament. Some of them want to make life easier for green energy investors, others want to complicate it. The Energy Regulatory Authority initially tried to push the ceiling of the maximum possible production of subsidised electricity per year into the law. This would mainly affect operators of water, wind and solar power plants, for which the production volume depends on the selected location and weather. Last year, however, the original proposal came across opposition from the Legislative Council of the Government and disappeared from the amendment. Now Mr. Petr Adam from Dawn is trying to get him back into the game again. However, he did not receive aid from the Economic Committee last week for his proposal. The Committee on the Environment seeks to promote that only biogas stations with an electrical output of up to 500 kilowatts are newly receiving operating subsidies instead of the proposed 550. It looks like a detail, but in practice it is mostly biogas with a power range of 500 to 550 kilowatts. According to the weekly Economist, part of the Members want to harm Agrofert holding owned by Andrej Babiš. Farmtec, a subsidiary of Agrofert, is one of the largest suppliers of biogas stations in the country. The Vice-Chairman of the Milan Urban Economic Committee then tries to return the size of the supported biomass heating plants back to the electric power of 7.5 megawatt. The ERÚ smuggled a reduction in the limit to 5 megawatts into the novel. The State would have been in conflict with five power plants operators who would have lost their support to reduce the limit. The entire Economic Committee proposes to mitigate the conditions for renewable resources at the approval stage. The acquisition of an operating subsidy should no longer be conditional on the completion of the construction by December of this year, the key date will be the start of the territorial procedure. In practice, it will be possible to complete the prepared projects in 2017. [[9.40 hours]] As far as renewables are concerned, so far, most attention has been drawn to the proposal to divide or merge solar power plants. The Energy Regulatory Authority warned about the special-purpose division so that the owners of the equipment completed in 2010 would avoid paying the withholding tax. Investors could hypothetically avoid taxation if divided power plants had a power output of up to 30 kilowatts. According to experts, the special-purpose division of power plants cannot be considered as realistic. "In practice, the distribution of 1 MW photovoltaic power plants would mean the construction of 33 new trailers. Such an investment makes no economic sense," said Martin Sedlák of the Alliance for Energy Self-sufficiency. Finally, the hypothetical risk has been eliminated by Members themselves and added an insurance policy that division does not eliminate the obligation to pay withholding tax. The Energy Act is now heading to the final third reading. The first possible time he could get on the agenda is today, which he did. The aprílový date seems to be completely optimal in view of the current process of approving the amendment. And I believe, colleagues, that today we will not give citizens of the Czech Republic an April prank. I'm continuing with another quote from Minister Mládek. This should not be decided by the Energy Regulatory Office to which it relates, but by the legislature. So please, let us not take this away and let us not be manipulated by officials who obviously exceed their competence, with which I completely agree that we Members in the Chamber of Deputies will decide. I will also quote the President of the ERO: Unfortunately, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has repeatedly been wrong about the impact of the amendment on prices in the past and the result is the cost for the state budget and all citizens of the amount of one trillion crowns. The Czech economy cannot afford another equivalent of a solar boom. Let us really bear in mind that we are still struggling with the effects of the original law after the unfortunate experiences of approval. The amendment to the Energy Act is supposed to have such a financial impact according to ERU estimates. The Ministry of Industry and Energy Enterprises consider this estimate pointless. If the proposed energy law is approved, the Czech Republic will face the risk of sanctioning proceedings. The key is the last passage entitled: What does the amendment to the Energy Act bring? 1. Those interested in installing a small power plant up to 10 kilowatts, typically solar panels on the roof of the house, will not need a license to produce electricity. 2. The contribution to green energy will not only be derived from the level of consumption, but also from the number and size of breakers for small customers or the maximum level of collection for large customers. 3. Contracts concluded via the Internet or by door-to-door dealers may be terminated without penalties within 15 days of the start of the energy supply. 4. Suppliers will have to inform their customers of any intention to change the terms and conditions and to draw their attention to the right to withdraw in case of disagreement with the change. 5. The rules for the financing of renewable resources will be amended. For example, a surcharge for the production of electricity from decentralised sources will end. 6. The ERU Energy Regulatory Office will have to take account of the financial stability of electricity and gas distributors when establishing regulated prices. 7. The ERU's five-member board is to be formed, which will lead to restrictions on the powers of the President of the Office. This will probably not happen until August 2017, when the mandate of Alena Vitásková ends. 8. The control activity in the field of supported energy sources is transferred from the State Energy Inspection to the ERU. 9. Most of the changes should have been effective from 1 July 2015. The Economic Committee is now proposing a shift to January 2016. I will now stop at the various arguments as an editor, from whose materials I quoted, as well as the Minister, Ministry and Member Urban. First, the Energy Regulatory Office argued with billions of price impacts that it couldn't explain, our MPs were supposed to be wrapped around their finger, everything is just a storm in a glass of water. I do not understand these arguments and I consider them offensive. We have held a number of seminars in the Chamber of Deputies on the subject of the Energy Act, we have been actively interested in this topic for almost six months, and so far the petitioner has never given us a solid response to the ERÚ, which communicates with us and presents clear calculations, arguments or facts. Just over my thumb, I figured out what the ERÚ came up with, what the editor didn't take into account in his article, and what my colleague Gabal was ignoring. For one thing, it was a material burden, which was actually just blocked out and where the deadline for their registration was actually blocked by the end of 2015. Yeah, there's some kind of effort here to deal with this. As I have already asked the chairman of the Economic Committee today, negotiations are under way with the cadastral authority, but at the moment everything is only at the stage of reflection, negotiation, consideration of possibilities. At this point, when the law is finally to be passed, it is not quite clear, or at all, how this problem will be dealt with in the future. So the problem remains and has no deadlines. I hear it's going to work out. The Czech Gas Union has confirmed the threat of impacts to prices of up to CZK 20 billion and I am counting this amount. Again, there is information that this matter is, I stress, only in the solution at this time. For electricity and heat, the amount will be at least the same, rather much higher - but I will stay grounded. We're already at 40 billion crowns. The Ministry has admitted this and has given an amendment at least to delete the deadline, and the Chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr Pilný, wants to deal with the Director of the Land Register, I think, by amending another law, which I was just talking about. Another problem with the financial impact is the change in the payment of photovoltaic power plants to help reduce payments to large enterprises, where the Ministry of Industry and Trade also says that it is CZK 3 billion. The problem is that it will be the support of industry for about 17 years, i.e. it is necessary to count on the overall impact of at least 50 billion crowns. We are at about 90 billion crowns, which the Ministry has also admitted, and we haven't even started yet. Then we have hundreds of millions of crowns for individual energy traders and distributors, which are costs related to changes in the system due to payment to renewable sources. So we're talking about billions of crowns again. The ERU Council of another 86 million a year, i.e. additional units of billions of crowns during its - certainly wonderful - operation. So we're just a rough estimate on about 100 billion crowns. I would add other costs associated with confusion on the market, the threat of payments for financial instability of regulated entities, which no one can count, and others and others. Support to unduly damaged solarians who receive unfairly lower support would be over CZK 6 billion. Another billion in the merry-go-round will mean Net4Gas' unhappy financial situation, as the ERO will have to pay attention to its financial stability according to the Ekonom article. The company has 90 percent debt and owes tens of billions of crowns, which we will probably all have to pay. Only now we are on 150 billion with a reserve, but of course Minister Mládek will defend himself that this is not the way to count. But that's exactly how it has to be counted. [[9.50 hours]] I'd like to stop by Net4Gas for a moment, where I've provided information that we've obtained that the company has 90 percent debt. And I think that it is on a separate point in the negotiations and that the Chamber of Deputies should address this problem. The above calculations. Even if this were not the case, the Energy Regulatory Authority has always come to point out a problem. At first, the Ministry blew him off, then came up with an amendment to prevent this mess, but never quite. And the most obvious thing is the division of solar power plants. Now with the amendment, which in the quoted article, Mr Tramba, in his comprehensive article on arguments on water, has somehow forgotten and has a fundamental impact not only on economic but also on political lobbying in its beauty. The amendment I am referring to is the number A109 and in today's vote: in Section 14 of Article XVI, the following paragraph 27a is inserted after point 27a, which reads: Paragraph 7 shall be inserted after paragraph 7. (2) the following paragraph 3 is added: (a) the change of the owner of the production shall not be considered to be a new entry into service; (b) the change of the method or place of connection of the production to the electricity system without any change in its location; (c) the merger of two or more production facilities into one or (d) the division of the production plant into several production plants. [[Section 7 (b) 3]] In the case of a letter. (c) the date of entry into service of the merged electricity production plants shall always be considered as the date of entry into service of the last of the combined production plants. The current paragraphs 3 and subsequent shall be renumbered. The reasons given by the Member and the rapporteur, Urbano, were as follows: The date of entry into service of the production plant is primarily due to me. to obtain a licence to produce electricity from the electricity producer, which is logical in the case of the first producer at the power plant. The problem now arises at a time when there are changes within the electricity plant that cannot be considered as reconstruction or modernisation. This is a situation where the Act on Supported Energy Sources clearly refers to the connection with the new entry into service of the power plant, as there are technical changes within the power plant, which, however, change completely or at least in part its components and, on the basis of that, the parameters but are linked to the change of the licence. It is therefore necessary to explicitly list these cases in the Act on Supported Energy Resources and to lay down clear rules for them on putting the plant into service so that it cannot, for example, be able to do so by the parties. the control authority shall have an unclear interpretation. Since this is a situation where the nature and technical equipment of the production plant remain the same, therefore there are no improvements in the production plant's technical parameters including, for example, performance improvements, the original date of commissioning of the production plant must also be maintained. End of quote from the reporter Urbana. Basically, it means that solar power plants can be deliberately divided, which would be an impact on the state budget of about 2 billion. crowns a year. For 17 years of support up to 35 billion. Crowns. The Ministry once again mocked it, but nevertheless prepared an amendment to the amendment - yes, I was right. Instead of withdrawing the proposal from Mr Urban, the officials prepared a patch for him. But neither did she in my opinion. Under the number N20, we can read that in paragraph 109 of the Economic Committee's resolution, he finally added the sentence: If, in the case of point (d), the distribution of the production plant covered by the solar electricity levy under Title IV applies to all production plants which have been produced by the distribution of production. That means one thing. Motivation for special-purpose division will remain, but solar money will no longer be 2 billion. per year, but by "estimated" about 150 to 200 miles. CZK annually, i.e. about 2 to 3 billion overall. koruna in estimate. I do not consider it a trifle, and I ask Mr Urban why he has tabled this proposal. Why is he refusing to download it? Why didn't he vote on him when he was so close to him? Then why didn't he justify it in plenary? Is he ashamed of him? And I expect that the justification for this division of power plants, which has been reduced, the tax advantage, will be here today and we will be able to make a real decision on it. There's no way I recommend it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech provoked Mr Adamec to make a point of fact, so he has two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I think we'll be here from dawn to dusk tonight, but that's true. I'd like to remind you that the law doesn't come by the third reading that it's already there. However, I have one thing to say. I criticized the economic committee, which I Vice-President, just how the bill was presented, in the sense that actually two state institutions were unable to find a common word and transferred the dispute to the premises of the House and the Economic Committee. That's what I think is the basis of the problem. And in the future, I would like to see no more such situations happen, because there is nothing more embarrassing than two representatives of the state arguing among themselves and using the third one, of course, to promote political interests. I think this is unfortunately a sad matter for this bill, which currently has 323 amendments in this form. It is not at all simple, it is necessary for Czech society. And I'm terribly sorry that it came to this level, because if the unity of prosecutors were, we could have saved ourselves a lot of useless words. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The rapporteur, with a factual point. Isn't that right? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u8	That's right. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, it is certainly beneficial for politicians to talk about it often. However, to use it for obstruction, I don't think it's entirely optimal. I mean, in his speech, the previous speaker said "Member Urban or Vice-President Urban" about 40 times. And if you multiply it by time, then he could have spoken something wiser. So I am calling on other speakers not to invade by calling or talking about Mr Urban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u9	Thank you. I don't register any more factual remarks. Mr. Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the opportunity and for being able to respond to my previous speaker. I can assure him that the word or the name Urban will not sound once in my speech. On the other hand, I must point out that I will probably not be as brief as my colleague Fiedler. I will address individual amendments as they are tabled, and I will say the reasons why we would not vote for them in the form in which they are. Settle down. We won't be here for a very short time. Point A1. In the first section of Section 2 (b) of the Guidelines, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and on the Functioning of the Functioning of the European Union, and on the Functioning of the European Union, and on the Functioning of the Functioning of the European Union, and on the Functioning of the European Union, and on This point was not recommended by the Legislative Council of the Government, because this point is against the protection and spirit of the law. [[10.00 hours]] Point A2. In the first part of point 10 of Section 2 of the Art. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) point 12 shall be inserted after the words "gas installations" the words "gas connections not owned by the distribution system operator." This point is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority due to an erroneous definition. Point A3. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: Point 14 of points 28 to 30 is replaced by the following: "28th gas transport service providing gas transport through the transmission system, including activities related to the security of reliable and safe operation of the transmission system, 29th distribution system provision by the distribution system, including activities related to the security of reliable and safe operation of the distribution system, 30th gas storage service, including activities related to the security of reliable and safe operation of the gas system by the gas storage tank operator in the gas storage tank operated by it'. This point is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority because this definition is completely redundant. Point A7. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: Point 45 I shall read: "In Section 9, the sentences are added at the end of paragraph 1 "The obligation to submit documents and to apply for a change according to the previous sentence shall not apply to changes already registered in the basic registers and to new energy installations of the transmission system operator, transmission system operator, distribution system operator and heat distribution licence holder established within the territory in which the relevant energy installation operator holds the corresponding licence. The transmission system operator, the transmission system operator, the distribution system operator and the heat energy distribution licence holder shall notify, by 30 April at the latest, to the Energy Regulatory Authority, the aggregated changes to the energy equipment operated by it in the previous calendar year for the newly built energy installations, the energy equipment acquired or the energy equipment which has ceased to be used for its licensed activity, including the energy equipment removed in their designated territories. The Energy Regulatory Authority shall, on the basis of the amendments made pursuant to the previous sentence, initiate the procedure for the amendment of the licence ex officio.". This item is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority - non-systemic and difficult to implement is the reason why the ERU refused. I'll get back to the beginning. It was said from the colleague here that this is obstruction. As you can see, obstruction is not involved. We're talking about every point so we know what we're voting on. And I think it is absolutely essential that we discuss it and discuss it. Well, then... Point A14. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: I point 80 reads: "The following Section 15a is inserted after Section 15b, including the heading: "§ 15b Obligation to store data reported to the Agency. Where a market participant has a market share as referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of The Regulation on the wholesale energy market is required to notify the Agency of transactions in wholesale energy markets, it is obliged to keep records of transactions notified under Implementing Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2 and 6 Regulation on the wholesale energy market for a period of 3 years from the date of the transaction or from the date of acceptance of the intention to carry out the transaction.'; This item is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. This is a restriction on the ER's competence against European Union directives. That's what I want to point out. This is a point that is against the directive of the European Union, which is a de facto fundamental argument why we should adopt an energy law. In addition, point A17. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: Point 88 I shall read: "Art. 17, par. 7 point (e) shall read: " (e) on a customer's proposal in the capacity of a consumer collecting electricity, gas or thermal energy for household consumption or a customer who is a natural person in business, the dispute between the customer and the holder of the licence shall decide on the fulfilment of the obligations arising from contracts for the supply or distribution of electricity, gas or heat energy, 2. determining whether the legal relationship between the customer and the holder of the licence for which the supply or distribution of electricity, gas or heat energy is subject has been established, maintained or ceased, and when it has happened." This item is not recommended by the Legislative Council of the Government and the ERO as a non-systemic provision. Point A18. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: I. 89 reads: "In § 17 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (f) "electronics and gas" is replaced by "energy sectors."". This item is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as non-systemic. Point A20. In the first part of § 17b para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the term "function" shall be replaced by a semicolon and the following text shall be added: "The practice in the field of energy shall be regarded as a permanent activity in the production, transmission, transport, distribution, distribution, distribution or supply of electricity, gas or heat, activities in the field of electricity, gas or heat, or activities in the public authorities and market operators in those fields." This item is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as an excess requirement. Point A21. In the first part of § 17b para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) the word "Council" shall be replaced by a comma and the following point (f) shall be added: " (f) shall be a recognised and experienced person in the field of energy." Not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as a completely vague provision. I believe you will all acknowledge that, because this definition is very strange. Point A22. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: Point 102 I shall read: "In Paragraph 17d, paragraphs 3 to 6 shall read: " ((2) The rate of charge in the electricity sector is determined by the government by its regulation to cover the costs of the Energy Regulatory Authority's activities and to be at least CZK 1.70 per month and CZK 2.50 per month for each demand point of the electricity collector customer. (3) The rate of the gas charge is determined by the Government by its regulation to cover the costs of the Energy Regulatory Authority's activities and to be at least CZK 1/MWh and not more than CZK 1,40/MWh for the amount of gas consumed. (4) The annual amount of the fee shall be determined as a multiple of the rate referred to in paragraph 2 and the total number of demand points for electricity customers for the electricity sector and as a multiple of the rate referred to in paragraph 3 and the total gas consumption for the gas sector, as indicated at 31. 12. transmitted to the market operator's system operator in the Czech Republic for the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the draft budget chapter is drawn up by the Energy Regulatory Authority for the following financial year, for which electricity market participants and gas market participants pay the price for the clearing of the market operator in accordance with the price rules. (5) The total number of customer demand points collecting electricity and the total amount of gas consumed in the Czech Republic pursuant to paragraph 4 shall be published by the Energy Regulatory Authority by 30 June of the calendar year in the form of a communication in the Collection of Laws. (6) During the year, the market operator is obliged to pay a fee for the revenue account of the State budget by the tenth day of the calendar month at the rate of one twelfth of the annual fee fixed in accordance with paragraph 3. The difference between the revenue and the cost of the fee in a given year shall be taken into account by the market operator when creating the price for the activity of the market operator.'; Paragraph 6 shall be amended to paragraph 7. This item is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as a non-systemic change. As you can see, there are quite a lot of points that are not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority or the Government's Legislative Council and we should think about it. And I'm glad we're here in so many numbers that we can really think about it. But let's continue. Point A26. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: In point 105, in the newly completed paragraph 8, "6 months' is replaced by "16 months', "30 days' is replaced by "60 days' and in the newly completed paragraph 9, "15 days' is replaced by "60 days'. This point is also not recommended, surprisingly, by the Energy Regulatory Authority, because these deadlines are completely inappropriate. [[10.10 hours]] Point A27. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: In point 105, the following paragraph 12 is added: " [[12]] The Energy Regulatory Authority shall issue the price decisions issued pursuant to this Act, with the exception of substantially regulated heat energy prices, by 30 November of the preceding year at the latest, for which the price decision provides for regulated prices by the Energy Regulatory Authority. Price decisions relating to factually regulated prices of thermal energy and regulated prices pursuant to Act 165/2012 Coll., on supported energy sources and amending certain laws, the Energy Regulatory Authority is obliged to issue by 30 September of the year preceding for which the price decision sets regulated prices by the Energy Regulatory Authority." This item is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority because this provision is completely unrealistic. Point A28. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The word "Council' and in Section 17f (1) shall be inserted after the word "President'. The word "Council' shall be inserted after the word "Presidents'. A29. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: Article 1 (1) [[Article 18 (1) (a) The amount to be reported in column 060 of ……]] A30. In the first part of Section 18, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 4. "which is simultaneously proof of their mandate to carry out the check" shall be deleted. This point, or three points, is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as a non-systemic provision. Point A31 - we're running out of time. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: Point 114 (1) is replaced by the following: "In Section 18, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 is read: " (6) The time limit for the handling of the objections of a controlled person against the control protocol by the controller shall be 30 days and, in particularly complex cases, 60 days from the date of their receipt." Again, the Energy Institute is not recommended as a non-systemic measure. Point A32. In the first part of Section 18, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 1 is read: "Where the Energy Regulatory Authority conducts investigations on the electricity or gas market, a market participant in electricity or gas, a natural or legal person whose business involves the performance of propane, butane and their mixtures, and a market participant under the Energy Wholesale Market Regulation shall be obliged to submit to the investigation of the Energy Regulatory Authority in commercial premises.' This item is also not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as a non-systemic measure. I'll go back to what my previous speaker said. There really is a fight going on between the Ministry and the Energy Regulatory Office. And I think it is our moral duty to deal with this struggle and this discrepancy, why one state organisation has such a problem with the opinions of another state organisation. It's very strange and listen to other reasons I think it is. Point A33. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: "The following paragraphs 2 and 3 are inserted after paragraph 1 of Section 19a: " ((2) The price of the related electricity service shall be the price of the transmission system service or distribution system service, which shall include the price for system services, the price for the activity of the market operator including the fee for the activity of the Energy Regulatory Authority and the component of the price for the promotion of electricity from supported energy sources under the Energy Supported Sources Act. (3) The price of the related gas service shall be the price of the gas transport service or distribution system service, which shall include the price for the activity of the market operator, including the fee for the activity of the Energy Regulatory Authority.'; The existing paragraphs 2 to 5 shall be referred to as paragraphs 4 to 7. Not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as a legislatively inappropriate demonstrative definition. A34. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: The following point shall be inserted after point 119: "x Paragraph 19a (4) shall read: " (4) The Energy Regulatory Authority shall proceed mutatis mutandis pursuant to paragraph 4. 1 the first sentence when regulating the price of thermal energy in kind. The relevant adjustment to the price of thermal energy shall not apply to the price setting below the limit price set by the Energy Regulatory Authority by implementing legislation. When setting the limit price in accordance with the second sentence, account shall be taken of the full costs, including the costs of foreign and equity of a competing heating source having a consistent or similar impact on the environment.'; This item is again not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as a non-systemic provision. Attention, non-systemic! A37. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: The following point shall be inserted after point 133: "x In Article 20a, at the end of paragraph 4, the dot is replaced by a comma and the following point (z) is added: " (z) to market participants who, pursuant to Article 8 of the Regulation on the wholesale energy market, have an obligation to notify the Agency of transactions in wholesale energy markets, to provide, on the basis of a contract, data from the records of their commercial transactions, including orders from trading, at the latest at the date of the reporting obligation under the Regulation on the wholesale energy market.'; I'm sorry, maybe I'll ask my colleague Lank if he can get me something to eat, those points are really a lot, it's a complicated prescription.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u11	I'm going to ask my colleague Lank to bring you something for refreshment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u12	Thank you for letting me refresh myself in the middle of the President. It's really difficult, Mr. Colleague, the quotes are really too much, both up and down. Now I'm a little lost, which is why I'm going back to point A37. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 1 the following point shall be inserted after point 133: [[There are voices from the hall that this point has already been read.]] So we're going to move on to point A43 because the previous one was rejected by the Energy Regulatory Authority on the grounds that this was an excess clause. A43. In the first part of § 24a para. 6 shall read: " (6) Another right under paragraphs 2 and 3 shall mean the right to exercise voting rights in a company, ownership of participating securities whose aggregate nominal or book value exceeds 50 per cent of the company's capital, the right to appoint, vote or otherwise appoint and recall members of the Supervisory Board or Management Board, members of the statutory body or members of another body of the company designated by the statutes, other similar law, the exercise of which creates a substantial conflict of interest between the operation of the transmission system and the production of electricity or gas or trade in electricity or gas." This point is - beware! - not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. And why is that? This point is contrary to EU law. Watch it! Point 44. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: The following point shall be inserted after point 171: "x In Article 25, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In point (b), "and for captive use' is deleted.' Not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority because this provision is non-systemic. [[10.20 hours]] A45. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: I point [[Section 25, par. 8]] Not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. Maybe I'll speed things up a little bit so we can really talk about it all in time. A50. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions "In Section 28, at the end of paragraph 1, the period is replaced by a comma and the following points (f) and (g) are added: " (f) offer and provide support services to ensure the operation of the electricity system under the conditions laid down in the rules governing the operation of the transmission system or the rules governing the operation of the distribution system; (g) provide and settle electricity to another person collected by the customer through its own or operated demand facility with a voltage of up to and including 52 kV.';". Not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as non-systemic. A56. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: I point This cancellation is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. Point A59. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: I point [[Paragraph 58 (a) is replaced by ……]] Not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. Point A64. In the first part of Section 58n, paragraph 6 reads: " (6) Other rights referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 shall mean: (a) the right to exercise voting rights in the company; (b) ownership of participating securities whose aggregate nominal or book value exceeds 50 per cent of the company's capital; (c) the right to appoint, vote or otherwise appoint and recall members of the Supervisory Board or Management Board, members of the statutory body or members of another body of the company designated by the statutes; (d) other similar law, the exercise of which creates a significant conflict of interest between the operation of the transmission system and the production of electricity or gas or the trade in electricity or gas.". This item is also not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. - I'm sorry. [[The speaker has had a drink.]] Point 65. A65, I'm stressing. We've got a lot of letters ahead of us. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions " ((3) Where the owner or user of the property was a result of the exercise of the rights of the distribution system operator pursuant to paragraph 1 (a). (e) to (i) limited in the normal use of the property or in the form of damage to the property, has the right to appropriate one-off compensation. The right to compensation under the first sentence may be exercised with the distribution system operator within 2 years of the date on which the restriction or injury occurred, otherwise the right shall cease.". Point A66. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: I points 308 and 309 are Thus, points A65 and 66 are not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. Point A67. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions "In Section 59, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 8 (d) shall read: (d) attach to the distribution system any person who so requests and meets the specified conditions and notify the date on which the requests for connection to the distribution system can be met; if the connection is not possible for reasons on the part of the distribution system operator, notify the applicant of the reasons for the impossibility of connection';". However, this proposal is surprisingly not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority, because this provision is logically inconsistent. Point A86. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions "In Article 77 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 1 the words "heat energy" and "heat source" shall be inserted after the word "buyer." I'm sorry, I missed the quotes, so one more time: "In § 77 para. 1 the words "heat energy" shall be inserted after the word "coacher" and the words "heat sources" shall be replaced by the words "heat energy sources."". A87. In paragraph 393, paragraph 77 is replaced by the following: In the first sentence of the first sentence, the word 'their' is replaced by 'their'. There's a long "i." Watch out for the change! A88. Point 394 is replaced by the following: "In Article 77 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The words "including the removal of a heat connection or transmission station' shall be inserted between the words "installation' and "refund'.". This point, respectively. These three points are not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority, which is already striking, my friends, you must all acknowledge. A90. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions "Section 78 (5) reads: (5) In the case of a common supply of heat energy to multiple demand points, the supplier of heat energy is obliged to provide data from specified meters pursuant to the Metrology Act or data from equipment for the distribution of heating costs and other data necessary for the distribution of heating costs and the supply of hot water."". Not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority as a non-systemic measure. A94. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions "422. In Article 90, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The following shall be inserted after the words "or (x) ': "or paragraph 2 (x). (c) ', "2' is replaced by "3' and at the end of paragraph 4, the sentence "For the offence referred to in paragraph 2 (a) shall be added. (a), (b), (d) to (h) a fine of up to CZK 50,000 shall be imposed. For the offence referred to in paragraph 2 (a). (i) and (j) a fine of up to CZK 1 000 000 shall be imposed.". I consider it essential that this point is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority, because these sanctions are completely inadequate in our Czech market. Let us remember how much money has already departed in this direction. I think that where prevention has not helped, repression must help, and these sanctions are really very low. Point A100. In Part 1 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions "In § 98a para. (f) the way prices are regulated in energy sectors, the procedures for price control and deadlines and the scope of data transmitted to the licence holder for price decisions, the establishment of a price limit price guide in kind in the heating sector, the preparation and implementation of energy efficiency improvement programmes, the promotion and monitoring of energy services and other energy efficiency improvement measures'.". Not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. Why? This term used in this paragraph is the term limit price. He's completely unclear. Point A101. In the first part of point 473 in § 98a (b) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) "11. the composition of the price of the transmission system service, the composition of the price of the distribution system service and other regulated electricity prices and the manner and dates of transmission of data between electricity market participants for billing of regulated prices and the method and timing of accounting and payment of regulated prices between electricity market participants'; Not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority, because these are completely unclear new terms. Point A102. That's where the problem will be very similar. I will warn you in advance, I will reveal a little bit of the plot of this paragraph, but here too these are unclear new terms. [[10.30 hours]] Point A102. In the first part of point 477 in § 98a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) point 12 shall read: "12. the composition of the price of the gas transport service, the composition of the price of the distribution system service and the other regulated gas prices, and the method and dates of transmission of the data between gas market participants for the billing of regulated prices and the method and timing of accounting and payment of regulated prices between gas market participants"; As I said at the beginning, unclear new deadlines, not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. A110. In Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall "28. In Article 7, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 is read: "The producer who uses biomass, biogas or biogas fuel for the production of electricity shall be obliged to keep documents and records of the fuel used for a period of 5 years and make it available to the Office, the Ministry and the market operator upon request.'". The reason for not recommending the Energy Regulatory Authority is that there will be limited archiving obligations, which I believe we all feel is a great shame. A111. In Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: The following shall be added to point 39 (1) and (3): "39. Article 11a (1) and (3) shall read: " ((1) The manufacturer is obliged to measure on his load (a) the place of collection of the technological own consumption of electricity produced separately from each type of renewable source or from a secondary source determined by a gauge pursuant to the Metrology Act; or (b) before the point of collection produced by the technological own consumption of electricity produced separately from each type of renewable source or secondary source, as well as to measure separately the technological own consumption of electricity established by the Metrology Act. The obligation referred to in the previous sentence under points (a) and (b) shall not apply to cases where measurements are provided by the transmission system operator or the distribution system operator or where the manufacturer calculates the amount of electricity produced from renewable sources or secondary sources referred to in paragraph 4. Measurement of the technological own electricity consumption is not required for power generation with installed power up to and including 10 kW. (3) The producer of electricity from high-performance cogeneration shall measure the amount of electricity produced on the terminals of the generator, useful heat and fuel consumed in the range and manner specified in the implementing legislation.';". Due to the limitation of the obligations to measure electricity produced, this point is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. [[The speaker drinks.]] I'm sorry. Now that I've replenished the energy and fluids, I can continue after this brief introduction. A112. In Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: XVI, paragraph 39 of Section 11a, paragraph 6 is deleted; paragraphs 7 to 10 are renumbered to paragraphs 6 to 9, and paragraph 5 is - I believe this is very important, I want you to listen to me - paragraph 5 reads as follows: " ((5) The manufacturer is also obliged to: (a) maintain and operate the measuring equipment referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 with a valid verification under the Metrology Act; (b) refrain from any unauthorised interference to prevent unauthorised tampering or to the measuring equipment referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 or to its component or accessories.". I consider it essential information that this point is also not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority because it limits the obligation to provide meters against unauthorised manipulation. And watch it, we're trying to stop it! Again, I'm sorry. [[He wipes his face.]] A113. In Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: Section XVI, point 39 of Section 11a, paragraph 10 is " [[10]] In the case of FIT support, the transmission system operator or the distribution system operator shall transmit to the market operator, by electronic means, the full and true measured values at the transmission point of connection of the power plant to the transmission system or distribution system operated. The method, scope and date of transmission and registration of measured values of electricity from renewable sources using the form of support for the purchase price shall be laid down in the implementing legislation.". This proposal, respectively. This point is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority because this adjustment is non-systemic. And 119. I'm sorry, but I forgot to say all the quotes downstairs and the quotes upstairs, and now I don't know if you got it right, but I'm gonna try to continue. [[Notes from the O.R.]] No, I'll continue to get to the important one. Point A119. [[O.R. plates.]] No, we're really farther away. Point A119. In Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: XVI point 54 - I am very pleased to communicate with Mr Urban. He says that he writes everything, through the President, and I am glad for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u13	I would like you to communicate with both Mr Urban and Mr Urban only through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u14	Through your - I appreciate it and I am glad that we will discuss every single point, because this issue is very complex. But in order not to get involved in such communication, I repeat, point A119. In Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: In point 54, at the end of the sentence after the words "in the amount of CZK 50/GJ', the period is deleted and the words "with a regular annual increase of 2 per cent.". The item is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority because the indexing of the green bonus is non-systemic. A120. In Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall "61. Paragraph 27 (3) reads: " (3) Heat manufacturer is obliged to ensure measurement (a) the heat supplied to the heat distribution plant of the thermal energy supply system in the case of aid pursuant to Section 24 (2) (a) shall be: 3; or (b) useful heat in the case of aid pursuant to § 24 para. Article 3 is replaced by the following:". We limit the measurement obligations. For this reason, this point is again not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. A121. In Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: In point 68 of Section 27, paragraph 9 is deleted; paragraph 10 is renumbered to paragraph 9 and paragraph 8 is replaced by the following: " ((8) The heat manufacturer is also obliged to: (a) maintain and operate a gauge with valid verification under the Metrology Act; (b) refrain from any unauthorised interference to prevent unauthorised tampering or to the measuring equipment or to its component or accessories.". As before, at this point, we limit the obligation to measure the heat produced. Look out! This point, as I have learned, is a point not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. A122. In Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: XVI - it is common - paragraph 69 - this time - in Section 28, paragraph 5, including the footnote reads: " ((5) For the invoiced period, the price component of the distribution system service or the transmission system price component shall be paid for the product of the unit component of the price of the distribution system service or of the unit component of the price of the transmission system service determined by the Authority and the size of the reserved power input at the demand or transmission point or, in the case of low voltage electricity, the nominal current value of the main circuit breaker before the electricity meter referred to in paragraph 4. The maximum payment for the price component of the distribution system service and the price component of the transmission system service in support of electricity for the demand or transfer point for the invoiced period shall be determined by the product of the amount of CZK 495/MWh and the total amount of electricity collected from the transmission system or distribution system at the demand or transfer point for the invoiced period. [[10.40 hours]] This total quantity shall not include the amount of electricity consumed by pumping power plants consumed by the customer 24) in island operations within the territory of the Czech Republic, which is clearly separated from the electricity system, supplied abroad via the distribution system and the amount of electricity consumed for technological own consumption of electricity for electricity generation or for electricity and heat production or consumed by the transmission system operator and the distribution system operator for losses in the transmission system or distribution system operated by it. insular operation in the territory of the Czech Republic, clearly separated from the electricity system, supplied abroad via the distribution system and the amount of electricity consumed for technological own electricity consumption, for electricity generation or for electricity and heat generation or consumed by the transmission system operator and the distribution system operator for losses in the transmission system or distribution system operated by it. Point 24) of Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) Article 4 (1) (a) (a) points 17 and 28 of Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act." This point, like many others, is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority, because this provision, my friends, is completely unrealistic to 1. 1. 2016. I'm sorry, dear friends, but I understand that the information you're getting is more than enough, and I want you to have the space to absorb it, so let us take it as an introduction to the issue. This is not a complex issue of energy law. I mean, I'm gonna interrupt my speech for a second, virtually. I will join the debate later, so that you can absorb this basic information, and then we will get to even more detailed points, because this is absolutely essential. Thank you and goodbye for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u15	I thank my colleague Adam for very thorough information. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Urban, following him with priority rights, Mr Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am listening carefully to the suggestions and comments made by Mr Adam, who I would like to ask him about some of his performances, if he could explain it better. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 16 I § 27 para. 3, where we talk about measuring supplied heat, useful heat. He stated here that in this paragraph there is a reduction in the measurement of heat and that therefore it is not recommended by the Energy Regulatory Authority. If only he'd been kind enough to elaborate on his point. I mean, when I think about it, I'm not fully aware of the situation where the heat measurement would be reduced. So I very kindly ask my colleague to explain this to me - and possibly to other colleagues who are interested - more carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u17	prosit Marek Černoch, Member of the Dawn Assembly, with priority right now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. As you can see, interest in information is. I'm glad this debate is going on that we're trying to convince ourselves that it's wrong to just vote blindly on the law when there are such serious doubts about the quality and impact of the law. We are having an extensive debate not only here in plenary. Three seminars were held on the subject of the Energy Act. Colleagues Olga Havlová seminar on the competence of the Energy Regulatory Authority, David Kádner on the topic of energy security and now last colleague Petr Adam, who had a seminar on the financial implications of the law. Unfortunately, MEPs' participation was not very broad. You had a chance to learn about the problems, you didn't come, which is a shame. Of course, we'd like to sit there together and say these things one more time. Today, Mr Laštůvka, Vice-President of the ERO responsible for the issue of solar power plants, is present in the Chamber of Deputies, and we would like to invite you to such a seminar by No. 22 here on four, where a few more words would be said about this issue. Therefore, I would like to take a two-hour break for this seminar at the club meeting. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u19	Thank you. That's not April, that's a real procedural proposal. I will, of course, allow you to do so, so please meet me here at 12:45 a.m., and I'm interrupting the House meeting by 12:45 p.m. due to the break of the Dawn MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. We'll continue after the break, just as we agreed. It's 12:45 p.m., two of my note cards arrived. Mr Pavel Čihák apologizes for today's meeting for reasons of employment from 12.30 to 16.30, and Mr Jan Hamáček, President of the Chamber of Deputies, is also in favour of today's meeting for reasons of employment. Today, from 12.40 o'clock, we have set our ballot points firmly, namely poll points 95 to 97 and 132 to 135. I will now ask the President of the Election Commission to take the floor and introduce us to the programme that will now follow. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I believe that, after today's 'fertile' morning, we will now be at least a little more effective in the election and that I will be able to make all the elections dignified, because there are really many, there are seven of them, and that together we will succeed in at least a large part of those electoral points successfully ending and choosing. So now I'm asking you for about 10 minutes of attention, because somewhere we're in the second rounds of the secret election, somewhere we're entering the first rounds, and the choices are different, they're going to go in different ways, so we don't make unnecessary mistakes. Please, Mr President, open the first ballot point. It's point number one. 95.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-002-082.u22	I thank you and open item number 95. It's...
