ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of the revenue of certain taxes to local authorities and certain state funds (the Act on budgetary determination of taxes), as amended (the Parliamentary Press 416/ - first reading) I thank the Minister for staying at the rapporteur's table and Mr Volný for taking his place because he is the rapporteur for first reading. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. As soon as the House calms down, Mr Vice-President, I will give you my word. But I really ask the House for peace! [[Deputy Prime Minister Babiš: Never mind. I don't mind.]] Fellow Members and fellow Members, if you have a debate other than the budgetary determination of taxes, please transfer it to the foyer. You risk not having absolutely an audience in your constituency unless you understand budgetary determination, you all know that. Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's more money for the county, in short. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to increase the percentage by which the regions participate in the return of value added tax to 8,92 %, with effect from 1 January 2016. From a legislative point of view, this will be a change to the provisions of Section 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the Annex No shall remain unchanged. 1 to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, according to which individual regions of the Czech Republic participate in the defined parts of income. The shares of the regions in the tax return were constructed on the basis of the amount of funds for the powers transferred from the busy district authorities or, where applicable, the regional authorities. ministries, within the framework of public administration reform. This increased the share of the regions gradually to 8,92 % by the end of 2011. Since 2012, the shares thus defined have been corrected in relation to the expected effects of the tax measures taken. The regions long-term demand the cancellation of these corrections, respectively. VAT refund to 8,92 per cent. In response to these requirements, an amendment to the Act on Budgetary Determination of Taxes is proposed, which will increase the proportion of regions in VAT revenue to 8,92 % with effect from 1 January 2016. Within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, the regions will receive funds whose use they will be able to decide separately. There will be a substantial increase in the tax revenue of the regions from VAT by less than 8% since 2016. In absolute terms, this is an increase in the tax revenue of the regions by 3.5 billion. Crowns. Financial effects in the following years will depend on the amount of value added tax collection. Finally, I would like to ask you to discuss the draft law in the committees and to approve it, and I am of the opinion that the debate will propose to shorten the deadline for discussing this proper amendment in the committees to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u3	I thank Mr Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš and ask the rapporteur for a first reading of Mr Jan Volný to present a news report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u4	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, I will not delay this. It's a very simple novel. It is a change in the VAT rate to be paid on the edge. I think this is good news for our regions, and please approve this amendment for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u5	I thank the honourable Member, the rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate in which I am the first to sign in to Mrs Věra Kovářová. Mr. Vladislav Vilímec will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u6	Thank you for the floor. Minister, you're right, it could be money for sightseeing. Dear colleagues, the Minister said that this is money for the regions, and I think it would be right for him to say that it is money for the regions, municipalities and cities. There is a bill before us, which is intended to increase revenue to regions only. More precisely, the ratio of the regions to value added tax should be increased from 7,86 per cent to 8,92 per cent. It's not just a formula difference. The success of tax collection will determine whether this will also be a real increase. Unfortunately, according to information coming to me from municipalities, towns and regions, it is limping. That must be said openly. I think the Minister should comment on this issue in the context of the discussion of the proposal. If I want to split something up, I have to have something first. However, I want to make it clear that I am not one of those who would completely reject this proposal. For example, because it comes shortly before the regional elections, although it may remind many of a classic pre-election gift or at least a topic that can be discussed in the election campaign. Even if that were the case, I must say that the political motive is a weaker argument in my eyes than the objective need for regions to strengthen funding. Everyone knows that the county needs money like salt. For example, who will take a road ride in their possession, which more often than we would like, could bear the code name 50 shades of gray. All I'm saying is that the roads and this movie aren't very visible. I want to underline that I consider the very intention of strengthening the financing of the regions to be reasonable. However, it is unclear to me why, together with the regions, there is no increase also in the case of municipalities. The regions as well as the municipalities were reduced the share of the return on value added tax in connection with the implementation of the second pillar of pension reform. We all know the fate of this pillar. The current government simply blew it away. In this case, however, it would seem systematic for municipalities and cities to get their originally planned figures. That is why I want to make an advance announcement that I will put forward an amendment that will address the problem described. I am also going to amend the way in which the funds are allocated to the regions by the amendment. The existing system has survived, is completely unmotivative, unfair, and therefore needs to be reformed. I'm afraid your fast-paced novel is avoiding solutions. [[15.50 hours]] Mr. Secretary, curiosity won't give me any. Can you please answer me why in the amendment prepared by your office, you do not deal with the way in which tax revenues are distributed between regions, which is probably the most pressing problem in this area? And why do you exclude municipalities and cities from the increase, even though their inclusion would be systematic? Thank you. Finally, I would like to express the hope that the only reason for the second of my questions is not that the elections to municipal and municipal councils are already behind us, unlike the regional elections that await us in a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. The words will be taken by Mr Vladislav Vilímec, who is duly entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on Mrs Kovářová. The government proposal that is tabled here, as you know, increases the share of the regions in the collection of value added tax from the current 7,86 percent to the so-called. original 8,92 %. This proposal is submitted by the Minister of Finance and the Government on the basis of an agreement with the regional authorities who have long complained about the reduced collection of VAT tax revenues. However, when we talk about the original share, it is the share that was valid for the regions between 2005 and 2011. The Minister mentioned here more or less in the briefness of the change in the budgetary determination of regional taxes. Two amendments were approved between 2002 and 2011. The first in 2002 and then the regions belonged to 3.1 %, then in 2005 it was the 8.92 %. We all know what happened after an increase in the reduced VAT rate from 10 per cent to 14 per cent in the context of the preparation of the pension reform and the need for a neutral impact on municipal and regional budgets, as well as a reduction in the original share of 8.92 to 8,29 at first and then to the current 7,86 per cent. However, it should also be seen and remembered that, at a reduced rate of 5 per cent and an increased rate of 19 per cent, VAT was at a reduced rate of 5 per cent at the time when the regions' share of VAT increased from 1 January 2005. I don't want to discuss it. Then there were other changes. I merely want to add that, at times when the share of the regions in shared taxes, including value added tax, was set at 8,92 per cent, the percentage rates of VAT were slightly different. On the other hand, I agree with that, and I have always advocated that there should be no percentage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u9	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. If you have a debate other than the budgetary determination of taxes, transfer it to the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u10	I agree with this and I have always advocated that the percentage of the regions and municipalities in tax revenues should not be constantly changed in the context of the development of the rates of one or the shared tax. From this point of view, the demand of the regions is legitimate, however theoretically. If we calculate all tax revenues between 2011 and 2015, we can discuss the reasons for the individual measures. However, I agree to restore the original VAT share to the regions to 8,92 per cent. However, what I do not know in this press, but at all in the Ministry of Finance's approach, and here I am referring to Mrs Kovářová, is at least the beginning of the debate on the unification of the share in the tax revenues of municipalities, as is the case with the regions. In the case of municipalities, the uniting of the share does not count as in the regions. We know well that in the past, there have been two significant changes in municipalities in recent years. One change was in 2007. It was very advantageous for the smallest municipalities. Then, after a long discussion in the last parliamentary term, another amendment, which offset the decline in tax revenues for municipalities and cities in the population of around 1,500 to 10,000, 15 000 inhabitants, actually brought them an increase in tax revenues. At that time, the municipalities, which were in such a graphical representation of the budget allocation in that settlement, helped themselves. But the municipalities over 20-25 thousand have improved very little, and in some cases the change has led to a decline in tax revenues. Now I am not thinking primarily of the four largest cities, which were discussed so much in the media - Prague, Plzeň, Brno and Ostrava - but also other regional cities. These larger cities, when we look at tax revenues such as České Budějovice, Zlina, Pardubice, I have no close relationship with these regional cities, which is why I quote them here, so there you will find that the change was negative for these larger cities. Therefore, if we evaluate changes in municipalities for the budgetary determination of taxes, this cannot be achieved unilaterally and simplisticly, as is, after all, described in the explanatory memorandum. I am stating this for this reason - and I want to ask the Minister of Finance one question. At the meeting of the Working Group on the budgetary determination of taxes, which arose at the Ministry of Finance, it was said that at present the Ministry of Finance does not count or support any increase in the volume of shared taxes. I'd like to ask you what the current time is about. I don't know if it's next year or the entire term. We all know that municipalities are actually after municipal elections at the beginning of the four-year mandate and it is important for them to know, for each mayor it is important to know whether or not there is a political will to take a similar step, as is the case with the regions now. Previous experience, since I have been in this area for a long time as a municipal policy, shows that most of the time there had to be some significant impulse from municipalities or regions in this case in order to move something. Now there's an impulse from the side of the county. The Union of Towns and Municipalities as well as other professional associations of municipalities expect something similar in some historically available time. I think that the debate on this press should also start some preparation of similar changes in the case of municipalities. There is no reason to delay these changes and, if necessary, we can decompose them in time so that the state budget can be better prepared for them. The Minister promises, and he has said this many times, much more effective enforcement of tax obligations. No offense, but we know that the first three months of this year show that converting these words into reality will not be easy at all. That is why the problem of restoring the commune's single share of shared tax revenues cannot just sit back, it cannot be postponed indefinitely. That is why I want to ask again at the end of my speech, and I ask whether the Ministry of Finance is preparing any change in relation to the budgetary determination of taxes, and if Deputy Minister Gregor's mouth has fallen at the meeting of the Commission, that it is currently not preparing what is at the present time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u11	I thank Mr Vladislav Vilímc. We will continue with the debate, where, first with the factual remark of Mr Jan Zahradník, then the duly signed up Mr Kostřica. Mr zahradník has the floor on a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what Mrs Kovářová mentioned here when she suggested to the Minister that he consider redistribution of shared taxes between the regions. I must say with all due respect that I do not consider this proposal to be the best. When you look at the annex one to the explanatory memorandum, you can see that the individual percentages by which the regions participate in shared taxes are six decimal places. It's not just that. 15 years ago, it started out like this, they merged, they added up all the financial flows into the regions, either through the county authorities or in other ways, and that was converted into percentages. It has always resisted everyone's efforts so far, at least I think at the heart of the division, which is why I think that if the Minister wanted to deal with this idea, I would advocate that this intention should first be subjected to a detailed discussion in the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic and that in this sense the view of the regions should be taken behind the coin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u13	Good afternoon. I thank my colleague Zahradník for his point of view. With another factual remark, Mrs Kovářová, then with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. It took many years to change the budgetary determination of taxes, as was the case in the case of municipalities. A number of meetings were held, analyses were carried out, and only then new criteria were established, which were in line with the amendment at that time after 15 years from the effectiveness of the law. And I think that's true in the case of this law. If we want to make systemic adjustments to the regions, it must be a long discussion, supported by analyses, discussions, of course, with the Association of Regions and others, and only then can a systemic solution be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Another duly registered member is Mr Rom Kostřica. Excuse me, Mr. Rapporteur. I'm sorry. With priority rights, the rapporteur, Mr Kostřica. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u16	Colleagues, fellow Members, Mr President, I would like to use this to ask the honourable House to vote on the reduction of the deadline for second reading by 30 days, i.e. to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u17	I thank the rapporteur for his proposal, I note it. Mr Kostřica is now duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u18	Thank you for the floor. I will be very brief, for the very reason that I want to ask only what my previous speaker here, one of the previous speakers, Mr Vilímec, said, whether the Minister is really considering some compensation in the outage that arose during the last budgetary determination of taxes, for the four major cities: Prague, Ostrava, Brno and Plzeň. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u19	I thank Mr Kostřic. Mr Petr Bendl is the last duly applied for so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, let me say a few words about this simple and simple increase in the revenue of the regions from value added tax, or if you want from the taxes that the Czech Republic will collect without the State wanting anything. As a memoir, who was once just in public administration reform when we constructed individual incomes of individual regions, it was always said: this competence is to be state-owned and it has such and such financial resources for it, and so it would be good that this amount of funding, along with this competence, should go to individual regions. I consider this a system solution that simply says: yes, dear regions, take care of high school, the state had so much and so much for it, here you have the funds for it. Or a traffic service: nice regions, here's to the traffic service. That you don't put it on the transport service after all, which is the case with the Central Bohemia Region, where the traffic service was canceled and the money was handed out differently, is a matter of which regional council. This is not the case, of course. This is where the system works: in the coalition we agreed, we will give Social Democrats a present on individual regions, because it happens to be before the elections. In essence, the previous speaker answered herself: If it had been before the municipal elections, it probably would have been there for cities and municipalities. But since he's in front of the county, the finance minister is just rhetorical to say that he's right-wing, but he's basically resigned to whatever, I'll say, some use of these funds. I remember very well when the former governments helped individual regions to provide transport services, to strengthen the finances that went to rail transport. It was about three billion crowns back then, I think. The billions have disappeared. In fact, there was no decisive strengthening of the lines. I think the Minister of Finance is repeating, and this government is making mistakes that are too bad. He should always say: we want this competence from you, dear regions, as the state we renounce it and the funds follow you. I am not opposed to one percent or how much they do it, individual regions are getting funding, but I am sorry that we are not getting into a debate on conceptual functioning towards tax revenues. In the past there was something that worked with such a system: if individual regions are trying to support business activities, they have better conditions, tax collection in individual regions is even higher, there could be some motivation for individual regions to support such activities so that they can calculate the part that they may get something back. That's what happened in the past. And if there were district authorities, the district assembly, on the other hand, had the competence to somehow bail out or help individual or handicapped parts of its district in other areas. This debate is slipping away from us purely in the coalition statement that you have agreed with the Social Democrats - the YES movement that you will give them this. I don't know what for, but I doubt it's free.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u21	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Běhounek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u22	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I assume that a colleague before me, my colleague Bendl, meant a memorandum of three billion. If not, then I'd like him to explain to me what he meant. I will not discuss the memorandum for the regions, nor the fact that roads were to be built for it. With regard to the issue of 8,92 percent, the regions already had that. In some of the years 2012 or 2013, an adjustment was made and now it's back to reality. So please let us tell each other the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u23	I thank Mr Běhounka for his point of view. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for the Minister's final word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, it was indeed an interesting debate. I would like to assure everyone that I am not making the political decision as Mr Bendl has said about this, and I am not doing any social democracy business. Paradoxically, according to the media, social democracy will be the biggest opponent of the ANO movement in the regional elections, so I would have to be completely crazy to record social democracy by raising money into the regions. [[16.10 hours]] I'm doing this because my predecessors made political decisions. Someone took money from the county, and we're returning the money, that's all. And for the first time, we gave the county four billion to fix the roads. Nobody's ever put that in here before. And I'm sure all the citizens, even the towns and villages, are on those roads. The municipalities and cities were adapted on 1 January 2013. That was also Mr Kalousek's political decision, just as his political decision was that he took money from the regions because the ČSSD was there, and he gave the municipalities a reason why. And the municipalities got ten and a half billion as of January 1, 2013. We increased VAT from 19.93 to 20.83, income of natural, legal persons, withholding etc. So it's not true. From the point of view of redistribution between the regions - yes, I must say that Mrs Kovářová is the only opposition Member who has dealt with me since the beginning of this House, and we have successfully done with me what Mr Kalousek did not want to give, money for schools, for capacity, so we have done together. Central Bohemia. Now we're dealing with monuments. And what you're saying is the right thing to do. I just happened to find out about this place. I'm new here, so I'm gradually learning. And I want to look at it, the redistribution between the regions. You know what I heard? You know why Plzeň County isn't in debt? Why did they build the most expensive tram depot in the world and the most expensive theatre? Well, because supposedly there was the largest base of ODS and CSSD and they had wide elbows and they made the best coefficient. So maybe it'd be interesting to look at these regions, how we actually divide it, those regions. Why this is not based on the number of kilometres of roads, schools, hospitals, or objective criteria. So I'm taking it, and we can work together on this, Mrs. Kovářová, and I'd like to take a look at it, because the percentages are useless to me. Because there was some kind of base, and probably somebody boxed it from the way the elbows were there. So much for the split. And as for tax collection, please, I've justified it more than once. We've had a blackout from the pre-supply of tobacco of nearly 17 billion. We have a time shift in relation to VAT refunds, and the budget is evolving as planned, as you approved it, so there is no concern at all to fail. And there have been fluctuations in the past. Of course, since I am the first minister who tries to collect taxes and has to fix the Financial Administration and Customs Administration and everything, so it takes a little bit. But most importantly, we're going in the right direction and we know exactly what to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u25	I thank the Minister for his final word. Now, the rapporteur with his final word, following him with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u26	Colleagues, colleagues, originally I did not want to apply my final word, but after this discussion I will apply it. One thing has been confirmed to me today - that it is not advisable to praise the opposition, especially the opposition on the right hand side. If I am at the last point on which I commended the rapporteur on the fiscal constitution that I liked the debate, that it was critical but factual, I am unpleasantly surprised by the way this debate was going. When I assumed we were coming up with something God-like, something for people, for regions, to improve infrastructure, and I heard, "Why didn't you give more?" And why didn't you split it like that? Why are you doing this - what kind of scoundrel is this again? And you want something for the election. It's just completely incomprehensible. And there's one thing that's coming back to me. The better law or amendment we come to this House, the louder I hear a roar from the right side of the spectrum. I'm convinced when I hear the biggest attack on our novels, I say, "Oh, we've done something good, something beneficial." So just a comment on the development of this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u27	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, with priority rights, Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u28	Thank you. Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer discuss this draft. Just a bitter remark to the Minister of Finance's speech when he spoke of the Pilsen depot and coefficients, please let all of you who have been terrified understand that the Minister of Finance confuses the budgetary determination of taxes for the municipalities and the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions. That was completely out of the way and don't take it seriously. Depo built the city and the coefficient concerns the city of Plzeň and not the regions. The second bitter comment about how unfair the world is. The minister told us that he was the first finance minister to try to collect taxes. Apparently, those guys weren't trying at all. I don't have a reason not to believe him, but then it's so unfair, because all of us, when we look at the efficiency of tax collection in years, all of us who haven't tried, we were pretty good at it. He's trying really hard, but he's not good at it. [[An explosion of laughter in the hall and applause in the right side of the hall.]] Well, perhaps, Minister, if you don't want to try a little less to make it a little better for the public budgets. I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. We will now consider the motion for a committee's order for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. In the context of the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 1 March, I propose that we order the bill to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. No one else has a suggestion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee for this bill. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 152. 168 Members and Members are registered, for 147, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone, please, have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? Please, Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think from the logic of the matter, this material also belongs to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u31	Thank you for this proposal. I'm asking if anyone else has a motion on the commandment to the committees. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on Mr Bendl's proposal that this press be further ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 153. 168 Members and Members are registered, for 147, against none. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this proposal was further directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a further committee for discussion. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u32	Thank you. All I have to do is ask. The Minister of Finance says here why budgeting taxes for the regions is not based on the miles of roads and hospitals and social institutions. Well, it is, isn't it? Somebody try to explain it to him. The relatively pointless numbers, which say the proportion of individual regions, are based on those calculations when the regions were created, when the kilometers of twos and threes were calculated, when the numbers of social institutions, secondary schools, hospitals, etc. were calculated. etc. This is why, for example, the Moravian-Silesian Region or Ústecký, which are undoubtedly structurally disabled, have less money for a citizen than some other regions. But it didn't come out of any political agreement, it came from those. [[unintelligible]] So it is smiling when, after 15 years, the Minister of Finance wakes up and says: We could do it by the miles and social institutions. According to the miles and social institutions, that's already been calculated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-009-020.u33	We will return, however, after the Committees have been ordered to discuss - we will deal with this because in the general debate there was a proposal to shorten the deadline under Section 91, the rapporteur proposed a reduction of the deadline to 30 days. Isn't that right, rapporteur? [[Yes.]] [[16.20 hours]] I will vote on this proposal. So I'm opening the vote on a motion to shorten the deadline to 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 154 vote, 168 Members and Members, for 81, against 34. The motion was not accepted. We've dealt with all the proposals that have fallen. I'm ending reading this bill first. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
