ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and on the Amendment of Some Other Acts, as amended, and Act No. 169/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and on the Amendment of Certain Other Acts, as amended, Act No. 25/2008 Coll., on an integrated register of environmental pollution and an integrated system for fulfilling environmental reporting obligations and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on the roads, as amended /house print 409/ - first reading I ask the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, to present this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, after a brief break again, I promise you, for the last time today, even though I don't know. In any case, the primary reason for submitting this amendment to the Waste Act is to ensure redress in response to infringement proceedings - this is a well-known infringement procedure conducted with the Czech Republic by the European Commission in many other cases concerning the incorrect transposition of the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste. [[16.40 hours]] The proposed bill therefore also responds to the need to transpose certain new European directives into the legislation of the Czech Republic or adapt Czech legislation to the adoption of directly applicable European Union rules. The implementation of two European Union regulations in the field of waste batteries and accumulators must be carried out. This is a transposition of Directive 2013/1956/EU, which consists in particular of a time limit on the validity of exemptions from the prohibition on the placing on the market of certain batteries or accumulators which contain more than permitted amounts of mercury or cadmium. The draft law also provides for adaptation to Commission Regulation No. 493, which lays down detailed rules for calculating the recycling efficiency of the recycling process for waste batteries and accumulators. The proposed adaptation also adapts the Waste Act to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on ship recycling as well as to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Waste Transport Regulation in relation to the requirements for control of shipments of waste. The amendment also provides for adaptation to the Commission Regulation replacing Annex No. 3 of the Waste Directive. And, among other things, the proposed legislation, for which I will certainly be asked, and I can already think of who, in addition to the above, also defines the possible ways, and I have promised it and this is what I am fulfilling, cashless payments for purchased metal waste. This is, of course, a matter and an issue that is now widely defined. You know that the Ministry of the Environment has modified this matter by decree from 1. 3. and we promised that we would use this infringement amendment precisely to adjust possible cash-free payment methods for purchased metal waste. Therefore, it will only be possible to pay for the defined waste through the transfer of funds through the payment service provider or through the postal service operator in the form of a postal voucher. Last but not least, the bill also responds to initiatives from the next stage of updating measures to strengthen competitiveness and business development in the Czech Republic from the perspective of environmental legislation. This was a so-called eco-audit initiated by previous governments in order to define specific provisions in environmental legislation that can simplify the development of business within the Czech Republic and therefore, on the basis of the audit, it is proposed that mineral oils be removed from the range of selected products subject to the recovery obligation. [[There's noise in the room.]] We're coming to a conclusion. If there is a question, and I respond directly to it, whether we could not use the amendment that was being discussed, I remember last year's electronics, as a carrier for all of these infringement changes, then I say in advance that they could not, because some processes were running and we did not yet know whether it would be possible and in what form it would be necessary to implement individual directives into Czech legislation. I answer this in advance to a possible question or rather an objection as to whether it was not possible to use the amendment submitted by the Ministry of the Environment last year. I would also like to say that I am assuming and will do everything I can to ensure that this is the last amendment to the Waste Act, which will be preceded by a completely new waste law, which is currently in the stage of a substantive intention and is being prepared paragrafo, so that the new law can be valid no later than 1 July 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u3	I thank the Minister for his justification. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Josef Nekl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, the Minister has practically exhausted everything that needs to be said about the amendment of the law in his opening speech. After all, I would point out again that this amendment responds to the European Commission's proceedings against our State for infringement or non-compliance with the conditions in the transformation of Directive No 1 of the Council of the European Community. 98/2008 on waste and repealing certain directives within the scope of this Act. In particular, there are definitions, the waste hierarchy, the content of the waste management plan and the definition of how waste is used and disposed of. The Minister spoke of accumulators and batteries, he also talked about ship recycling, so I will not refrain from doing so. By adopting the amendment to this Act, there will be a slight increase in the administrative burden with the issuance of login data into an integrated system of compliance with reporting obligations and control of the waste management plan of the regions. At the same time, there will be consistency between the waste management plans of the regions with the waste management plan of the Czech Republic. During the discussion of this proposal to supplement the law, there were also a number of comments from the Union of Towns and Municipalities and some non-profit organizations. I have information that they have been included in the draft law in some way, and they will certainly still be discussed in determining the guarantee committee. So this is the opening statement on this bill, and I recommend that the bill be passed on to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Josef Nekl. Before I open the general debate, from 16.30 to the end of the day, Minister Karla Šlechtová apologizes on account of the workload. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Jan Zahradník first came forward. After him, MP Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on this proposal, which is once again the result of the well-known inflation needs. Once again, the Union is forcing us to do something fast, fast, fast. I guess that's the way it is. I would like to comment on this for three reasons. The first is the reason relating to Article 2 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation. Article 4 (1) (a) a). This paragraph defines what is actually involved in this law. This applies to the management of all waste except - and there are now several exceptions not covered by this law. Thus, paragraph (a) specifically states that waste waters are exempted to the extent that they are covered by other legislation with reference 61. Link 61 says it's water under the Water and Sewers Act for public use. So waste water, which is not drained by sewers, becomes waste after the adoption of this law. That's a pretty complicated thing to do. This means, firstly, a significant change in the balance of waste produced and also means that sewage treatment plants will be approved as recovery or disposal facilities, which, of course, brings proportional complications to operators or builders of these facilities. The question is, what will happen to the waste water, which, in principle or in what position is the source of the waste water, cannot be drained through the sewerage, i.e. the waste water that is collected in the waste pits. The law seems to have forgotten this thing. The second thing I want to say to this law is, again, Paragraph 2 (2) of the Act. 1 - crossing out the whole text in point (h). There are cuts, i.e. the exemption of extracted sediments from water tanks and watercourses, for which the owner has demonstrated that they comply with the pollution limits for their use for the introduction of groundwater and surface treatment set out in Annex 9 to this Law and sediments from water tanks and watercourses used in the farm soil fund under specific legislation. [[16.50 hours]] This means that these extracted sediments, if authorised to be removed, become waste and will be treated as waste again, i.e. the possibility of their recovery in non-waste mode is abolished. It will not be possible to use them precisely to weigh underground areas, to adjust the surface of the terrain or to use these sediments on the farm soil fund. I guess that's where you mean special legislation - Law No. 156/1998 Coll., on fertilizers, or it will not be possible to use excavated mud as fertilizer in the field, as it has always been done for generations for centuries. So that's the thing I see as flawed at first reading. So we will not propose a law to reject at first reading, of course not, but we will consider whether we will not propose changes at second reading to remove these defects. And the last thing I want to remind you about here is the one-- I don't want to call it an sticker, it's not, it's a waste bill, so somehow the law of cashless payment makes sense. But the Minister has to acknowledge here, and we all have to admit that the decree on cash-free payments in metal collections for scrap metal simply doesn't meet its purpose yet. There are a number of tricks to get around it, starting with the fact that from the collector, or perhaps better said, a metal thief who stole somewhere a copper gutter or a canal shelter, it buys out someone who, as a legal person, takes it to the collection room and cashes in. The thief will then have to process more to improve his financial situation, or what some collections are already doing, that they give some kind of vouchers for the collected collection, which at that time, at that point, are really cash-free payments, but in the moment following in some other place outside that collection, people are being exchanged for cash. So this isn't working, and now the question is how to deal with it. I understand that the Minister has a difficult situation too, and we all certainly do, especially those with whom a copper gutter has been stolen, or those who fell into the canal from which someone stole the shelter. But this solution proves not to be effective. We have suggested that municipalities should be able to regulate both the location of collections and the time at which these collections can be opened. This House found this proposal unsatisfactory, did not support it. So one of the roads closed. The second way is to ban the purchase of metal waste as a whole, simply to ban the purchase of waste in collections at all. But this too is a thing that may not produce an effect, especially in an inventive Czech environment. So what I mean is that the Minister expects me to criticise this proposal, which I am doing here. What about the second reading, we'll see about that. I'm going to try to get the most positive approach to this and the maximum effort to sort this thing out in some way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u7	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Michal Kučera, duly signed up after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I would like to point out precisely one of the important paradoxes that this bill brings, because at one of the last meetings, we agreed that the Czech Republic should do its utmost to support projects to maintain water in the countryside, to prepare projects for cleaning ponds and water areas in general, to look for funding and possibly to block some bureaucracy related to it. And this bill brings one significant financial burden, and that is that it will force anyone who wants to clean up their pond or their water surface, if you want to, if they want to ditch it, they will have to treat it as waste. That means what our fathers and forefathers used to use in the field as a significant natural fertilizer, so now we're going to put everyone to bed to deal with it as waste, which means we're going to make it financially difficult to clean common ponds. I don't think that's good. I wish, Minister, colleagues, that we might consider this together and see if it is possible to find a way, as sludge from the pond or from the trough, which is not polluted by something extraordinary, so that we do not treat it as waste.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u9	I thank Mr Bendl. Another duly registered member is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u10	Hello. Thank you for the floor. A fellow zahradník, my previous speaker, said many. I'll be more or less precise about some things. I have a few comments on this novel. Perhaps first I would like to touch on the term of effectiveness proposed by Minister Brabec there. I think that's June 1st, if I remember correctly. This seems quite quick to me that we are at first reading at the moment, and I would not want this speed of discussion to be a risk to municipalities or business entities and citizens. The fact that the amendment is to some extent a transposition and removes the previous lack of implementation of the directive has already been mentioned here by Minister Brabec. But, of course, here too, we are going beyond what is prescribed by the European Commission. The amendment introduces a new penalty - up to half a million crowns for battery processors who do not give the Ministry a report on recycling efficiency, which seems to me to be another administrative burden, and imposed sanctions, as is the custom for Minister Brabec. The administrative burden, at least what we can read in the explanatory memorandum, so the administrative burden is noted for a number of other points in the explanatory memorandum - that there will be a slight increase in the administrative burden for business entities. Another point in the explanatory statement, however, states... However, in other parts of the explanatory memorandum, the wording is used that the overall administrative burden cannot be established. So there are some contradictions about the administrative burden this will bring. On the one hand, the explanatory memorandum mentions that the burden will be increased, on the other hand, that it cannot be established overall. I think it would be good to specify it for the next time, this burden as such, more precisely. The question raised here by the definition of the treatment of debugged sediments has already been mentioned by my previous speakers. So far, it looks like it's going to be another financial burden, especially for our communities that decide to clean up their flows, virtually. your ponds. I can already say today that, for example, the water catchment area is abandoning watercourse cleaning precisely for reasons of high financial costs. I hope that we will learn in committee exactly how this will be dealt with. Maybe I'm wrong, and I'll be happy to make this mistake. [[17,00 hours]] As regards the cashless payments mentioned here by Minister Brabec, of course we know that this is not working. I think we already knew that when, as a government coalition, you voted for this amendment, it wouldn't work. They're always one step ahead of the novels. And it's Minister Brabec who's trying to catch up with the novels. So at first, we've made a novel that there's going to be a cash-free payment, and now we're gonna make it clear, but I'm afraid the bad guys are gonna be one step ahead of this novel. Maybe they already know how they're gonna deal with it now. One of the mentioned tricks was the note trick, when the metal collectors came in, they got some kind of note, and next to the window, they got cash for the note, so I'm looking forward to the trick they'll come up with next time. Of course, only decent people who would like to carry waste into the collection as it should be are paying for these novels. Otherwise, at the end of his speech, Minister Brabec pleased me with another promise that the next time would be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and have a good afternoon. I don't see anyone logged in to the debate. In that case, I am ending the general debate and we will now consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. Before that, I ask if you want to take the final words. The minister is asking for the final word, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u12	It'll be brief. I would like to assure you - thank you for the comments - that all the points that have been discussed have already been discussed in a rather long and quite stormy inter-ministerial commentary procedure. Even the matter of using sediments from ponds or rivers is already a compromise that has been reached with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and with the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. it will be able to continue to be used as fertilizer or to be used as ground load if the analysis is met there, in other words, that heavy metals will not be found there above any limit, which seems quite logical to me. There is a fact, to what my colleague Bendl says, certainly our ancestors used it perfectly logically, quite correctly as fertilizer, but unfortunately at that time there were not as many heavy metals and other substances of health in sediment as it is today. But the compromise is definitely there and we are ready to discuss it further. The same in terms of sewage treatment plants and pits. I would just like to assure you that this is an effect for your fellow Zahradník, Mr President, that the metal decree has brought about. Today I get many emails from people every day, from citizens, from police representatives, whether urban or state, from representatives of municipalities who say: We stopped meeting those magnets, as a picturesque colleague from the Senate calls them, with carts. And it's clear they'll think of something, but we'll figure something out, too. We have prepared a complex material how to deal with this in the first place. Believe that we have had the opportunity to do absolutely nothing that, of course, we logically did not want to use, and to remain in a position where we say that this is a problem of the Czech Republic and that there is nothing we can do about it. I'm sure there's something we can do about it, but it won't be easy. You are right that the criminal segment is always one step ahead, but a combination of much more control than it has been so far, and I want to assure you that it will be much more control of collection in this year and in the coming years, and a combination of some larger regulation we believe that we will achieve that in some relatively foreseeable time, the business will cease to be a criminal segment in a large extent and that, on the contrary, it will not burden so many honest buyers. I just wanted to say that, and I would like to ask you to consider my proposal to shorten the committee discussions for 45 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u13	Thank you. For the record, did this proposal fall here during the general debate, Minister? Motion to shorten? He fell. Thank you. The rapporteur will also take the final floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u14	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, very briefly I too. In the debate at first reading, three colleagues who have not proposed a return to the revision or rejection of the law have spoken, so I recommend that the law be passed to second reading and, on the basis of the time and things necessary for the law, I would support the Minister's proposal that the committee's law be reduced to 45 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u15	Thank you, rapporteur. So, first of all, we will consider the motion for a commandment to committees for discussion, as I have already said. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment. In connection with the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 1. 3. 2015 I propose that we order a bill to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I can't see, in which case we will proceed to the vote. I shall put to the vote who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 117. The Members present are 164, for proposal 127, against none, and the proposal has been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, so I ask if anyone has a proposal for discussion in other committees. It's not like that. In that case, I note that this material has not been referred to other committees. We will be the last to vote on a reduction in the deadline. There is a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion to 45 days. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this proposal to shorten the time limit for the hearing. - I'm registering an application for withdrawal from the dime, so I apologize to you all, and I declare this vote 118 to be misguided. I'm signing you off, and I'm asking you to rejoin the system. Before I vote, Prime Minister Kalousek claims priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u16	I am very sorry, Mr President. Let me get this straight. The proposal is a cut to 45, or a cut to 45?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u17	When I asked, my question was whether it was reduced to 45 days. That's been confirmed to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u18	In that case, we are only opposed and we do not regret.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-007-029.u19	Okay. Since I don't see anybody who's applying, and I've had you logged in again, in which case, I'm now opening the vote and asking who's in favour of shortening the 45-day hearing period, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 119. Members present are 139, in favour of proposal 105, against 27. I note that this proposal has been accepted and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 45 days. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. Opening point
