ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-004-011.u1	11. Government bill on recovery procedures and resolution in the financial market /house print 536/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Mr Vice-President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-004-011.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for the submission of the Government's proposal for a law on financial recovery and resolution and related government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on recovery and resolution in the financial market and in connection with the adjustment of the deposit guarantee scheme registered as House printing number 537, is the implementation of the European Directive on recovery and crisis management in the financial market and the European Directive on deposit guarantee schemes. Given the interrelationship between the two Houses of Press, I consider it appropriate to discuss them at the same time. Since I presented the two House prints in detail at the beginning of the first reading, today I will repeat only the basic facts. The aim of the European Directive on sound procedures and crisis management in the financial market is to lay down rules for the prevention and management of possible crises by credit institutions and securities traders. The basic principle is that the costs of any crisis of these institutions should be borne primarily by shareholders and creditors through depreciation and conversion of their assets. The European directive on deposit guarantee schemes unifies the collection of contributions to national deposit guarantee funds, reduces the deadline for payment of deposit guarantee refunds, in the case of the Czech Republic from the current 20 to 7 working days, adjusts the extent of deposit guarantee and strengthens the information of depositors. In view of the fact that the transposition periods have already expired and that infringement proceedings have already been initiated in this context, I consider it essential that the bills submitted be approved as soon as possible. Otherwise, the risk of financial sanctions of the Czech Republic is increased. However, the need for rapid adoption of the proposed bills also has practical reasons. At present, the Czech National Bank does not have legal authorisation to start the exercise of the new powers to collect regular contributions to the resolution fund or to treat foreign partners as a resolution authority, which carries a reputational risk and a risk of legal uncertainty. In the light of the above, I ask you to give your consent to the draft of these laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-004-011.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered to the House prints 536/1 and 536/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Roman Kubíček, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-004-011.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary committee adopted the resolution of the 29th meeting held on 19 October 2015, as follows: The Government's proposal for a law on recovery procedures and resolution of the crisis in the financial market, the House's press 536, second reading. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Lenka Jurošková, Deputy Governor of the Czech National Bank Mojmír Hampl, reporting report by Roman Kubíček and following the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament 1. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies that the Government's proposal for a law on recovery procedures and resolution in the financial market, House Press 536, should be approved as amended. - The amendments contained in this press are, in general, legislative technical corrections in addition to paragraph 80. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 the second sentence is replaced by the following: "On the first appointment of members of the Management Board, the Finance Minister shall appoint one member for three years, two members for four years and two members for five years.' To that end, it means that this body should be operational on an ongoing basis. 2. It empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-004-011.u5	Thank you. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I don't see anyone. If so, Mr Kubíček, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-004-011.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to ask you to shorten the deadline between second and third reading to seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-004-011.u7	Thank you. I ask if anyone else wants to speak in the general debate. It's not like that. I conclude the general debate and ask the Minister or the rapporteur whether you want to take the final floor. This is not the case, in which case I am initiating a detailed debate. I ask who is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I conclude the detailed debate and ask if you want to take the final floor. The rapporteur, the Minister - not so. During the general debate, there was a proposal to shorten the deadline to seven days. Shortening to seven days is possible only with the agreement of the petitioner, so I ask the Minister whether he agrees to a reduction to seven days to discuss. I see he agrees. So I will ring the bell and ask my colleagues to come to the vote. I'm registering the check-out request. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin the system. I'll wait for the numbers to settle. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. There is a proposal to shorten the deadline for the third reading to seven days. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 103, 120 Members are registered, for proposal 79, against 10. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved, and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. We will continue to discuss the next point. Opening point
