ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u1	1. Motion to express distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic A group of 50 Members exercised their rights and pursuant to Section 84 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, submitted a motion for distrust to the Government. I therefore ask that those who are enrolled take the floor gradually for the plaintiffs. I have here Mr Fiala's application and, at the same time, the President of the ODS, then the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek, and if he is interested in speaking, Mr Černoch and Mr Dawn Club. Those are the plaintiffs. Then, of course, in the debate, I will give room to others, both those enrolled and, if necessary, to exercise priority rights. First, President Fiala, then President Kalousek and then President Černoch. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I want to explain the reasons why we decided to use the Institute as an opposition - and I stress and confirm that the extraordinary institute - a statement of distrust to the government, why we decided to convene this meeting, why we agreed with the TOP 09 party last week and the Dawn movement to meet here today. I must say that we have been dissatisfied with the Sobotkův Government, which I call the Socialist-Manager Government, since its inception. We've been saying that since day one. But that's not why we called this meeting. Of course, we are bothered by a lot of socialist measures, such as the complications of the tax system by introducing a third rate of VAT, by the plans for new taxes, by the hidden increase in existing taxes, by the increase in social expenditure, of course. Of course, we are bothered by too many last-minute changes to tax laws. Only last year, taxes went up six times. We are bothered by a lot of measures when proposals that have no alternative are cancelled, they have no concept. Remember the second pension pillar, remember the medical fees. We are also, of course, bothered by spending money, for example, to increase the operating costs of ministries, where bureaucracy only increases, the number of officials, but it has no good impact on citizens. Of course, we also resent the regulation of the lives of ordinary people. Think of the ideas of restoring temporary stays, the obligation to send children to kindergarten in the last year before entering school, the unified entrance exams and a lot of other socialist ideas. We are also bothered by the central registers, the fact that the government is not investing enough, it is endangering our future, and it is, of course, the class struggle that this government is leading against tradesmen, against small entrepreneurs, against hardworking people in this country, and which will culminate in the attempt to accept registers. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all we care about. That's what we're repeatedly talking about here, but that's not why we've called this meeting. There are dozens of decisions that we can't accept, which bothers us, because they are gradually taking away freedom from all active and hardworking people. There are dozens of proposals and measures that we do not like because they restrict, control, burden hardworking people and decent citizens. We fight these ideas of Prime Minister Sobotka's government, we argue, we explain, we meet on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and we respect that this government has a majority. We see this as a struggle between the left-wing government and the right-wing opposition, and there is no reason for us to call this extraordinary meeting in an attempt to voice distrust to the government. The reason we're here today is the only one, and I'd really like you all to realize it, whether you're sitting in opposition benches where we realize it or you're in a government coalition. The reason for this is a conflict of interest between the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and the owner of Agrofert holding in one person. And I would even say - now it's not about the permanent conflict of interest we've witnessed since this government came into being. Now it's not just a constant conflict of interest. Now it's abuse of power for the benefit of one group, for the benefit of one company, for the benefit of one man. Yes, the Vice Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and Chairman of the ANO movement, is using his political power to gain economic benefits for his company Agrofert. And ladies and gentlemen, we are not the only ones who notice. It is not just the right-wing opposition that has the subject of Babiš that notices it. That's not true at all. [[14.10 hours]] Representatives of the other two government parties, other than the YES movement, noticed this and spoke about it quite openly. But we're the only ones who don't put their heads in the sand before that, and they're ready to do something. I would remind you here of the words of the Prime Minister of this government, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, who said in March 2014. I quote: I would personally consider the cleanest solution if Mr Babiš chose between being an entrepreneur or a politician and choosing the role of politics. So much more than a year ago, Mr. Prime Minister. In March 2015, the Prime Minister added: But the problem is that the chairman of our coalition partner ANO Andrej Babiš did not give up his economic and media influence after joining the top policy, after entering the position of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. It now concentrates political, economic and media power in one person to an extent unprecedented in our country after 1989. This leads to a permanent risk of conflict of interest. Our laws on conflicts of interest, the financing of political parties and the regulation of the media market were not prepared for anything like this. All the more so is the current responsibility of social democracy as a traditional internal democratic and free political party. Responsibility for maintaining democratic rules and conditions for free political competition. Responsibility for our government - I keep quoting the Prime Minister - will always consistently defend public interest. End of the quotation of the Prime Minister's statement in March 2015. Yes, Prime Minister, I agree with most of what you said here. It's your responsibility. It's your party's responsibility, but unfortunately, you're talking about that responsibility, but you're not doing anything about it. You look like everything's okay, and that doesn't give you a strict public interest. And the fact that another, the smallest member of the government coalition, is aware of this is evidenced by the words of Pavel Bělobrádek, who said in March 2015: Voters knew that this connection was here before the elections. Even joining politics didn't change anything. Finally, he didn't even promise. It's very unusual, but it's a reality. Well, I guess when there's something very unstandard in democracy, it's my custom to pay attention. I agree with Mr. Vice Prime Minister that this is very unusual, but I am no longer going to accept that this is reality. It's not like the voters knew about the conflict of interest of Andrej Babiš before the election. They knew about the conflict of interest, but they didn't know that Andrej Babiš would take advantage of this conflict of interest and that he would actually use political power for his business, for his business, for the profit of his companies. However, when I observed the events of the last days, unlike Mr Vice Prime Minister, other KDU-ČSL members have a problem with this situation, because Minister Jurečka had difficulty defending the position of the first Vice-President of the Party this Saturday, because many delegates of KDU-ČSL clearly said that his role in the proposal for further support for biofuels is not clear, and they did not understand why Minister Babiš was so willing to play a white horse and took up an amendment that extended tax relief for rape biofuels by 2020 in order to help hide the most significant conflict of interest that Minister Babiš is committing. What exactly does this abuse look like, using Andrej Babiš's political power for the benefit of his companies? I'll remind you of a few facts, a few numbers. I will no longer talk about what we have been talking about repeatedly here, and this is the excise tax law, i.e. the promotion of biofuels, where it is descriptive and where there has been a completely hypocritical negotiation of both YES Members and Members from other governmental parties. I can recall another, similar issue and this was the restoration of green diesel, for which the introduction of financial profit for Agrofert is CZK 32 million. We all know there's a conflict of interest. Andrej Babiš knows that, so he has announced a conflict of interest at government meetings at least seven times recently. I can even list the cases that concern you. If this continues, of course Andrej Babiš will not be able to vote on almost anything in the government because he will have a conflict of interest with everything, and then I can ask myself if he will be useless in the government. But Minister Babiš will declare a conflict of interest, someone else will be willing to take over his interests, his economic interests, present to the government what the Ministry of Finance has prepared, present it here in the Chamber of Deputies, and the actual conflict of interest, and the actual abuse of power will eventually occur here. I can continue with these particular examples. Agrofert companies participate in public procurements, tenders, and those contracts win. Let us remember the huge timber processing contract of the Czech Forests, which was partly obtained by Uniles holding Agrofert, or, they are small things, but it is obvious that Agrofert cannot help himself, from last week CZK 5.4 million to promote tourism allocated by the Ministry of Regional Development, which happens to be managed by ANO's nominee. What is also extremely serious today, what we have drawn the public's attention to at the press conference today, is investment incentives that have come or come or come to companies owned by the Minister of Finance. These companies were forgiven the income tax of CZK 1.5 billion in 2014, thus approved by the current government, and the number of CZK 1.5 billion is extremely interesting compared to 2013. In 2013, companies from Agrofert holding did not receive a crown on investment incentives, so at least in this case the participation of the Minister of Finance and the owner of Agrofert in the government is undoubtedly paying off to this company. And it really seems that Agrofert is thriving. Agrofert Group in 2014, when Andrej Babiš was Minister of Finance, increased unconsolidated revenues by CZK 3 billion year on year to CZK 239 billion and gross unconsolidated income of Agrofert adjusted for dividends received increased by 19 percent to CZK 6.8 billion. I'm just asking you a question that you can answer for yourself, how it is possible that Agrofert is doing so well, so it is doing extremely well when its owner has ceased to fully pursue its management and pursues his activities in the government. I'm not going to answer that question, but I hope you'll make the answer yourself, virtually. I'm sure you'll at least ask yourself that question. From all of this. It is clear from this that the Prime Minister is not in control of the activities of his Minister of Finance, because otherwise he could not allow what he himself calls problematic, that he does not manage the government in this regard, or, worse, he does not want to deal with this situation. And if the Prime Minister does not want to address this situation, if the democratic political parties involved in the government do not want to address it, then the opposition must address this situation. That is why we are here today and that is why we have called for a vote on the distrust of the government of Bohuslav Sobotka. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Prime Minister obviously does not know what to do with this situation, and since we are constructive opposition, I would like to propose to the Prime Minister a solution that did not occur to him, but which would help us get out of the situation that is a disgrace to the Czech Republic and which has no equivalent in another democratic country. [[14.20 hours]] So what kind of solution do we propose? One possibility is that Minister Babiš will change the resort. He will not be Minister of Finance, he will not be Minister of Industry and Trade, he will not be Minister of Agriculture, but he will have to be Minister of Agriculture - I do not want to advise the Prime Minister - work and social affairs, culture, abroad or anything where he will not get into this permanent conflict of interest. And the second option - and the best thing would be if it happened together - is that Agrofert's activities are consistently separated from the state. This means that Agrofert and its subsidiaries will not report to the tender of the state and its organisations, including state companies, that Agrofert will not receive national subsidies or investment incentives and that the government will not write laws tailored to several companies that - and what coincidence! - above all, they comply with Agrofert holding. Ladies and gentlemen, after what I said, I don't think anyone will be surprised that the government doesn't have our trust. The government doesn't have our trust for many reasons. For the reasons he's doing politics, how he's progressing, how he's attacking hardworking and decent people. But we, and I said that at the outset, we acknowledge the results of the elections, we accepted the fact that we have a socialist government, and we are proceeding accordingly in the Chamber of Deputies. But we cannot accept the fact, we cannot accept the fact that there is an abuse of power in favour of economic interests. It's not just about someone getting rich. It is also about the fact that the basic rules of democratic culture are being violated here, that one businessman in the government is passing on benefits to his company, passing on funds to his company, and others allow him to do so. That's a really serious reason. It is a reason that everyone must understand that the opposition, which means the good of the citizens of the Czech Republic, which is democratic rules of the game, is causing the opposition to distrust this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u3	I am very sorry, Mr President, I ask the left side of the hall - the left side of the hall - to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u4	I would like to convey the following to Members of the Government Party through the President. If you do not oppose this conflict of interest, if you do not press Prime Minister Sobotka to take responsibility for this, you merely confirm my recent words when I said that this government is based on a silent agreement that works by the government implementing socialist socialist priorities of social democracy in exchange for the implementation of Agrofert Group's business interests. I, ladies and gentlemen, really do not understand how you can stand by this conflict of interest. I do not understand how democratic political parties represented in this government can accept this abuse of political power in favour of their own business. Today it is about this, and this is the fundamental theme of this extraordinary meeting of ours, who abuses power in this country, who exploits that power to carry out its own personal economic interests. We've given you all a chance to change this situation. We have given you a chance to show today by voting that you do not want the Prime Minister of this country to hide his head in the sand, to pretend that everything is okay to pretend that it is okay to rule with a man who uses democracy for his benefit and for his business. Today's vote will be a chance for all of you who want to show that politics is a service to the people and the public and that politics is not a service to the interests of one man and one company. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a chance to change that, and I call on you to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u5	The next candidate will be the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club and will be prepared by the President of the Úsvit Club. Before I give the floor to the MP... There is no debate, there are speeches by the plaintiffs, so I will not accept technical remarks. Technical remarks only in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, it can be assumed that during an emergency meeting, which is a matter of distrust to the government, some members of the government will be speaking and presenting the alleged achievements of the government in the field of economic policy, social policy or foreign policy. We are, of course, opposed to these policies. We feel that the government's economic and social policy is not responsible, and we regret that we are often in opposition to foreign policy. However, none of this is the reason why we asked for this meeting to be convened. This reason is the only one and it is an unprecedented, unfortunately often consumed conflict of interests of the Minister of Finance and the owner of Agrofert in one person. Conflict of interest, which is not only tolerated, but also often directly supported by ANO coalition partners. We're political realists, and when it's said that we can count to one hundred, of course we can. And from a certain point of view, I can agree that this meeting is useless. It would be useless if we lived in a country with fully free media. If we lived in a country with fully free media, there would be no need to convene a meeting on government trust, because today and every day, this free media would protest from the front pages against a huge and consumed conflict of interests of the Minister of Finance. There's no government in Western democracies that can stand something like this. Since we have, as we know, a fully free media, there is nothing left to say but to use this extraordinary instrument to point out that this is a really special thing, that it is a thing that deserves to say: No, we do not believe you! Not because we have a different view of tax policy, but because we believe that one member of the government should not be enriched at the expense of public budgets. Biofuel is far from being the only example of this conflict of interest, but given that biofuels have overflowed the cup, let me briefly comment on the fact that this conflict of interest is not only there, but that its carrier is publicly deceiving its true scope and is also committing direct corruption lies. First of all, it is an incredibly incredible argument that the public support for the sale of clean biofuels by the producer does not have anything at all because the public aid is directed towards distributors. Yes, this last sentence is only true. Public aid is directed towards distributors, it is public aid, whose task is price intervention, to reduce the price to an attractive position, and by the fact that the price is attractive and low, logically the manufacturer can sell his products. If public support for the purpose of price intervention had not been paid in the amount set by the Ministry of Finance of CZK 9 billion, then of course the product would have been priceless unattractive and the producer would not have sold it and would not have had the business. If necessary, he would have to sell it at a significantly lower price than he is now carrying out when public support is helping him with that price. It's so simple to think that if it's not purposely foggy, everyone understands it. It is similar to the case of scrap metal, which were tried by colleagues from social democracy. Why do colleagues, when you're promoting scrap metal in volume...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u7	Again, I ask the left side of the hall to refrain from remarks, especially loud ones, and to have President Kalousek speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u8	They were arguing about something else, they weren't commenting on my speech. But thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask my colleagues from social democracy why, when they advocated public support for so-called. scrap metal, why did they say with one breath that it was the support of the automotive industry? When, of course, none of these two billion crowns went to car manufacturers. The support was directed to the customers to receive a contribution when buying a new car. However, of course, it was the support of the automotive industry, because this contribution allowed the car manufacturers to sell the cars. However, it is not in the logic of Minister Babiš or Prime Minister Faltýnek. In the logic of President Faltýnek's contribution, only the customers had the advantage, and the manufacturer had nothing to do with it, he was just working for people. So you have to choose what was or was not the support of one or the other. I think it's pretty obvious. The argument by Minister Babiš that the manufacturer has nothing to do with this, because price intervention goes towards distributors is as absurd as if we were to say that solar barons have nothing at all from the public support of solar power. It's just for decent people to have cheaper electricity, those solar barons are just worried about it and really no profit. It's not true! As a result, the solar barons have disproportionately large profits, and so will the agrarian baron's disproportionate profit under the law that he wrote himself. The second extraordinary deception that was made, or rather hypocrisy, was the moment when, at some point in this argument, the ANO movement and its chairman decided to play such a game that they wanted to end it, too, and leave it to their coalition partners. So they left Mr Rais - I do not think that this was the very idea of Mr Rais - so they had Mr Rais put forward an amendment to end the tax support of biofuels completely identical to mine. With the fact that it will somehow, if you allow me to say the word, get bogged down so that the vote of Mr Rais's amendment will not take place at all. However, the YES movement with the Minister of Finance could wash his hands: we really wanted to end this, for our Member has tabled the amendment. This hypocrisy was at least illuminated by the fact that the rapporteur and the appellant of the identical amendment finally withdrew its proposal and the House voted on Mr Rais's amendment. And contrary to the public statement, contrary to what the Minister of Finance declared and the overwhelming part of his membership club, she voted against the proposal of her party colleague. What was scandalous about it was the fact that the next day at the press conference, the Minister of Finance answered the question: Why did you not support it? Why didn't you support the proposal to end biofuels when you publicly promised? The Minister of Finance replied, I think I can literally do it: "I was there for the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance had a neutral position, so I can't double it." I leave aside that the neutral opinion of the Authority, the expert opinion, is not an order for the petitioner to abstain. The expert opinion says: It doesn't really matter to us whether you decide one way or the other, it will be professionally correct. However, the spicy point is that the position was not neutral. We members of the Committee on Budgets across the political spectrum know well that the Ministry of Finance has expressed a favourable position with Mr Rais's proposal. We have this in writing, and those who have not read it have heard from Deputy Secretary Hornochová, who has been discussing the various amendments with us here, and who, at the Ministry of Finance, has proposed to Mr Rais's proposal to give her consent for the Ministry of Finance. So, in summary, nothing happened except that the Minister of Finance voted against the expert opinion of his office in favour of his private company and then publicly lied about it at a press conference. Please, in a normal democracy, this completely conclusive sentence and the true sentence is so shocking that to absorb it, I will allow myself to repeat it so that it is quite clear what really happened. [[He's talking very strongly.]] The Minister of Finance voted contrary to the expert opinion of his office in favour of his private company and then publicly lied about it at a press conference. I can't imagine a country where a minister could get away with this. And I can't imagine a Prime Minister who wouldn't react to something that his minister did. But the Prime Minister here will shrug his shoulders and say, "Just as long as we don't spill the baby with the bathtub. We believe, Prime Minister, that you mean your child's interest in being Prime Minister, who you and the Minister of Finance exchange for tolerance, if not support, his private economic interests. But please think, through the President, Prime Minister, whether you are violating the very basic principles of normal standard democracy and not moving our country somewhere that truly does not belong to European democracy. Of course, it was not the only conflict of interest consumed and the only corruption lie that had already taken place in this context. The President of the Fiala said something, something that was slightly mentioned by the newspapers when they wrote about land speculation at Olbramovic, about public procurement, whether at the Ministry of Regional Development or at the Forests of the Czech Republic. But in order to understand this principle, I will allow myself to illustrate one of the many other examples at a relatively small amount, because I understand that when we talk about billions, that someone can't imagine it, while talking about hundreds of thousands, it is conceivable. In earlier times, let me not talk about myself, let's say in the time of the Sobotka Finance Minister, of course finance ministers have always attended business lunches and breakfasts and conferences and meetings with some interest or professional groups. And they always did it for free. But that has changed - we are not like politicians, we are working! And I'm just gonna ask you, colleagues from social democracy or from ODS or KDU, how do you think any of your ministers would last long if you set up a PR agency and told your state enterprise that it's subject to: you're gonna pay so much for breakfast with me. Or maybe he sent it to him through someone. That's exactly what happened! The state enterprise ČEPRO, 100% controlled by the Minister of Finance, paid CZK 161,000 for breakfast with the Minister of Finance to the private company Minister of Finance! Maybe they got an extra roll. And, of course, they didn't dare not pay because the Ministry of Finance is already well aware of how well those who are unaware of priorities and do not see the interest of Agrofert in the first place. But can you imagine a more crystallistic corruption case? I know it's relatively little money, but it's a matter of principle. [[14.40 hours]] When we were here 16 months ago pointing out the huge conflict of interest in the field that Mr. Finance Minister Babiš was entering, and I compared it to the situation of a tiger in the mass, you all said, "But that's not true, you suspect him for nothing, he won't bite. I said, "But a lot of these bites will never be seen." But as you can see, the Minister of Finance can't resist and bite even when he sees them. If he behaves this way in those cases on which he is seen, it is possible to state with a probability that he acts this way in all other cases where he is not visible and will never be seen, whether it be operations on the capital market, whether it be his relationship with banks where he is significantly credited. Just wherever public budgets are interested in themselves and Agrofert's interest, the Minister of Finance, on specific examples that we are talking about today and can prove to them, convinces us that Agrofert's interest will always take precedence. I will return here again to the free media space, because these are cases that would have previously been the titles of the Mladá fronta, Lidové noviny, Respekt, titles very sensitive only to corruption hints, so these titles, which only suspectedly could describe several pages, so in the case of unambiguously proven corruption and unambiguously proven lies have reason to remain silent. They're probably also concerned about getting some of their bathtubs out. All the more so is the responsibility for the control mechanisms and the constitutional control power of the Chamber of Deputies. And I do not think that this is only the responsibility of opposition parties, because each of us, colleagues, when the debate is over, each of us will have to stand up and take personal responsibility for this corruption regime. You, colleagues from YES, will have to stand up and say: Yes, we really believe the argument that the manufacturer from public support for clean biofuels has nothing at all. And we trust the Minister of Finance that the Ministry of Finance did not have a favourable opinion on Mr Rais's proposal, the paper that our members of the Budget Committee had from the Ministry of Finance, which did not exist, and we did not hear Deputy Secretary Hornochová. And we consider it perfectly right that the Minister of Finance collects contributions from his state-owned enterprises to his private cashier for the breakfast that he organizes. Why would he do it for free? We're not like politicians. We believe in all this, and each of us is ready to take responsibility for it. You're gonna have to do that. And you KDU colleagues, you too, one by one, will have to stand up and say: Yes, we take responsibility for this. We believe that, too, because if we say we don't believe it, we would have to admit that our Minister Jurečka is in on it, and we really don't want to do that, and most of all, we're worried that if we say that we don't believe it, Andrej, in his eastern temperament, could not just pull a knife on us, but God forbid, even the Sekyra. [[Laughter and faint applause from the right side of the hall.]] And you, colleagues in social democracy, you will have to say, "We believe it too." Even though we approved at the convention...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u9	I'm sorry, but I'm trying to communicate nonverbally with notorious intruders, but I have nothing left to do. I'll ask both of them, and they know to settle down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u10	Although we have publicly approved at our convention that our main goal is not to allow the land to be oligarchised, we have simply taken an example from our great coalition partner, which we have simply been babbling about. In fact, we're prepared to support the oligarchization, especially if he lets us lick the oligarch a little bit and doesn't pour out the tub with our baby. That's what each of you will have to say. You really don't want to admit that at this point, we are not fighting for the concept of economic, social, foreign policy, that we are not fighting for right-wing or left-wing ideas or starting points, but that we are fighting for the preservation of standard civilised democratic borders? And that if the Minister of Finance gets away with his completely public and shameless enrichment at the expense of public budgets, that the border will shift and that standard will get somewhere other than the custom in the European Union? And next time? And then maybe it'll be too late? One of our parties had a pre-election password so our children wouldn't have to be ashamed of us. I don't think they're gonna feel any need to be ashamed of us, but they're gonna have to ask us very urgently. And those questions are necessarily gonna look like they're gonna say, "Oh, my proboha, Daddy or Grandpa, haven't you seen this? You didn't see where it was going? And we will all have to answer truthfully: I either ignored or actively defended Babišův's oligarchic corruption regime or actively supported it. Each of us will be held responsible for this, but none of us will be able to say that he did not know. We all know that. So it just depends on each of us - and I really do not mean just Members of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u11	The last person to speak as the plaintiff will be Mr. Chairman of the Dawn Club Marek Černoch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The reason why the Dawn movement joined today's meeting is because of the vote that took place last week, which, from our point of view, is exceptional in the wrong sense. There is one huge conflict of interest that lasts throughout this House. Unfortunately, last week, however, it proved absurd when the votes of the Coalition Members sounded that there had been a vote or that the amendment by coincidence, elsewhere by mistake, was not voted on by Mr Rais, some said that they had been forced to do so. We have become a constructive opposition party and you know very well that the proposals that are good for the citizens of this state from our point of view, so we supported that if there was something that from our point of view had positive meaning and influence in the future, so that we supported it, but after we saw here last week, we joined the vote on distrust of the government, because calling it a theater, I think that is an understatement. Of course, the reasons we have are more, not just this one. I signed up for the debate, I take this speech as such a brief introduction and the reason why we joined the signatures to call for a vote on distrust of the government. There are several reasons. Let it be a prepared whip for small and medium-sized businessmen through registers, electronic records, whether it be the proposals of Minister Dienstbier on the general debt of Rom people, to increase the ombudsman's powers. [[14.50 hours]] Let it be the behavior of Minister Mládek, who laughed us in the eye here at the time we fought against the amendment to the Energy Act. The novel, of course, was needed. Unfortunately, there were 350 amendments, which simply really brought about an increase in energy prices and which unfortunately already produce negative fruit in terms of possible sanctions from the European Commission's direction, and sanctions which, of course, will be paid by citizens of the Czech Republic. We don't know and we don't want to know what the fights were like here in the past parliamentary periods, because they were fighting other governments and other parties. We have added our votes to this vote because we feel that this huge conflict of interest is just beyond the line. I would like you to realize that, too, Members of the Coalition Party, because these are not idle challenges, they are not idle gestures. It's just reality. And this conflict of interest that is here, with all due respect, is in that negative sense really special, like he's never been here before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u13	This has exhausted the speeches of the plaintiffs, and I will open the debate. The Prime Minister will speak with priority in the debate, after which Vice-President Filip will be given the floor, followed by Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Prime Minister, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, today we have a vote on the government's distrust. There was a debate about who has or does not have confidence in government in this Chamber of Deputies. But I would very much like for this debate that we are having here and which we are still going to have, not for one important fact: this government is based on the outcome of the elections. This government is based on the decision of citizens, those who came to the elections to the Chamber of Deputies in autumn 2013, those who were dissatisfied or, on the contrary, were satisfied with developments in our country by October 2013. And these citizens in the elections have decided who has the power in this Chamber of Deputies. They have decided which political parties have found themselves in this Chamber of Deputies. We agreed after the election. We've formed a government coalition. And I am convinced that the composition of the government coalition also reflects the results of the elections and that political parties who have been given the confidence of citizens in the elections are ruling. The government coalition was created by social democracies, which won the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. It was created with the ANO movement, which ended in second place under social democracy in the election based on the electoral decision. And the third coalition partner is the folklore who had not been to the Chamber of Deputies before, but the increased support of voters has once again brought them to the Chamber of Deputies. This means that these three political parties have succeeded in the elections. They ended up in first place, second place, or re-entered the House. These are parties that undoubtedly had the confidence of voters in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. And these three parties have agreed. What made the agreement after the election easier? It was the fact that we weren't in the government. We haven't been in government in the past few years, we haven't taken government responsibility. Therefore, we could view similarly critically what was happening in the Czech Republic under Petr Nečas or his predecessors. We have created a government that has a stable majority in the Chamber of Deputies. The government has gained the confidence of 111 Members out of 200, or the government that was created on the basis of the results of the elections, has clear support in the Chamber of Deputies and has the trust of the three political parties that continue to have this majority here. Why am I repeating this? Perhaps you would say why he repeats these obvious facts in his performance, which are obvious. I repeat them because, not always in the past, governments were created here in such a way that they were created on the basis of the results of the elections, that they arose on the basis of the obvious majority they had in the Chamber of Deputies. I remember seeing a press conference here once - I think it was after the 2006 election. At the press conference was Mirek Topolánek, chairman of the ODS, so colleagues from the ODS will surely remember. And along with him came two pale members of social democracy who announced at the conference that they would vote with the government coalition of ODS, folks and greens - contrary to the position of their political party and contrary to the mandate they received from voters. So, on the basis of the defection of two Members after the 2006 elections, there was a government here! This was not a government that arose on the basis of a clear voter's decision. It was a government that was created on the basis of chess, behind-the-scenes chess that took place here in the Chamber of Deputies! I also remember how the government was here and held in power for months on the basis of support from a political party that didn't even run for election! And I'm sure colleagues from ODS and TOP 09 will remember that. It wasn't that long ago. There was a party here called PEOPLE. And I have repeatedly had to answer voters the question of how it is possible that government ministers are behind the LID side, although that party has never run for election. When the ODS government was here, TOP 09 and Public Affairs. Public affairs fell apart, a party was created by the People who continued to allow for the existence of Nečasův' government, although she never ran in elections. It wasn't standard either. And I'm glad we've moved on ever since. That we don't have defectors here from Melčák and Pohanka, that we don't have a party here that has never run for election and that allows the government to survive. This government stands on the basis of the votes of the political parties that have succeeded in the elections, has a clear mandate of citizens and has a clear majority in this Chamber of Deputies. And I believe that the vote before us today will show that the government continues to have the trust of the three political parties on which it was founded. President Fiala mentioned here that this government has no confidence in the ODS and has no confidence in the TOP 09. But we never had it. When we voted on our government's trust after the elections when the government was assembled, the ODS and TOP 09 did not support us. These parties have been criticizing us from the start. And I don't think there's any surprise that they're criticizing us now. But why is it suggested that the government be distrusted? If the government has some serious scandal that is unable to deal with and that threatens the functioning of the government. Our government had no such scandals. [[Laughter from the right and banging on the benches. The President of the Chamber of Deputies is asking for peace.]] It is proposed to express distrust to the government if the government fails to implement its programme if it fails to comply with what it has promised the voters in its programming statement. Or if the individual political parties that form the government deviate from what they promised the voters in this practical governance. But we do what we promised the people before the election, we try very hard to fulfill it. The government program is the intersection of the program of all three coalition parties, point by point we are fulfilling our program. We made it clear to the voters that we would try to reduce value added tax to medicines. It has happened since January 1st of this year. We agreed that we would go back to valorizing pensions according to inflation. It has happened since January 1st of this year. We agreed in the coalition, and we made it clear to you in the government program that we would cancel medical fees. It has happened since January 1st of this year. Those are the things we told the voters before the election that we do after the election. You have no reason to suggest that the government be distrusted because we would do something other than what we told the voters before the election. And I think it's also a positive change, and people have noticed it. I remember that the ODS once built its entire election campaign on the promise of "we will not raise taxes" and then increased the value added tax rate to three times when the ODS was in government. That's not how we behave and we'll never behave. Yes, you're right. We don't have ODS trust, we don't have TOP 09 trust. But we have the trust of three political parties that have a majority here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which form a government coalition. There was a debate about whether there really was a reason to vote on the government's distrust. I would first of all like to say that I fully respect the right of the opposition to call for such a vote. I have been in charge of the strongest opposition for many years here myself. I know that we have always considered very carefully whether we should use this instrument as an opposition, if there are no other options that would allow us to play our opposition role. [[15.00 hours]] I am convinced that there is always a need for such a significant vote to have a reason. And here I have heard in the performances of my previous speakers a reason called the biofuels support system, as supposedly something that overflowed the cup, like supposedly something that ran out of patience. I don't understand. I really don't understand. And I would like to ask my opponents what is really going on with the biofuels. Because if we look at the history of the biofuels support programme, which is now valid here, where our government hasn't changed a thing, the biofuels support programme has been approved on February 25, 2008. 25 February 2008. [[He repeats with emphasis.]] There was no Sobotkův government here. That was the Topolánkův government here. Topolánkův's government approved this program. And the Minister of Finance was Miroslav Kalousek. The program was founded by the Topolánkův government. The nonNečasův government hasn't changed a thing about him. The excise duty adjustment, which is still in force, was approved for the Topolánkův and Nečasův governments. And it's still on. There was no time determination to end up after five years. You pushed it when you were in government, without a time limit. So I don't know why the opposition wants to overthrow our government now for a program to support biofuels, which it has introduced itself, which hasn't changed a thing, and that hasn't bothered her until yesterday. Then why is it bothering you all of a sudden? Your own program you've put in place! Of course, we can debate the future of biofuels as to whether they should be supported by the first or second or third generations. But I'm asking why you didn't mind for five years, and now you're bothered. And I'll tell you why. This is just an excuse. This is just a hypocritical game because you really hate what the government does. That he's implementing his program. That she's capable of bringing things to an end. The fact that she has returned our country for at least one period, I firmly believe that for at least one parliamentary term, stability, political stability, and that it is possible for us to focus on things that have been neglected here for a long time. There was an intense political struggle in this country. Social democracy was also involved in it when we were in opposition. The fight was so intense that it permanently led to governments alternated, ministers alternated, the state ceased to function. I am convinced that we have a responsibility as a government coalition. We have a great responsibility in front of the citizens of the country to use the majority of 111 votes in favour of the citizens, to use them in favour of the Czech Republic and to correct the things that have been neglected here. I could calculate them for a very long time, but I'll at least tell you a few boxes so that you and the people can imagine what he was in and is the huge problem. Money from the European Union. When our government came, we were the worst in drawing European money across the European Union. It's a complete disgrace. Worst results: 2013 - Czech Republic. If we did not have a stable government and did not take a number of concrete steps to improve the use of European money, we would not be able to minimize the losses as it did last year and, I hope, this year as well. Negligible thing - preparations for the drawing of European funds at all. We already have six operational programs approved today, but when we came to the government, there was nothing, nothing was prepared at all. We had to catch up on everything that year. [[A round of applause from several ČSSD MEPs.]] We are the country that was the last in terms of unapproved operational programmes. We've got six now. And the situation is improving. Look at the construction of transport infrastructure. It was your right-wing government where Mr. Bárta was the Minister of Transport. To this day, everyone remembers him, but they remember him in a bad way. They say: This was the minister Bárta, who stopped not only construction but also stopped preparation. And look at how the road and highway preparation looks today because of your transport minister Bárta, who you were in the government with, and who you allowed to go on a rampage at the Ministry of Transport. Here, too, we're trying to catch up on the huge delays and neglect that have been here. Accelerate the construction of transport infrastructure. There are some things we agreed on here in the House. Civil Service Act. I think even the right-wing opposition realized that it was responsible for the Czech Republic's lack of a Civil Service Act. We've only been arguing about him for 25 years. And I'm glad we agreed a year ago, and the law in the Czech Republic is finally in effect. I would understand if you criticized the government for harming the economy. It was the government of ODS and TOP 09. We were in a recession. For several years, we were in a recession under the right-wing government. But we're not in the recession. In the first quarter, our economy grew very fast. We have become one of the fastest growing economies in Europe. In April, unemployment fell by half a percentage point month-on-month. And I firmly believe that the decline in unemployment will continue. This means the economy has accelerated, unemployment is falling, European money has accelerated, the state has accelerated investment in the first quarter of this year. And I think that the situation in society has calmed significantly from a social point of view. There are no demonstrations. I remember during the right-wing reign that I was at a demonstration in Wenceslas Square, 80,000 people called for the departure of Nečasův' government. We have a social dialogue. We're trying to have fun with employers. We're talking to the union. We're looking for a sensible solution. This government is helping the economy. The steps we have chosen are going in a reasonable direction. So I see no reason to criticize the government for harming our economy. We're bringing in new investors. Last year was a good year. Here comes investors from Korea. Here comes investors from China. We support the export of our companies. We're trying to find new markets for them. And I would also like to mention the fact that this government is not only talking about transparency, but also taking concrete steps. We have here in the House before the vote a law that will publish payments in the system and contracts in the health insurance system. It hasn't been here in years. We've got precautions. And if you look at how individual ministries progress, they're all now publishing contracts of at least 50,000. We have taken steps to improve the activities of the tax administration. We come up with concrete proposals to reduce tax evasion. And the question is, is it okay that there's a law on the table on the proof of the origin of the property that the government has already sent to the Chamber of Deputies, if it's okay that at the next meeting of the government, we will approve the Act on Electronic Records of Sales. Two measures that will actually be effective from the point of view of limiting the State's non-payment of taxes. These are the concrete steps we're taking. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, the opposition, if it proposes a statement of distrust to the government, it should also have an alternative. She herself should be able and have the courage to present an alternative. I listened very carefully to President Fiala's speech. I listened carefully to President Kalousek's speech or to President Černoch's speech. There wasn't a single word about it. One word about the alternative to how the government of the Czech Republic works here today. In this Chamber of Deputies, I believe there is no other reasonable alternative. If the Chamber of Deputies today votes in a manner consistent with the composition of the government coalition, the government will not lose its trust. I would like to make it clear that the Government of the Czech Republic is ready to continue working for citizens and the Government is ready to continue working for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u15	I will ask the Vice-President to wait a little longer, because the Prime Minister's speech has raised three requests for factual comments. First is Mrs Langšádlová, then President Stanjura and then Mr Komárek. All in two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u16	Prime Minister, I would like to repeat why we are gathered here today. You have entered into a coalition agreement with a person who has been associated not only with cooperation with the State Security, but also with a scrupulous business that has been supported here by really not good forces. [[Disagree in the ranks of the ANO movement.]] [[15.10 hours]] And Prime Minister, when we talked about a conflict of interest from the start, it was your responsibility and responsibility to prevent it from being carried out. And not only are you taking note today, but you are also supporting the corruption of the Prime Minister, because corruption is nothing more than that politics strengthens its economic interests on the basis of its political position. And what is happening here, not only last week, but also in the next steps that have been mentioned here, is mere corruption, Prime Minister. And you certainly didn't promise that to your constituents. You're responsible! You are responsible not only for what is happening here, but also as chairman of the largest democratic party. You have an extraordinary responsibility for our democratic future!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u17	Another factual point, President Stanjura. Mr Komárek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u18	So the Prime Minister's speech was in the spirit of an old Czech proverb about a goat and you about a wagon. I have to say, with the first seven minutes of these thesis, as you described the election results, the formation of a coalition, the majority voter support, we agree. There's no contradiction. President Petr Fiala also said that when he came out, we simply respected and respected it. However, it always bothers me when someone, a political matador like Bohuslav Sobotka, has a selective memory. And for him began the history of Czech politics and defectors in 2006. But she didn't start in 2006. When you ruled, you were eventually held in power by a defector named Kott. A defector from my political side to your political side. [[Applause from the right and laughter in the hall.]] And you didn't say that anymore! So if we want to make a list of what has happened in the Parliament of the Czech Republic since 1 January 1993, let us be complete. And then there's only one mathematical error. You said your government enjoyed the support of three parties in the Chamber of Deputies. I don't think that's true. I think it enjoys the support of four parties in the Chamber of Deputies. We were on TV yesterday with the President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club and he said: We will not vote against the government because the government is fulfilling our programme. Us, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] So you have the support of four political parties. And the only difference between the five of your attempts in the last term, I wasn't here before, and I don't remember, and today is - the signatures, it was the same: 50, you had 51, 52. But then the Communists voted against the government, and today they are voting for the government. That's the only difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mr. Komárek. Madame Němcová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this applause and laughter is somewhat expressing the absurd situation in which we find ourselves. We are overthrowing a government that will certainly not be overthrown. I compared it to my own ritual dance over the victim who's been jogging through the woods. So why are our opponents showing us that ritual dance when they can't shoot the victim, even though they want to? Well, it's to show that at least they can dance when they can't shoot anymore. I get it. But I ask Mr. Fiala and Mr. Kalousek not to lower themselves to absurdities, as when Mr. Fiala, as a pissant from elementary school, this professor, calls on the Prime Minister to put Minister Babiš in place of Minister of Social Affairs or something like that. It's just a schoolboy scoundrel. No one can take that seriously. Just like Mr Kalousek's statement about Babišův's oligarchy regime. We really live in a normal democratic country. The fact that we're fighting here is kind of part of the folklore. That we will witness a few more unnecessary ritual dances and the shaking of feathers, so be it! But please, gentlemen, don't ridicule yourself here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u21	Mrs. Němcová for two minutes. After that, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I am coming, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, in response to the Prime Minister's words, not to the words of my predecessor, Mr Komárek, because I do not feel like commenting on his words in any way. About what the Prime Minister said and about the selective memory. Mr. Prime Minister, if you criticised the emergence of various governments, how come your memory, the great matador of the House, did not bring back to you the memory of the government that the President of the Republic built after the 2013 elections, when you were out of government and put in here by his government, Jiří Rusnok and his SPOZ, which certainly did not pass through the elections, and therefore had no right to sit here and run our country? If you want to criticize something, I understand that within social democracy you have a block of those who are fans of Miloš Zeman, and you would have it hard, and a block of those who are not fans, among which I suppose I rank you. But if you're going to name something, please be precise and complete, because otherwise it smells like a lot of manipulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u23	All right, Chairman Kováčik two minutes. Mr. Fiedler will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. On the way to Mr Stanjur, by your means, Mr President, I would like to say that it was not the way he reproduced it from the television. I didn't really say that. And so now that what's not said is going on, I'm going to say what I didn't say and thought. We simply will not vote in favour of the TOP 09 and the ODS with which this country has a wealth of experience during their reign. [[Applause in the left side of the hall.]] None of the citizens, especially from our constituents, the KSČM voters, can think by shadow that we could possibly support the TOP 09 and the ODS. True, it's all in the position of symbolism. A symbolic attempt to distrust the government with a lack of quick voices. They didn't even try to contact us. What do you think, communists, you're also opposition, would you sign it for us? And priori knew. But somehow I'd be enthusiastic about supporting this government, well, I'm sorry, it can't be asked of us either. Because they didn't fulfill many of the things they promised. I'm not gonna break into our chairman's speech. He's gonna make this very clear. I'm very clear. Neither with the right hand nor with this government. We're self-contained, we're free because neither side of the dispute has just turned to us. We're doing our own politics, and if anyone wants to put a dog's head on us, right or right, I have to say, not left, it's just their problem. We will also proceed according to our common sense and according to what we promised our constituents and what we promised in the parliamentary pledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u25	Mr Fiedler's point of fact. After that, Mr. Beznoska. And there is a factual point to Mrs Lorencová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hope the time of the factual remark is enough for me. Three things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u27	He'll have to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u28	Yes, he will. It was said here that this country's economy, our economic situation, is at a higher level than it was. I totally agree with that, but it's absolutely not the government's fault. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Second thing. As a colleague of Komárek mentioned here, who, I have registered, was expressing his comments on the investigation committees on a reading server. You, Mr Komárek, here through Mr President, said a moment ago that we are withdrawing a government that will not be called off. We're setting up a committee of inquiry that won't investigate! I am referring to the committee of inquiry on D47, where when we voted that the President would be elected first so that this committee could work, so your parliamentary club, none of them voted for it. So you're saying, we don't want this investigation committee working. And in my case, that's one of the reasons why I'm going to be in favour of expressing my distrust of this government. Because that's one of many reasons, not one, one case. [[15.20 hours]] And the third thing I wanted to comment on. What is being said here repeatedly - electronic sales log. I certainly agree with the idea, I have no reservations about it, the idea is correct: to combat fraud, to combat tax evasion, that is correct. But colleagues in Croatia, after they introduced it, have increased their unemployment. Do we know what we're gonna do with the unemployed? I agree with the idea, but I think there are other priorities for a much more fundamental tax deduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Beznoska, Mrs Lorencová will be prepared and then Mr Blažek will actually be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The brief response to the Prime Minister is very similar to the reaction that Mr Fiedler had. Because, indeed, with the economic crisis in 2008, the right-wing government was not able to do much at the time, nor could it, just as you are in no way responsible for relatively robust economic growth now. That's the first point. And the second point to my colleague, Langšádlová. I very much agree that the cup may have overflowed and that we are talking about what policy we want to have in the Czech Republic. If it can be a policy of growing one company's managers into state administration, oligarchizing politics, creating a movement for business purposes, that means profit, profit, no opinions, no ideals, or we want a policy based on a standard conflict of standard political parties. This too is the subject of our debate today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u31	Yes. Mrs Lorencová, Mr Blažek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that it actually came to me last, because I think I could quite simply sum up my previous speakers in a statement about this spirit: we were here a long time ago before you, we know how things are going in this country, we know best how to work, what to do to make something pass, so that something does not pass. For so long and with full commitment, we have worked to ensure that this country is in a situation in which today, in a situation that I think many surrounding countries will not envy us. We are in a country that is corrupted by bad laws that cover a number of things that would never have to be here, and that actually got us into the House today, and because of which, God forbid, there is a government that has decided to do something to make the situation different, to make it better. And that's what seems to bother the colleagues who have been here for years before us the most. What bothers them most is that there could be changes that will significantly affect the situation that we are in, and that this will affect the better. I think that's what they're afraid of, that's what they've actually - summarized - performed by a number of previous speakers. That's their point. To avoid going through things that really have a real basis to change politics, change the situation. [[The President draws attention to the expiration of time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Mr Blažek, now Mrs Němcová, followed by Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u34	Hello, thank you for your word. I would respond to the Prime Minister's speech, which can be described as typical of a married man. That means if he doesn't praise himself, no one will praise you. The speech was well presented, but it had one flaw. He's completely avoided why we're here. We're not here for biofuels and stuff like that, it's just a sign of something that's systemic. You know, I've heard a lot of talk in this House and not just here about it, and a lot of advice on how it should work in such Russia. And I'm asking... That's why I didn't get involved in the debates, among other things. Let's ask one question: would Vladimir Putin, who we're painting here in some dictatorial fantasies, have passed a law, designed it, promoted it if one of his companies had won a single ruble? Even he wouldn't dare. We have nothing to advise Russia, we ourselves have quite a very fundamental problem, which is that the unprecedented system is happening and with us the unconventional growth of business and politics. And now I'm going to turn to social democracy. I remember reading, for example, how the predecessor of Mr Sobotka Majer physically defended the People's House before the SNB and then the People's Militias on February 25, 1948. And what's happening today? Moreses are being introduced today - they were Soviet moreses back then, and he physically resisted it. Today, there are worse cases than Russia, and President Sobotka is voting in favour. And he's defending it. After all, social democracy has quite a respectable history, and you really don't realize how you hurt all your predecessors?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u35	Mrs Němcová, with a point of fact, followed by Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u36	I will follow up on this main topic today, which is certainly a conflict of interests and a threat to democracy in our country, a quote from the ČSSD Assembly Resolution, where this party says: "Our democratic system must not become the subject of manipulation by rich oligarchs who own and control companies, media and political groups at the same time." Bohuslav Sobotka adds: "It is hard enough for us to fake a fair duel between political parties and support for voters in a situation where one party has influence through the media, which is owned directly by its chairman. " I continue from the resolution: "We should soon not have a parody on a democratic system in which, instead of political programs and democratic parties, only rich business clans will compete for the future of the state. " This is what we are discussing today, Prime Minister, whether you are contributing to the fulfilment of this convention resolution of yours, or whether you are simply hiding the fact of the conflict of interest that has occurred here and the threat to democracy in our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. I ask everyone to settle down, I have a whole series of factual remarks here, so please listen to them calmly. Mr Chvojka has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say that, as a member of the opposition in this term, I have experienced many such days when there was a vote of distrust to the government. The fundamental difference was that at that time the ČSSD had 56 MPs and we won the elections, although unfortunately we could not form a government. Today I am a little enjoying the set of three parties, two of which I consider relatively or not relatively standard political parties, that is, ODS and TOP 09, and I do not deny that those parties have the right to do so and it is the right to vote on the vote of distrust to the government. But there's the third element, that's the Dawn movement, which I think is a funny label to those two traditional parties. And I would like to ask - there were three previous speakers here, Mr Černoch, Mrs Lorencová, Mr Fiedler, whom I like otherwise personally, but I would like to know who they speak for, because I was looking at the House pages, they were elected - they had 14 Members elected, they had 9 members at the time, today the club has 10 members, at the same time there was a movement of national interests, Mr Okamura voting somewhere else, so I would be interested in this after that year and a half of the work here, who they speak for, because I am not clear about it, I do not know who the National Interests are, who is Mr Okamura, who is úsvit, who is soumrak, I don't know anything about it. And Mrs Lorencová only through the President. She was saying about how the old order was here and how they wanted to fix it, so I'm just gonna remind her - in the last term when things were public here, they turned out exactly the same way, Public affairs split up on LID and Public Affairs and Independent Members, so Mrs Lorencová, through the President, you continue to do exactly the same crap that the public did here. . [[Laughter and stormy applause by Members of the ODS]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u39	[[It's ringing.]] I have to use a present from Germany for the second time today. Colleagues, colleagues, please settle down. [[There's a messenger calling for a word. Chvojka.]] I know what happened, and my colleague Chvojka will have time to explain, but even in this case, I can't break the order. So I'd like a colleague of the Sklenák to make a point of fact. Everyone else, please settle down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, dear -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u41	No, my colleague, we will not continue until it is quiet here! Please take your seats, and my colleague Sklenák has room for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. Not only the last performance of Chvojka's colleague, but also a number of performances previously, the number of glowing on the board makes it clear that today's discussion will be long, so at this moment I will be able to come up with a procedural proposal to vote that today we will also vote after 21 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u43	Yes. A procedural proposal under Section 60 of the Rules of Procedure is also considered to be a factual point of view, so I will ring the bell for colleagues. Yes, I see an application for check-out. A new registration, please. The procedural proposal of my colleague, Sklenák, is such that we act today and vote after 21 o'clock. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 2, registered is 167, for 132, against 11. This proposal was adopted. Let's keep going, then. There was an application by Mr Černoch, a colleague of Mr Fiedler, and then a colleague of Mr Novotný, still all factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to ask my colleague Chvojka if he still insists on his words, which he said a moment ago. I think he should think for a while before he starts talking. I'm not talking about the personal invectives that I think are completely unnecessary, and I will, of course, be happy to explain the situation to my colleague, but not here at the microphone. Otherwise, only to Mrs Lorencová, if I may, through Mr President. My colleague, we want things to change. You said the previous speakers, you pointed to the right. So if I speak for the Dawn movement, we want things to change for the better, and that's why the question is - do you mind the conflict of interest that is? If it were anyone else, if it was a representative of any other party, you'd be walking and every day, every meeting you'd say there's a conflict of interest. And that's what we do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u45	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President to Mr Chvojka. I think it was outside the subject of this meeting you presented here. I don't want to go into any - Mr. Chvojka obviously has other concerns, so we'll get back to it at a separate point, I'll elaborate on the idea of church restitution, and I'll ask you right away: Are you representing the voters you cheated on with your promise to change the church restitution or what? And to Mrs Lorencová through Mr President. Madame, you've been talking about the adoption of bad laws. I think the energy bill was the bad guy. And we've been pointing out that there's this, let's say, scoundrel - solar power distribution, another bonus to solarians of 35 billion, and you haven't responded to it. We were alone in our movement. And we got here because we didn't agree to what was going on here before. But today we're in a different position, we see it from the side, we don't have those pink glasses, we see it more realistic, and I think we're about two years ahead of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u47	I thank Mr Fiedler. With another point of fact, Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Jandák after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after all, I still want to make a comment on the margo of Mr Chvojka's misgiving. Classic Sigmund Freud described two basic types of misrepresentation in his psychoanalysis file. This one is an ordinary misdemeanor when one simply says something wrong, and the other one is that through it, something much deeper enters the discourse. I think, unlike some, that Mr Chvojka may have misjudged himself, but he was not wrong in his political analysis when he presented a clear analysis between the nature of the political parties of the Public Affairs and the ANO movement. And I would like to add, through Mr President, to Mrs Lorencová: I am the beginning of the 1990s, and I must say with respect and admiration, have followed her work on detecting tax fraud in light fuel oils. That's when it was about me. also some kind of cargo station in Zábřeh, Moravia, in a region I am quite close to. We here today want to point out that it would not be good for the Czech Republic to turn into one such freight station, from which everything will be directed towards Agrofert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Jandák, Mr Komárek and Mr Chvojka are now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been watching this debate carefully from the start. Dear right, where the Bolsheviks are digging at you! Really. All you smell is envy! Your speeches! Mr. Chairman Fiala, I'm sorry, that was boring. [[Laughter.]] Mirek Kalousek - it had dynamics, but it was always the same. I'm sorry, my time is expensive. I'm very old. There's only one thing I want to tell you. [[Laughter.]] That's right! But I wanted to tell you the important thing. [[Emotionally:]] You trained us here last time, the so-called right, in that the country's head should be successful, rich, young people! We're gonna put one in and you're not gonna like it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u51	Mr Komárek, after him Mr Chvojka, after him Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, it's obvious how you know when a real actor comes out after a willing one. And I'm not gonna say another word to multiply those amateur lines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u53	Mr Chvojka, I beg you, Mr Fiala and Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a favorite movie Jáchyme, throw it in the machine, and it says, "This is an accident that happens once every ten years at most, so it happened to me today." I would like to apologize to Mrs Lorencová for the oversight that is taking place in my case, I hope, in ten years at most. But why was it an accident? I hope you understand. I like Mrs. Lorencová, and she always says, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, The law is wrong, society is wrong, everything is wrong. I got the impression, and sometimes I get the idea that she's just a member of that Dawn Club, that's why. [[Fun.]] So I'm sorry, I know she's not at the club, I apologized to her personally. I said I was opposed to everyone, so basically I wasn't wrong, but I'm sorry, I'll already know where you are and what kind of movement you're in. [[Laughing in the hall]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u55	I thank Mr Chvojka. Mr Petr Fiala, President of the ODS, with a point of fact, followed by Mr Blažek, Mr Komárek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u56	Mr Jandák, through Mr President, I have played theater all my youth, and believe me, I could play it here and you would not be bored. But I'll tell you something else. I didn't go into politics - unlike some others - to play theater to be a media and public entertainer. I went into politics to do good work for the public, for the people of this country. And I'll tell you something else. I'm not here to entertain you or you, you're not here to judge whether my speech is boring or funny, but you should think about whether I'm right or wrong about what I said. So I don't give a damn if you think it's funny, you laugh, you think it's a new comedy or not. My point is to listen to the contents of my words. If it's difficult for you, I'll be happy to explain it to you in the lobby over there, explain to you what I've been saying, what's the nature of the conflict of interest I'm talking about, what's the nature of your party's responsibility. And when you hear all this and understand it, you'll also understand that it's not boring. That's one of the biggest dramas that's been going on here lately. There's no need to stress the drama by playing. The drama exists in the conflict of interest that you and your political party are helping.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u57	I thank Mr Fial. Mr Jandák, after him Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u58	Mr Fialo through the President, two things. You've never been able to play theater well. First of all. And secondly, the politician is from having thoughts - you have thoughts - I have not yet understood them through this ramp. And politics involves the ability to convey your thoughts, and unfortunately, you don't do that. You've been messing around for half an hour and nobody knows anything. So don't be mad, the policy is to transfer it to the voters, explain it to them. And then the election will show if people understand you. I don't think they understood you very well. Maybe it was because of the bad news or the talent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u59	Mr Komárek, Mr Fiala and Mr Blažek, are now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u60	I'm unlucky I'm always after Jandák. I think, Mr President, that you have changed it on purpose, but what can be done. I want to share my feelings. I'm basically the first time in the overthrow of the government, physically, and I thought it was going to be dramatic and exciting that we were going to be dulled here. And I'm so glad it's such a lot of fun that gentlemen and ladies from the opposition are showing us and that we're all laughing. And Mr. Fial. I quite understand Mr. Jandák, because we were assessing whether the speech was boring, cheerful or well-played because it was completely meaningless. If he was big enough, we wouldn't judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u61	I thank Mr Komárek. Mr Fiala, Mr Blažek and Mr Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u62	Apparently, I'm hit with the speech when the coalition criticizes it like that. I'm just glad. And to Mr. Jandák, I would say, yes, maybe I wasn't a good actor in my youth. I evaluated it that way, and I also did not pursue an acting career, but I devoted myself to a scientific career in which I may have been good again. [[Members are laughing]] And you know what I think is worse? I think it's worse when someone is a good actor, goes into politics and remains an actor. That sounds a lot sadder to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u63	With another point of fact, Mr Blažek, Mr Kořenek, followed by Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for your word. I will also respond to Mr Jandák. He made such a deep mistake that if the voters understood, they would vote. On the contrary, I would say that often the results of the elections, including those of the last elections, prove that people still do not understand much than to understand. I can give you an example. You know, why we're here today is basically a certain turning point that doesn't really matter if we're going to talk about it for an hour or two, but essentially Andrej Babiš is now showing up in all colors. Basically, it's clear that he wasn't just interested in politics, he was interested in money, after all, that's how life works. It is not whether, Minister, you have little of them, it is a relative term, it is not enough for someone to have billions, someone to have five crowns, it is a relative term, and on you, Minister Babiš and with that Mr Jandák through the President, there is a sentence that I remembered in your speech, and that was once written by Tacitus about an emperor whose name we do not know today, about Emperor Galba. He wrote, and that's the last of the election, and there's the misunderstood: Many thought he was a good ruler if he wasn't ruling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u65	I thank Mr Blažek. Mr Kořenek, Mr Kováčik after him, Mr Jandák after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u66	Thank you, Mr President. You know, I'm not gonna judge who's ruling and what's how it is right now, but the only thing I know is that when I come to the region, people are gonna like me a lot less as a person than they are now, because somehow they've given away cards and they expect this country to follow and they're gonna do something for the benefit of the citizens, not that there's gonna be a comedy playing and telling what's being told here, personally attacking each other. I'm not attacking anyone. I am not saying that every government that rules is good, I am not saying that every government that rules is bad, but please, one thing I know for sure is that this republic is not run by a secretary from the Prime Minister's Secretariat who has not been elected, that it is not run by secret services or by someone in the background, there are no purses and so on. So let her rule, and let's focus on what we're supposed to do here, and let's not play that comedy, even though I respect the opposition's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u67	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Kováčik, Mr Jandák, followed by Mr Plzák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, when I first heard that something was going on in this meeting, it was the first word that came to my mind: it would be a farce. I also said that, and unfortunately, I am convinced, especially in the last few minutes, that this is a threat. And my colleague Kořenek said it right: When we return to our regions, people will like us a little less, because we simply and simply feel that we are dealing with who is a better or worse actor and so on, we are attacking each other personally. I have an idea. There's 24 logged in, there's some priority rights waiting for them to make their speech to the point. Let's get back to this thing, because then the time will come for the so-called holiday and meetings will be called for things that have not been discussed, and maybe the same people who are extending this place will be indignant that they won't be able to go on vacation. So again, please get to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u69	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Mr Jandák, Mr Plzák after him, Mr Svoboda after him, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u70	I'll be brief. Only to a colleague of mine, Fial. My colleague, I didn't take any offense to you. The fact that I said - that speech was boring didn't tell me anything. That's all. That's all I want to go back to. Keep insulting me. And, Pavel, I'm not gonna go classic on you, but please, at the beginning, I said you're just like those communists back in the day. They also wanted to rearrange the nation. And they kept saying, "The nation doesn't understand yet." Now you say it. I think it's because he understood a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u71	I thank Mr Jandák. Now, Mr Plzák, Mr Svoboda after him, Mrs Lorencová after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, Mr President. My serious colleagues, my colleagues, I understand what Mr Fiala wanted to say, but I don't believe it. He's telling us that there's something going on here that is unprecedented across Europe. I would just like to remind you that for years, the media tycoon Berlusconi led the Government of Italy, that even Prime Minister Fico had a rather large media sphere and has been elected to the Chamber of Deputies in Slovakia for years. [[Laughing in the hall and applause]] And then there was one thing, and that was the miraculous fortune of Mr. Řebíček's former Minister of Transport, at a time when his company Viamond was rich for his work at the Ministry of Transport, which then suddenly went bankrupt when he ceased to operate in this function. So we had this kind of thing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Svoboda, Mrs Lorencová, followed by Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor and allow me, Mr President, to say on your behalf to all the Members who are here. I'm not here to play theater! I'm here because I wanted something to change in politics. I've done a lot for that, I've earned a lot of money for it, and I'd love to get back to what we're dealing with here. We're dealing with a fatal conflict of interest and a change in what was before I criticized that state funds were going into private hands. We're here because the only thing you're doing in your electoral program is what you're not doing. That means the major fight against corruption and all the thieves is over! Because it's just a struggle to transfer the funds to someone else. It's about a new distribution of state money, and that's what you're talking about today!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u75	I thank Mr Svoboda. Now, Mrs Lorencová, with a point of fact, after which Mr Zahradník. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u76	Mr President, colleagues, listening to all this here, I wonder how much part of this House relies on the short memory of voters, on the short memory of citizens. How much they're counting on a couple of years to go by and they'll all forget what we've been digging out of and where we've gone. The memory of the nation is a very tricky thing. I personally believe that a number of political parties, not only specific Members, may not have to do anything about the demise of their political parties and their mandates. All you have to do is continue with the policy they've chosen. They chose a policy of arrogance and disdain for the citizens of this nation, for their voters. And I think it's enough in itself to slowly, but surely find themselves in the trap of history.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u77	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Mr Zahradník, Mr Beznoska, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am still following this debate from the position of beginner in the House. This is the first time I have experienced this moment when distrust of the government would be expressed. And one thing caught my eye. All those coalition MPs, whether they are from social democracy or the YES movement, are getting out and assessing who the actor is, remembering what governments have ruled us here in the past, as those governments have been established, but no one has yet said and mentioned the main substance of the matter. No one said, "Mr. Babiš is not in any conflict of interest." Or, if he's in some hypothetical conflict of interest, the conflict doesn't bring any profits to his company. It is possible, and we will certainly see that everyone knows and waits for Mr. Babiš to come out alone and tell us his defense from this speaker's desk himself. He's going to say that no millions, ten million, hundreds of millions, billions to his Agrofert business as its function doesn't flow. Or maybe in the end, it's all true, and the government coalition just has to stand down, sit down, use its 100-member majority, and simply reject the proposal. But that doesn't change the fact that the conflict of interest here is that the billions are flowing into Agrofert, and unfortunately, they're going to be flowing for some time, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u79	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u80	Thank you for the floor. I would like to encourage Mr Kováčik to return to the substance of the matter, and that is actually a very simple matter today. The question of why we're meeting today is how much Mr. Andrej Babiš has earned in the government and how much he'll make. Let us return to this subject, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u81	I thank Mr Blažek. That was the last point of fact. Mr. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip with priority rights now. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u82	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Madames and gentlemen, let me first say before my own speech that I do not consider it appropriate to make fun of one of the most serious constitutional institutes, expressed distrust of the government. I consider this to be an undignified course of action by this House, and let all who have contributed to this undignified course, for example, through the abuse of factual remarks. The second thing I would like to say, which was said, at least in a nutshell, by the President of the club Pavel Kováčik, that the government certainly does not comply with our electoral agenda. We would treat her differently than the strongest opposition party. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that when we acted after the establishment of the current government to express confidence in this government, as requested by the Chamber of Deputies, the KSČM MEP had more questions than answers. The only thing that was clear and clearly positive is that those who led the country into a marasm, a growing deficit, and a spiral of debt that only deepened, both by bad politics and an incredible degree of corruption and further tunneling of taxpayers' money will not participate in the government. That's what really upsets me the most at the time. We expected this government to stop with the policy of reducing the wages of police officers, firefighters, paramedics and other public sector employees, because it was, in my opinion, and not just my court, the worst crime of Nečasův and Kalouskův's government. She took money from those who serve this country in various tightened tours, regardless of the weather, for day or night, for Saturdays, Sundays, just to have the public contracts from which the money flowed in an incredible way. That had to be changed. It was necessary to change not to include such lords of the Deputy Minister Šišková or other Deputy Ministers or ministers directly on these contracts. The country was more than angry citizens in the spring of 2013. And we can be glad that the extraordinary elections in 2013 have calmed the situation. But the government statement itself, when we judged him a year and a quarter ago, did not contain a large number of promises with which the government parties succeeded in the election. I respect what the Prime Minister has said here that this is a legitimate political government arising from the elections. But the promises that have been thrown away are very important and people are waiting for the government coalition to act on them. Moreover, some ministers did not guarantee and do not guarantee the fulfilment of electoral or government promises. The KSČM club at that time very carefully gave the newly created government a chance, although we did not vote for the vote of confidence, because we do not have that much confidence in the government, but we also did not vote against the government. It doesn't mean we're not an opposition party. We have been waiting for the government as a whole to behave and individual ministers to manage their departments and manage them. At the same time, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia had at least an interest in the government's minimal success given the responsibility it bears in more than half the regions of our country and in many and many cities and municipalities. [[16.00 hours]] Now we have more clarity. Indeed, the government has abandoned many promises in one and a quarter years. Some are no longer ministers, and some may not remain ministers, and government promises turn into disputes within the coalition. The YES movement finally made public at its summit for citizens that it is the right-wing side with everything. At his convention, KDU-ČSL threatens his government coalition partner that his goal is to break the regional coalitions if he closes them with someone other than them. Political culture, and we have witnessed it moments ago in the shootout, is moving back into vulgarisms, but instead of a material act, it is full of senseless ideological floscules without deeper content and mainly facts. If I had to proceed to an inventory of electoral promises and reality, I'd have a simplified job. The Prime Minister has calculated what the government has done well, and therefore there is no need to inventory it. But in the inventory of electoral promises and non-realizations, virtually. What's not in the government's statement is enough. I'll start with church restitutions. For a simple reason, I will tell you that the bill from the workshop of government social democracy, which is still between the first and second reading, has been here since December 2013, points to something that is not healthy. Either you have to have the courage to reject it and say that you won't fulfill it, that you promised falsely, or you won't have the courage and we'll have it here, it'll be here, and the government's proposal won't be discussed. Then don't be surprised that the opposition, either from the right or from the left, will tell you that you can't rule, you're not even able to enforce your own proposals. When I look at progressive taxation. YES, the Andrej Babiš movement was able to reverse one of the fundamental promises of social democracy, change the tax system to progress. This means reducing taxes to the lowest income groups as they were here by 2006, except for the 10 or 12 percent and increasing taxes for those with high incomes. The most progressive, though neoliberal states, such as Japan, have such a great tax progression that you can't even imagine. Not to mention Europe and the Nordic countries. But you've got yourself cornered, so finally admit it. I am asking for a property return here, at least seriously, those which I consider to be truly very responsible members of the various government parties. Please do not want to wipe the eyes of the citizens of the Czech Republic with this proposal and make a law which will be a real property return. Which will not just be a kind of paint on the facade of democracy of the Czech Republic and will not be as if the point of your government statement has been fulfilled. And it won't mean anything, and it won't be a major anti-corruption measure. It cannot be admitted, and it is actually said by everyone that there is a conflict of interest in the first Vice-President of the Government. Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and I believe him, still thinks the state can be run as a company. I thought his education, his intelligence, his abilities would understand that it wasn't. The state is not a joint stock company. You can't cross out one third of the citizens in the state, you can't release them, you have nowhere to go. You can't turn those who are at work into unemployed people and not pay them out of the social system because you have to move them to another country, and nobody here wants that. And in a conflict of interest, we must realise that politics, top policy at the post of Deputy Prime Minister or Minister or Members, is, of course, full-time work. So the Vice-President of the Government will have to decide how he will continue to control his companies or whether he will be Vice-President of the Government. It's just his decision. Of course, I cannot count, like other colleagues from the right or from social democracy, whether that or that law will bring so much money to a particular company of a particular person. It offends me to explain that there was a law prepared to buy land here, and you can imagine how many are being bought out when the D3 motorway in South Bohemia began to be built. And the first report, which is that the law was earned by a particular company of the Prime Minister. You think somebody's gonna believe that I was gonna move the land buyout? They'll suspect me of supporting the financial transactions of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. And I was really interested, and for that I have a lot of witnesses from the left, from the right, from those who have absolutely nothing in common with the political parties, that we have been working in the D3 motorway support group for more than ten years now. Everyone knows how traumatic it is for South Bohemia that this north-south move together with the D8 in the Ústí Region is not functional and that the Czech Republic is thus essentially not fulfilling its obligations in the transport policy of the European Union. It was also one of the worst-negotiated problems, or policies, if you wish, with the European Union. If I looked at the promises you made in the government statement, and I don't really want to talk for long. Look where the Supreme Audit Office law is. Why are you acting like ODS and TOP 09 in the last parliamentary term? Why are you unable to adopt this constitutional law and finally strengthen the law itself on the Supreme Audit Office after the amendment of the Constitution so that we can make public funds, funds, foundations and so on? Don't you see that money will be drowned there, like it did after 2000 in newly established regions and their various companies? Haven't we been through enough and we have to say it again? Such a mistake? Do we have the responsibility of politicians for this activity, for what is happening in the Czech Republic? Or you don't want to carry it and you just want to be in politics? Think about it. Each of us has to change our minds. I'm not talking about what you promised in the government's priorities about usury. There's not even a comma written about it! The former Minister of Justice isn't here, and I don't see the present Minister either. But that he'd at least put a mark on it so there'd be something to talk about! There's nothing at all. This is a serious problem. No state in the centre of Europe, and even in the 28th grade, has such disastrous provisions that allow non-banking firms to steal from hundreds of thousands of people! When I look at one of the pillars of what was happening here in the previous year 2013, the Act on the General referendum. Where are we? Where is he? What does the Minister do? Nothing, I guess. Because that bill on the general referendum, whether from the workshop of social democracy or from the workshop of other political parties, KDU-ČSL, then it was Cyril Svoboda, from our workshop here was presented in various variants, and there is not much to choose from. At least nine times. And yet there's nothing here in a year and a half! Don't make fun of these people. I'm serious. And now I'm gonna stop at one of your points. That's the Civil Service Act. Congratulations, Dear Government Coalition, on joining the TOP 09 and the ODS on this bill. Instead of depoliticizing the state administration, you're gonna block their people there who are gonna hurt you happily. Ask our brotherly party AKEL, the Communist Party in Cyprus, what happened when their opponents were blocked there, how the AKEL ministers went into government and how they ended up. It is your responsibility to whom you have joined and what law you have passed! You didn't have to suffer anything like that, including the obstructions that were here! There was a law that was much better and better in 2002, which was discussed with the European Commission, and yet you got pushed into a corner and it's on your desk. [[16.10 hours]] Now let me do one thing. At present, it is evident that the abuse of security services, intelligence services here has been a very busy thing in the past. It's in the courtrooms today. I'm asking when you'll present it. When a certain shift happens so that this can't happen again. That's what citizens are very interested in. And they're afraid the so-called Big Brother isn't sleeping. I believe that it is not enough to list what you have done, but an inventory of what is ahead of you and how in negotiations on such a serious matter as the question of trust to the government that you should tell us. Do we want to do this, or did we leave the point? And please, I would really expect more professionalism in your political actions. Especially from those who aren't here for the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u83	I thank Vice-President Filip. Now with priority rights, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u84	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to make this very brief, if possible. I realize that if someone here says that his speech will be short or that it will be brief, that it is not true regularly - I will try. Yes, we are experiencing growth, and this growth is not only caused by our government, but is partly caused by the atmosphere. The fact that we have experienced one of the most difficult situations of economic growth in the European Union in recent years is always about the willingness of companies to invest, the willingness of people to spend, the atmosphere in society. And I think we've succeeded. I might as well repeat what was here. So very briefly. Unfortunately, the breach of what is standard and non-standard occurred during ODS, TOP 09 and Public Affairs, because Vít Bárta was also the owner of one company, was the Minister of Transport. And what was going on there, I think that even colleague Stanjura was experiencing what it was like, Mr Řebíček and others were talking about. I believe that this decision was certainly not an easy one for us, and if there was another alternative, we would certainly consider it. But we're in a situation where there's a better solution or if you want a less bad solution isn't. If you want to knock down the government and want the president here to appoint another government, I don't understand why you're criticizing it. If you want this government to continue here, but with the support of other parties, other parties, just without us, who at least in the coalition of values that are within the European Union, NATO, were issues that concern Russia's aggression, which concerns other foreign policy areas, so that the government stops accentating. I don't know if it's better for you. It seems to me that you're just trying to move on in this way with one single subject that you don't have, and that's anti-babishism. Well, I expected more. I must appreciate the fact that she's often with you, but in this case, I'm not really sure about her. It is undoubtedly important for us that ČSSD has said that it does not want to go to government with TOP 09 or with ODS. And I'm not a genius mathematician, but I know how to count 200 Members. And I don't see any less bad coalition here, and I think it makes sense for it to go on. It's because she's done a lot of things, too. I am glad that we have managed to put 80 percent of our priorities in the programming statement. Fifty percent of them are met and we're going to try for more. Of course, we're not exactly comfortable with everything, but that's the way it is. I think you and Radek John, as Home Secretary, weren't entirely satisfied either. But that's just the way it is sometimes, and I think the positives still prevail. As far as there's another option. I mean, your members didn't even doubt it. I don't want to name them, but they clearly said there was no other way of ruling. So I don't understand you very well. The last thing I want to say. I also appreciated a certain substance and opposition when they asked me about the convention - and here I must strongly turn against the President of the KSČM Filip. Because what he said is untrue. It's a thing that insults me and totally twists my words. I reserve it for you to say that KDU-ČSL threatened social democracy, that if he's not with us in coalitions, we'll have something to do with it. Please don't make fun of people. Don't make fools of us. I think he understands what he said. What you said is an absolute lie, and it's a disgrace! This isn't about threatening or about us being in that coalition. Please don't say it, it's not true. I just said that we think it's time for the next election to have another alternative and for it to be possible and sometimes inevitable for the Communists to get out of the leadership of the regions. And so do we think it's not good for high school to be run by communists. That's all. No threats, no conditions. I believe we can talk about ideas here. We often disagree. And that's good. I think that's right, because if we start agreeing with the Communists, there's something wrong with us or with you. But please tell the truth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u85	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Now two factual points. First of all, Mr Petr Bendl. After that, Mr. Miroslav Opálka. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond to Vice-President Bělobrádek when she says there is no better solution. He's talking about a government solution. I'd argue with that, but okay. However, when he said that no one was threatened within the coalition and the coalition was working on a good consensus, why do you vote for Agrofert's advantage of biofuels to have roughly a five-billion-dollar advantage? So why do you vote in favour of the conflict of interest that the Minister of Finance has in the government, why do you support it? So when, as you call it, no one threatens you, and there is no government better solution? Why do your Members support these five billion for Agrofert? You're the ones who give us the ammunition to pick it up. Because there has never been such a thing in the past, so you need to confess to the voters and explain to them why, if no one is blackmailing you, as you say, and you have no conditions, why do you agree to make that five billion Agrofert in the next year?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u87	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, let me also respond briefly to the comment by President KDU-ČSL on the issue of school management. What a horror it was from his mouth that the Communists were leading education in some regions. It's like the communists are directing the teachers, dictating what they should and shouldn't say. But it's not like that. This is about the symbol. And, of course, politics works with symbols. But I guess the horror is different. The fact that the communists are handling it. And that when they left the Karlovy Vary Region, those school representatives applauded the communist standing up. And that's the horror!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u89	I thank Mr Opálek. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman TOP 09 Karel Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. Mr Hájek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u90	Mr President, honourable Members, this debate is very interesting for one reason, namely the following. It is not that we believe that a government that has been elected by a majority has no right to rule. He has every right to rule and wishes them a conjucture, so they have a cheerful reign. So be it. That's not the point. We do not want to overthrow this government at this time, but we must express our distrust for another reason. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't about $5 billion that's going anywhere. So much has been stolen in this country that apparently five billion doesn't matter anymore. It is something completely different: that our democracy is thereby losing the legitimate trust of its constituents and citizens. The Prime Minister here said he was fulfilling the government's agenda. Maybe I did. I didn't want to check. But he certainly doesn't do what his side stands for. This is much more important because the Social Democratic Party has been elected because it has defended certain principles of social democracy so far. Some people blame me for living in Austria for a long time, which is true, but then I had the opportunity to watch the following affair. When Social Democratic Chancellor Bruno Kreisky joined, he was a great politician, he was, dare I say, a statesman, so he called a very young and extremely gifted finance minister doktor Androsch, who was admired by everyone, was the star of the then social democracy. However, after some time, it was said that the said Minister of Finance also has property and conducts tax consultancy. Chancellor Kreisky was convinced that it was not possible for the Social Democratic Minister of Finance to have a tax consultancy firm at the same time. It was, of course, almost ridiculous, compared to the amounts that we're dealing with today. But Bruno Kreisky was a convinced social democrat and made sure that his party's reputation did not suffer to abide by the principle of social democracy. Here, however, we have a shining example of a party that, in its time, has taken on completely different ideals, and today supports a large-scale capitolist, a big businessman who, if he is so successful, is really brazenly robbing the state. It robs the state in a form that is truly remarkable. It was mentioned earlier that there was a conflict of interest. Unfortunately, we've been through this phase. It is now happening that the Ministry of Finance's policy is being aligned and adapted to Agrofert's business plans, which is a unique scene in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues from social democracy, does this correspond to the ideals of social democracy? Does the support to this crime also correspond to the fact that the finance minister, at the same time, wins the offer at the state forests, his company wins? Do you think this corresponds to the ideas and principles of social democracy? I fear that the founders of your party a hundred years ago and many members of the very honorable Social Democrats would be ashamed of this support of your fellow Minister of Finance. But it is not the support of the Minister of Finance, it is the support of Mr. Babiš's entrepreneur. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the YES movement: You have joined and won to a large extent in the election by declaring a ruthless fight against corruption. I don't know if you were explaining to the citizens at the time that if it's not done secretly, it doesn't pay off, in broad daylight, public money is simply taken, government contracts are taken, it's not corruption anymore. That's just privatizing the state. You were elected because you promised to fight corruption, and that is the result of your policy now. I do not know if, honourable Members of social democracy, of the YES movement, if you can reconcile with your conscience the policy of trust to the Minister of Finance, who so shamelessly robs the Republic. I, as a social democrat, would be truly ashamed of that, even as a member of the YES. Remember, as Masaryk did in a similar situation, the Social Democrats in Europe have behaved, and please note that you are taking responsibility when it comes to talking about this government, that it has admitted to diverting state money into a private company publicly in broad daylight, in secret, that you have supported it and agreed. That's really something remarkable. And here I am asking Christian democratic politicians. I had the honor of being invited to your convention in Zlin. It was an uplifting experience, but excuse me - is the promotion of Mr Babiš's business and business in line with the ideals of Christian democracy? Christian social policies? I don't know. I've known the Christian Democratic and Christian Social Movement for 50 years of my life, but I've never really seen anything like it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, please think about this and at least ask that some of you maintain the honor of your parties and the honor of your movements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u91	Thank you to President Schwarzenberg. Mr Josef Hájek, Mr. Josef Hájek, is now the first duly applied for without prior rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u92	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, when I always walk in front of that counter, I remember my original profession. I'm not gonna do it this time because everyone here already knows what I've done before, so definitely not. Anyway, my previous profession has brought me a number of things, a lot of knowledge, and it has also proved in me that I can say what I think. And I'm not afraid to say it out loud anywhere, anytime, and to anyone. [[16.30 hours]] In this context, I don't know about you, but I was deeply touched by Mr Kalousek's words last Wednesday. And in that context, I dare to present my performance. On Wednesday 20 May, Mr Kalousek had his day again. Nestor of actor amateurism, who has been performing here for almost 20 years, was once again under the influence of alcohol. This time, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, but under the steam, you were so out of control. I don't want to and I won't comment on your performance. On Wednesday, May 20th, you were a villain to me of the fourth price group, and I don't respond to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u93	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I'm asking you not to use words and words like rudeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. During the debate on the procedure for voting in Parliament's press number 417, when you were still in relatively good shape, you told the honourable House that after the committee's meeting, you examined your conscience. Mr Kalousek, as you have said many times, you have made a false statement this time. How could you ask your conscience if you don't have one? Mr Kalousek through Mr President, you not only have no conscience, you have no character. Only an uncharacteristic person can lie without a spell even when it's absolutely conclusive that he's lying. [[Members on the right are banging into the benches.]] Your excuse that you weren't under the influence of alcohol because you were still online under surveillance is an embarrassing and undignified person who has the ambition to be Prime Minister of this country. I am not abstinence, so I can distinguish the smell of plums from the slivovitz of Suché Lozi. Unfortunately, the cameras monitoring the House do not have that capability. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to ask you three questions in relation to the appearance of Mr Kalousek in our honourable House: Do you know, please, colleagues, any business, office or company with 200 employees that would allow one long-term employee to work almost continuously under the influence of an addictive substance? Do you know, please, colleagues, any business, office or company with 200 employees that would allow one long-term employee to block the work of other 199 employees under the influence of addictive substances? Do you know, please, colleagues, a business, an office or a company with 200 employees that would allow one long-term employee to insult colleagues with impunity in a state of strong intoxication with addictive substances? I can tell you that I am no similar business, office or firm that would tolerate this until I arrive at the Chamber of Deputies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, like many of you, I have many years of experience working at the company. There were clear rules at the firm where I worked. If a worker worked under the influence of an addictive substance, he was either fined or discharged. Unfortunately, in our honourable House, some still applaud a man who consistently violates the rules. Members of the TOP 09 and the Mayors often accuse us of being blind in our ANO movement when we support our President. Yes, we support it, because it is the only way for our citizens to emerge from the political marasm that you have brought our beautiful country to during your co-government. As I mentioned in my speech, MEPs from TOP 09 and Mayors constantly accuse us of being blind. You, colleagues and colleagues from the TOP 09 Club and the starosta, seem to have lost more of those human senses. Only a blind, deaf, and unscented person can argue that your club president was sober last Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, excessive alcohol consumption can be corrected. It is not easy, but with the help of others it can be done. In this context, I would like to ask the medical capacity of our ANO Membership for assistance here. Professor Vyzula, Doctors Nykl, Plzák, Kasal, Janulík and Volčík, please give Mr Kalousek a hand. I know that you have been deeply affected by Mr Kalousek's lying and defensive words made last Wednesday at your address. Nevertheless, I beg you to fulfill the Hippocratic Hippokratův and help him fight the demon of alcohol. I think that it will also be the greatest reward for you when Mr Kalousek enters our Chamber with a firm step and finally speaks a sober speech at the stand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u95	I thank Mr Hájek. Mr Hájek, I apologize, according to tradition in this House, you were the first duly registered without prior rights. This has earned you the right to be the rapporteur of this point of our negotiations. [[Smile in the hall.]] Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u96	Thank you for the floor. Just very briefly. Since I have been approached, I feel the need to respond, and I am sorry to burden the only relevant discussion, and this is the debate on the conflict of interests of the Minister of Finance. I entered this House with a firm step last Wednesday, and I stand by every word I have said, for I am convinced that not only is it not to be stolen, but it is not even supposed to be. And that there's been a robbery in broad daylight, there's no dispute about that. The second day, when opponents did not have the slightest argument that they could somehow justify their hypocritical actions in the vote of Mr Rais, they blew a rumor into the public media. And I am convinced that those who released it were under the influence. Under the influence of aesthebacus methods, mechanisms, misinformation and slander. That's probably all you can really do. Otherwise, I insist that not only must not steal, but it does not, and that is the only reason why we are discussing this point today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u97	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr Martin Novotný, then Mr Blažek, then Mr Šarapatka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u98	Colleagues and colleagues, I will try to make the shortest possible factual remark during this parliamentary term. I had an intense impression that Mr Hájek's speech made it clear that he wrote it himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u99	With another factual remark, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Šarapatka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor. I remembered when my colleague Hájek spoke, about four years ago, I was neither an MP nor a minister, then there was also a vote about distrust of the government and Petr Nečas, the Prime Minister of the time, said: Well, we will listen to dirt all day today and then we will go home again. Mr. Ambassador Chvojka has already quoted a film here today, so I'll say another one. She's a new age, she's not throwing dirt at the government right now, but she's throwing it completely backwards. And it's in that movie Heritage, a new era, so I don't mess it up right now - the guest is firing the waiter. So Mr. Hájek turned it all over like this. It is not true that Mr Kalousek was not in control during the Wednesday meeting. I can testify to that myself, because for the first time after my old acquaintance today, I have rightly received a strong complaint from him that I disturbed him during his speech, for which I now publicly apologize once more. But what he said here obviously had a head and a heel, and it was mostly true. It's just a lie that he didn't control himself, and it needs to be said here. I don't like invectives, but Mr. Hájek will, I hope, take a joke. When you appointed the doctors here, I would add doktor Janulík to the list, which is a gynecologist. And in the logic of your speech, he should examine you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u101	I thank Mr Blažek. Mr Šarapatka, after him Mr Lank. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u103	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. I will also ask Mr Blažek to remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u104	Personally, I don't like the law that supports the further subsidization of biofuels either, but what's going on here is exactly what they say when a thief screams catch a thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u105	I thank Mr Šarapatek. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Lank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u106	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to get involved in this conversation about whether anyone was drunk or not. And for God's sake, I'm here to defend my colleague Kalousek. However, I must respond to the words of Mr Hájek, who here has repeatedly and several times compared the Chamber of Deputies to the company. I think it is about time we all realized that the Chamber of Deputies and this state is not a company, even though your President thinks so. And that's why we're here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u107	There. Thank you, Mr Lank. Now with priority rights, Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[Mr Okamura suggests he has no prior rights.]] I see. Sorry. Mr Okamura no longer has priority rights. I apologize to Mr Okamur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u108	I've reminded myself that I no longer have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u109	Yes, thank you, thank you. I'll remember that by now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u110	But I don't really care. There. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on today's motion to voice distrust to the government. I would have found, figuratively speaking, a hundred and one reasons to distrust this government. But if Mr Kalousek seizes this initiative, if screams about conflict of interest and fraud come from the mouth of a man who has been actively helping to loot the state register for many years, then it reminds me of the proverb the thief is screaming, catch the thief. Joining such a person is not only a nonsense, but also a planetary shame. Just remember the fact that it was Mr. Kalousek who claimed the duty of the Ministry of Defence not to buy directly, but through a middleman, through a friend of Mr. Kalousek's Mr. Háva. Machinations at the Ministry, whose finances Mr Kalousek ran, culminated in the death of several innocent parachutists. I'm not saying that Mr. Kalousek robbed the state register for himself, but I do know that money from overpriced and unnecessary contracts went to the party cashiers if not directly. This was also the case with the parachute murder contract received by Mr. Andrlík's company, a member of KDU-ČSL, a former partner of Mr. Kalousek's time. And I could continue with more cases, but I won't delay my speech. If I wanted to express my distrust to Mr Sobotka's government, then the most fundamental reason would be to attack the sovereignty of our country, when this April the MEPs of ČSSD and KDU-ČSL voted in favour of mandatory quotas for the admission of immigrants to the Czech Republic. Scandalously, someone has the audacity to suggest to a sovereign state the obligation to accept any immigrants. That such a dictatorship is voted by a Czech MEP borders on treason. And I believe that, therefore, they voted against the will of their constituents, so I hope against the will of most of their colleagues in the Czech Parliament. The Prime Minister is vocal about refusing immigrant quotas. However, the agreement is quite clear: in the Czech Republic, we are opposed to losing voters, but in Brussels, the quotas are equally against the will of the majority of the Czech Republic and the Czech Parliament. This is exactly what the April vote of government MEPs, but also of this year's decision by this government to adopt the first 70 immigrants from the Middle East. I would like to remind you that there are no other 525 refugees who should be assigned to the Czech Republic. Even here, of course, I'm absolutely against it. Since the situation here is such that plastic lids are collected for Czech and Moravian children to be on their medical care, and our seniors have so low pensions that it is impossible to live a dignified life. First, we must take proper care of our own citizens, who helped build our Republic out of their taxes. If this government does not prevent the influx of immigrants into the Czech Republic, as there is no indication, and the actions of this government are even exactly the opposite, then I insist that the government in no way allow Muslims to be accepted, because they have no potential to live with our culture and with us. It's the biggest lie that a Muslim adapts. Nowhere, in any western developed country, there was no acceptable integration of Muslims in any Western democracy. Whenever and wherever they allowed a larger number of Muslims to settle, they almost immediately began questioning local laws and forcing the government to give them benefits against local residents. Of course, few people know that the European Commission, apart from the 2.63 percent of the 20,000 refugees for the Czech Republic, has approved another quota of 2.98 percent for the Czech Republic from the total number of legal and illegal immigrants flocking to the European Union. That was 650,000 last year. If the expected quota was introduced, it would be 20,000 or more immigrants each year for the Czech Republic. This is one county city full of Islamic young men every year. I remind you that most of them control Kalashnikov, but they don't read a dot, they don't speak a language, and they don't know any craft. Ladies and gentlemen, let me stress that such an influx of Muslim immigrants is truly deadly to the whole of European civilization and that the only systemic solution is zero tolerance for illegal immigration. And this brings me back to why I speak so widely about these things. When it comes to trust or distrust of the government, it should depend mainly on how much the government fulfils its programme and how much it defends the interests of our nation and the state. Not from the screams of someone with butter on his head. On the one hand, I have reservations, and great reservations, about the current government, not only regarding access to immigration, but also about rejecting the fundamental laws that we put forward, for example. on a referendum that the government coalition even has in its programming statement, but has not even submitted anything in a year and a half. Just idle talk. And she rejected our law a year ago. It also applies to usury when our law, which I presented last year, was rejected by the government, but the government MEPs themselves did not submit anything. I also have great reservations that the government has rejected our proposal for a law on the material and criminal liability of top politicians. This government also rejected our proposal for a law on direct choice and recallability of politicians this February. And this government also makes life harder for businessmen, which I, on the contrary, support, since I have been one of them for 20 years, and I am also active on the trade list. On the other hand, the alternative offered, consisting of Miroslav Kalousek, ODS and the Dawn Pučists, is certainly not a better option for this country. I will not vote with Mr Kalousek and Mr Kalousek. Nor do I have absolute confidence in the current government. Therefore, I and Radim Fiala for our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, will not support this political theater and we will not be part of this political comedy, and we will therefore abstain in the vote. We will express our position specifically by leaving the O.R. when voting on trust, because we will not vote with the government or with Mr Kalousek either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u111	I thank my colleague Okamur. Another duly registered member is Mr Radim Holeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u112	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, voting on the government's distrust is a very serious matter. This is the first time I have experienced such a thing, and so allow me to return this debate to the essence of the problem. Oligarchy, Greek oligarchia, is a form of government in which only a handful of prominent persons, most often members of the richest class with political influence or members of the army, hold political power. The term oligarchy may also refer to the state unit in which this type of government is applied. The name comes from the combination of the Greek words oligon - little - and archo - rule. In my opinion, we live in a time that cannot be called anything other than the time of the rapid onset of the oligarchic government of conflict of interest. And the power of the prime minister of a democratic state, the power of a democratic government is just as great as the oligarchic tendencies he can face. Unfortunately, I see today's state as very weak, because neither the government nor the Prime Minister are able to face these dangers. [[16.50 hours]] The main problems of this government are: The problems of this government are traditionally taxes. The amount of the tax quota, the amount of the wage levies, the amount of the company's effective taxation, had already been tilted. Today, however, all of this extremely overlaps with the tax collection itself. Bad tax collection is the real problem of this country, which at the moment affects the everyday life of our communities. Ask the mayors of YES at home, from social democracy, or from the people's community, what they'll tell you. The problem with this government is that it has absolutely no concrete idea of pension reform. You put the second pillar on ice, but that's the best you could do. In fact, social democracy does not know how to address the issue of pensions, and other coalition partners are no better off. The problem with this government is health. The government canceled a decent medical fee, the finance minister says from time to time that it was probably a mistake, and somehow he's just thinking about reinstating them. Inconclusiveness, impulsive decision-making, regardless of the consequences. This is a systemic huge problem for this government. The problem with this government is the winding-up attitude towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs simply do not want the state to hold their hand and control them forever. They only want the state to create conditions for them, let's say, to set boundaries in which they could take care of themselves with their own hard work. Instead, the government is figuring out how to push this economy's engine as hard as possible. How to view everyone as cheaters, for, as we know, all stealing. Bureaucracy, bullying honest people in the fight against dishonesty, control, regulation instead of free market. The problem with this government is education. You can hear more about the problems of education now, but good solutions are not coming. Unpopular solutions, such as reducing a huge number of secondary schools, are being postponed. Instead, efforts are made to change what works well. I am thinking of developing a change in regional education funding instead of tightening up the current situation. I have long criticized the lack of funding for science, research and innovation. The region for which I was elected, i.e. The Ústí Region, flooded the following billboards before the elections: We'll push through a well-functioning state. - What state did social democracy have in mind? The oligarchy-est beach guy? We can give people jobs. - Yes, unemployment in the Ústí Region is still the highest in the Republic and we will not get below 10 percent. The increase in minimum wages will drive a line on the edge of red numbers of businessmen to work. And your experiments with registration cash registers? Same thing. Clear rules for everyone, no exceptions. - That was a beautiful billboard. Yesterday's Ustecký diary: "People reported to us from troubled localities a cluster of inadaptable residents. They described assaults, threats, verbal and physical assaults. Our office records a number of violations against civil coexistence and public order. The mayor of the town district of Neštěmice Iveta Tomková described last night's disturbance to the peace of the night." End of quote. Decent people from my region still haven't gotten the signal that the rules apply to all alike and that it's worth more to work than to roll at home on doses. Minister Dienstbier will arrive at the Litvínov housing estate Janov, but he can't help. You have also failed to make a criminal offence as a result of the chaining. We're not politicians, we're working. - Well, we've had a chance to see the real thing over the past period. Just remember Mr. Komárek's holiday, Mr. Babiš's skier or the adventure trips of Prime Minister Sobotka around the regions, for example, behind giraffes to the Olomouc Zoo. All at the time they were supposed to be sitting here in the House. We're a capable nation, but we're driven by a klutz. - Yes. I have no choice but to agree with the marketing creatives of Agrofert's political division. So our children don't have to be ashamed of us. - Well, that would be good so they don't have to be ashamed of us, it would be good for this government to end. Just so my children don't be ashamed of me, oligarchic and left-wing government I don't give a damn. Finally, I would like to make one more small but strong opposition request, not only for agriculture: Less rape for the Republic, more sense in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u113	Thank you, Mr Holečka. Before I give the floor with priority rights to the Minister of Finance, Mr Komárek made a factual comment. I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u114	I am sorry, Minister, thank you, Mr President, I will not interrupt, but Mr -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u115	You're not interrupting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u116	Mr. Holeček taught the House about a Greek word. I am far from lecturing adult people, that is not the case, only I would remind Mr Holečka, through Mr President, that Platón, who introduced the word oligarchia into political literature, considered oligarchy to be a slightly better system than democracy. Of course, we've moved on since then. We see things differently. Therefore, I ask Mr Holeček through Mr President, and all the others, so that we do not use the word oligarcha, Baťa was not an oligarcha, simply Bill Gates is not an oligarcha. Decent, rich, successful people are not oligarchs. They're decent, rich, successful people. It is a shameful Bolshevik rhetoric that wannabe right-wing people use. Thank you. Please call words by real names.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u117	On the other hand, Mr Holeček's point of view. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u118	Just for a very short time. I've never noticed Bill Gates or Baťa doing politics in my life. Thank you. . [[Voice reactions across the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u119	Now with priority rights, Mr. Finance Minister and Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor. I'll ask my colleagues not to shout at each other, even if they're right. [[Laughs of Members.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that I have become the centre of this House and, above all, the opposition. But you forgot that you begat me. You, corrupt right hand. I was your voter. I was an ODS voter. So if you hadn't been stealing, cheating and fulfilling the program, I wouldn't be standing here. I could have enjoyed the money. So I don't know what you're accusing me of right now. I have a conflict of interest. Yes. Because I built a company from scratch, which had four employees in January 1993, with the support of the American City Bank, which now employs 35,000 people. And the turnover of my companies with the state is a ridiculous 1,1%. And he hasn't changed. Ridiculous 1,1%. For 240 billion unconsolidated turnover, it's 1.1 percent. Mr. zahradník's right. Yes, billions go by, but where do they go? Last year, 2 billion 314 million were flowing from my companies to health and social insurance. 743 million were spent on corporate tax in the state budget. I don't have any offshore like your friends. And so are some of you. You're holding your companies offshore. Also, as a natural person, I've done CZK 128 million in the last two years. And I also have a foundation that gives away $40 million a year because I am grateful to this country where I succeeded. And I went into politics because of you. I was looking at your guru on September 2, 2011, as he said, "There is no corruption here." Then they asked me a million euros for the veto on the biofuels. At the time. I think you've forgotten that. So I work for free. My salary and all the income go to the singles foundation. I pay for everything myself. I paid for the trip to the United States myself. I didn't take the special. [[17,00 hours]] So I didn't abuse any conflict of interest. I'm not gonna ruin my name for some change, 'cause it's change. For me, it's change. [[Laughs of Members of the KSČM. Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] Let's start with the biofuels. The Prime Minister has already said so. Everyone knows about biofuels. Have you forgotten this national action plan of the Czech Republic for energy from renewable sources? Well, there's clear evidence. [[It shows the azure plates.]] You are November 8, 2012 - your government Nečas and Kalousek - have decided to extend the biofuels. Then why are you still lying? It's written here. "In the context of the gradual increase of biofuels as alternative fuels from renewable energy sources in transport, it must be based on the real fact that the 10% target in 2020 cannot be achieved by adding biofuels to diesel and diesel fuels at a low rate.' So you guys made the decision here. You set it up. And you say five billion? At least you could make a deal. Kalousek here has been lying about five billion that don't exist for two months. That's how Mr. Bendl talks again. But Mr Kalousek doesn't talk about five billion anymore because he can't defend it, because I don't have a crown as a biofuel manufacturer. And here's the proof. Let people see it. Here it is. [[Shows a picture of the A3 petrol station with circled prices.]] When you go to this pump - Mladá Boleslav, blackout direction Česká Lípa, on Saturday photographed - what is the difference between biodiesel and diesel? Four crowns a liter. That's the grant. Advantage of excise duty. That's the truth. And Kalousek is still lying here. Five billion doesn't exist. I don't get a dime out of it. Here's your bioethanol. How much is it? [[He's looking at a photograph.]] 23.90 and normal petrol 32.40. Difference of CZK 8.50 in favour of biofuels. And who made that up? The European Union! We have to follow the directives. And who will take responsibility for not fulfilling our commitments to the European Union and getting a penalty? Of course we'll get a penalty. So it's a demagogy, and I fundamentally reject it. It's not true that my company is dependent on biofuels. Thirty-eight percent of biofuels from abroad are imported here today. And my company can export. And my company invests in edible rape oil. Yes. And she made less biofuels. I fundamentally reject these lies. I don't know why you keep lying. Free media. Yes. We have Czech TV. That's where I'm going on a sequel to Reporters. No? There it is... What do you have against the media? I don't know. I can actually read you my media here - your interviews. [[He's reading from another piece of paper.]] Ms Nemcová Lidové noviny February 8, 2014. Mr Kalousek Lidové noviny interview May 17, 2014. Mr. Schwarzenberg 18. 10. 2014. You guys have more conversations than I do. [[In a strange tone. Laughs of Members YES.]] Young front: Karel Schwarzenberg 7. 3. 2015. Petr Fiala, Chairman of the ODS, 4. 4. 2015. Karel Schwarzenberg February 15, 2014 interview. Petr Fiala August 30, 2014. Miroslav Kalousek twice even, 13. 10. and 17. 10. 2014, Young Front Today. [[He's showing the paper he's been reading from.]] So what are you guys talking about? [[Again with a very strange tone.]] I can't even call my media. I don't even call. So where am I the threat to democracy? I don't understand what we're still talking about. Forgiveness of income tax. Please, Mr. Fiala, don't lie. Our government didn't forgive any of Agrofert's taxes. Never! And the subsidies you say are here. [[He's showing more paper.]] And when were they approved? 31 January 2013. You've got to be kidding me. In July 2013, you made fun of me. We had two percent. All subsidies were approved in 2013. Yes. So that's a lie. Another lie. Next, breakfast Mafra. Well, that's unbelievable. [[He's showing more paper.]] Mr. Kalousek is lying again because there was no Čepro at the breakfast I was at. Only ČEZ was there. And I had misinformation that it cost 200 grand. But the breakfast only cost 25 grand. So it was eight breakfasts. So I took the liberty of not knowing that ČEZ had put in 25 grand for that breakfast about the electrical record of sales. [[electronic]] And I thought it was $200,000, and during the interpellation, I promised I'd pay for it. And I paid 200 grand to the ČEZ Foundation. Your hard-working MP here, who imitates Mr Kalousek, has seen it here. I showed him the copy. And that Čepro, Mr Kalousek through the President, is what you mistake when you were Minister of Finance, so Chepro sponsored the Mafru about the future of Czech petrochemicals. You didn't mind then. Now it's a problem. Well, I love the wood. Now I've lost praise to God the tender. Nobody wrote it. [[Laughs of Members YES.]] Please, we were celebrating that we didn't win the tender. [[Fun in the whole hall.]] The tender - the only criterion was the price. There were 30 offers. Mr. Schwarzenberg, I beg you through the chairman, you know, when your boss was the finance minister, the white horse of his friend Háva Junek, the owner of the LSP Trhanov, got a contract for the chips. Outside the tender. Straight ahead! Because Mr. Kalousek called. That's how business was done! And you're talking about me being corrupt? You, the instrument, the symbol of corruption? This is unbelievable. So wood was a competition. Transparent. And the only criterion was the price. Don't talk about it, please. Don't talk about it because it's not true. And I don't want to be special here. I don't want to talk about privatizing Becherovka and so on about renting Orlík Mrázek. I don't want to say it here. I don't understand why you're attacking me. Don't you have another program? I really don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. The plot of the stork's nest. Well, that's funny, too. Like the plot of the stork's nest... I told Minister Took today to sell it back to me. I'll give him 50 kroner a meter more. Reporters forgot to say I put $800,000 on the firehouse in Olbramovice when there was flooding. And then I'm stupid and I thought, "Well, now I'm a politician, so I'm not gonna do Havránková, so I'm gonna sell it, 'cause the bypass is gonna move 100 yards to the farm. That'll ruin my property. They're gonna devalue the property! So it's bullshit, it's a lie. It's a lie! And vote here to sell the land, I don't know what the rules are, give the order to Took to sell it back to me. I'd like that. So I fundamentally reject all these lies because I have a conflict of interest. But I never abused him because I'm in position now. Why would I do that? Why? I got into politics by mistake. [[Fun in the hall.]] Yes, it is. First I was looking for someone, and then I did the movement. And people believed us. I'm doing my program. I'm not lying. I'm not stealing. And I work for people. I've never worked as much as I did today in my life. And I don't want to say what I've done here. I'll just give you the facts. Prime Minister, I think he stepped up and said clearly: we are a successful coalition government. Facts: Debt of the Czech Republic to 31. 12. 2014 for the first time since 1997 fell by CZK 19.8 billion thanks to me, that I started managing cash flow, that I touched on those reserves that lay on the accounts that I earned on it for the state 266 million. And now the debt has fallen by another 21 billion as of May 22, 2015. So, de facto, since taking up my post, he's been down by 40 billion. Deficit, our country's debt has fallen from 42.6 percent to 40.9. And the view is at 2018 40 percent. So today we're one of the least indebted countries. Even if we have a deficit, and we had to fix all your cuts, that's how it works. [[17.10 hours]] This morning we had a balance surplus of 3.5 billion, exactly a year ago it was 2.4 billion. So it's not true here what your colleague says about taxes. We chose 17.3 billion. taxes more if I compare today, virtually. 25 May 2015 - 2014. Yes, we've also increased spending, because unlike you, we're investing. We invest in the capacity of primary schools, kindergartens, social housing, transport infrastructure. We're investing! And an increase in costs, which is 17 billion. for the same period, that's 12 billion. investments. So if I go back to taxes and compare 2013 and 2014, we've raised 31 billion in that year. more. So I'd love for you to finally remember. For 2015 we plan about 20 billion. more and for 2016 46. So 2014, 2015, 2016 is 97 billion. Extra taxes! Don't say we don't collect taxes! I've taken over the Financial Administration in decay. Kalousek privatized her with the Knížek. They didn't do anything, no strategy, Prague was a tax haven. I don't abuse my functions. You guys voted for FAO control. Great, go ahead, you've already been there. Have you forgotten, ODS, how Cícer and Kalousek showed you the Mopro? Vondra - 500 million corrupt? He abused it. I'm not using it! No function. So that's the debt. And the deficit? Yes, the deficit was 112 billion. in 2014 the plan and we ended up at 77.8 billion. This year is a deficit of 100 and next year I plan 70 because I don't want to indebt the country. At the same time, we manage to free up consumption, return pensions, pay back, invest. And it's working. We have the fourth smallest unemployment in Europe. The Prime Minister already talked about it. We must catch up on drawing European funds. And what was Kalousek's colleague doing here anyway? He was in office from 9 January 2007 to 8 May 2009 and then from 13. 7. 2010 to 10. 7. 2013. There is an overview of our country's debt. And you know who comes first? Mr. Kalousek! He owed us 670 billion.! And it's counted on the day! He's preaching something here? 670 billion made debts when he was Minister of Finance during this period! And we forgot what else he was doing there, gambling - how did it work? He was supposed to be Guru Hušák, and when Hušák existed, taxes didn't pay. Remember Čunek, what he said about Mr. Kalousek introducing Internet betting. And by 2012, there were no returns. So gambling from 1990 to 2012, twenty-two years old, they didn't pay taxes. And I'm the first minister to come up with a law, too, about gambling regulation. So it's a gamble. Customs. There was also a management that has some Ecoll case of 4.5 billion. Gone. So, STC-Bulíček. That was Mr. Exministra's manager. He was handing out gold bricks to wait. Financial administration - 100 million - we had to file a criminal report on suspicion. Office for State representation in property matters. That's where the Mafia had the contracts. And, of course, Mr. Kalousek, he's been stealing for 20 years. He's got the tradition. And actually, with food, the flavor is growing, so the finale was supposed to be an environmental contract. That's where they wanted to steal tens of millions. And today, we're buying those environmental contracts for half of it. Then he had a genius right hand - some Radek Šnábl, criminally prosecuted for tax fraud. That was the right hand for arbitration. We lost such arbitration to a senior from Suffolk to TOZ. 1.4 billion left. God knows where. Lawyers, solarians -- that was classified, the government acted undercover to represent us. And so on. So you're talking about me being corrupt? This is unbelievable. So I'd really like you to stop lying, because I'm not stealing, I'm not lying, I don't need it, and for me, it's really absurd that the symbol of corruption, Mr. Kalousek, is still lying here. And I would love for you, Mrs. Langšádlová, to read this book when you talk about corruption. [[It shows a blue book of A5 format called Miroslav Kalousek, followed by the same publication by all members of the ANO movement.]] I'll at least read you the introduction, if you don't mind. Who's Ing. Miroslav Kalousek? Over the past 20 years, his high administrative and political activities have tried to answer many insiders and journalists. If one is able to be a director of the department of advisors of the Prime Minister, a member of the Board of Directors and executives of the West Bohemia breweries, a member of the Presidium of the Land Fund of the Czech Republic, an economic deputy to three consecutive ministers at one ministry, to become a Member of Parliament of the Czech Republic, to be chairman of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, to be a member or chairman of the Committee of Investigation and Finance, then we can say a lot about such a person, but it certainly cannot be said that he would be a fool who does not know what he is doing. Let's move 17 years back to the summer of 1997. Miroslav Kalousek is the fifth-year economic deputy of the Minister of Defence and has a friendly relationship with Richard Háva, a representative of a major arms company intermediate trades with military technology. We're at the premiere of the L-159. The tension and excitement of the curtain behind which the aircraft is hiding is great. Suddenly you hear the enthusiastic cry of Miroslav Kalousek: And it's in the pocket! After a telephone report that the government undertook to buy 72 of these aircraft for the military and provided banks with guarantees for lending a costly project. The Minister of Defence then says that exporting this weapon can raise money for dying education or health care. Richard Háva, the possible strategic partner of the aircraft manufacturer and the intermediary of this export, will receive another contract. The indicative price of this contract was around 22 billion years earlier. It's December 2008. The Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek, to the fullest surprise of the wide and professional legal public and its immediate surroundings, permits the signing of five companies to conduct online odds betting, although in the opinion of many lawyers, this kind of lottery does not have the support of the law. After all, the Minister himself admits this not long before, while the law remains unchanged at the time of the permit. In fact, until recently, he is also a strong opponent of this way of gambling when he claims that this kind of betting will only be allowed in the Republic over his dead body. On the volume of bets, gambling is an estimated 100 billion annually. Crowns. It's September 2009. A longtime friend of Kalouskův and a colleague who is a member and supporter without elections of legitimized new TOP 09 parties accepts a false offer from a journalist - a million crowns for the TOP 09 party for changing the lottery law. He says: "I have to tell Mirka Kalousek that you helped us to make him feel obliged to react somehow, didn't he? " When asked by a journalist about who is in charge of sponsors and gambling in the party, Top 09's secretary pointed out the very long-time friend Miroslav Kalousek, in whom the minister says he has complete confidence, and of course all his companies are hanging on him. It is a few months until the 2010 parliamentary elections. Vice-President of the new TOP 09 Party Kalousek has no assurance that his party will succeed in its premiere in the forthcoming elections and will thus reach the Chamber of Deputies. Kalousek has been in politics for almost 20 years. The Chamber of Deputies is to vote on whether to abandon the electronic project to blame cars instead of paper road signs. The cost of their introduction is estimated at 12 billion. CZK and the contract is to be obtained by Kapsch, which acquired a multibillion-dollar contract for the implementation and operation of electronic myth. Real experts sound alarms and warn: From an economic, transport and technical point of view, this is absolutely nonsense. And the Minister of Transport knows that too, when he later admits that, from a purely economic point of view, guilt is, of course, disadvantageous. A Member of the ODS and Vice-President of the Supervisory Committee warns Members that the approved form of electronic blame is the worst for the state, the least advantageous and that some technologies could be purchased twelve times cheaper. Everything seems clear, but it's not. Miroslav Kalousek stands out and declares that the arguments of his colleagues are purposeful and unfair and accuses him of the last trade of the outgoing Member. And he adds, "We don't give a shit about that." And he's voting against the motion for annulment to be blamed. [[17.20 hours]] As we have already stated, Miroslav Kalousek is no fool and certainly knows what he is doing. Until the election and maybe the end of his political career is about three months away. It's summer 2011. According to the Supreme Audit Office's findings, the Ministry of Finance forgave a large proportion of which is Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek, on sanctions for the unauthorized drawing of subsidies of CZK 31 billion out of CZK 34 billion. Journalists know specific cases where Kalouskův ministry forgave sanctions, even though the subsidies were subject to final penalties for credit fraud and bribery. Miroslav Kalousek responds with these words: One little monster named Kala decided to make it a media case about 14 days ago, as the criminal Kalousek forgave 31 billion. I consider what is doing extremely Bolshevik exmissary of ČSSD Kala to be an outrage. Probably his colleagues from the ČSSD advised him to bring it to the media and make it impossible for the government. Let us note that Miroslav Kala is the vice president of the SAO at the time. Miroslav Kalousek consistently rejects any accusations that he would have had any unacceptable financial or other benefits out of his salary during his official and political career. In 2001, for example, he says: I never stole a crown for myself or for the party, as I sometimes hear. And no one can ever prove me wrong. Can these claims be trusted? During the time when Miroslav Kalousek was deputy minister, there were repeated rumors that the treasury could profit from arms orders. Miroslav Kalousek has always strongly rejected such accusations. For example, in 1997, he said: It is nonsense, out of the question, we do no such thing. If anybody really thinks that, I have one reaction to that, and I'm judging the saying by myself. Three years later, though, when Miroslav Kalousek is no longer Deputy Minister of Defence, Jindřich Tomáš comments on the former Deputy Minister of Defence: In the present situation, everything is possible in this house. I have heard a lot about the fact that Deputy Director Tomáš has his business activities. I've always wondered if this person who's active in the business sector could stand up for this place. Much later, in connection with his Internet betting permission, he declares his opponents: I am deeply convinced that it was the opponents who harshly criticized us that were motivated by foreign companies. If Miroslav Kalousek is suggesting a saying in my opinion, then it follows that he denies himself and his own statement of 2001 with only the last two claims. Miroslav Kalousek has said many times that all the accusations of his person of wrongdoing are mere slander, and repeatedly asked his opponents for evidence for their claims. He pointed out many times that he had never been accused by law enforcement authorities - as we had the judicial mafia here then for a while - but that in no way means that he cannot be guilty of his ascribed acts. In addition to this connection, let us note that after World War II, Field Marshal W. W A Keitel General . Jodl, who sat through the entire war in Berlin offices and bunkers, like German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop with the same end, for example, was convicted in the Nuremberg trial. As a witness, the Soviet party invited General and Field Marshal Fridrich Paulus. But it was Paulus who planned an aggressive war in the east. It was his version of the attack that was accepted and later carried out. In addition to everything in Soviet territory, he fought personally. Paulus could be blamed for any crimes involving soldiers and officers of the Sixth Army. Paulus, however, was not tried in Nuremberg; on the contrary, he sat among the witnesses of the trial in shiny lacquers, in a suit and with a bow tie at his neck. He wasn't even judged after... So this is a book called Miroslav Kalousek, twenty years of his administrative and political games. And this man is accusing me of corruption. So for me, this is a really absurd debate, and I would really like you to stop lying to let our government work so that you can let us adopt the laws, because I think we are a successful government, and I strongly hope that the voters will see who is actually sitting here in this House. And if Mr. Kalousek is still sitting here, I'm sure it won't get any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u121	Thank you to Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. I have three factual points before the parties to the debate. First is Mr Ivan Adamec, then Mr Miroslav Kalousek and then Mr Petr Bendl. Then we would return to the debate according to written applications. My colleague Adamec, two minutes to comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I admit I'm here for the first time in the House, in the first term, and for the first time, I'm involved in a motion to distrust the government. I must therefore say that I am very sad about some of the contributions, some of them even a little bit narrow. Perhaps in response to Mr. First Vice-President, Minister Babiš, I would like to say that the taxes he says are successfully collected, that it looks a little different in these municipalities. There's still a tax deficit. I firmly believe that we will settle this in the coming months. So it's no wonder the criticism sounds here. And I have to say, the saying of the "let us work, the opposition" type, so I think that's just wrong. We live in a democratic system where the opposition has a solid place, and not in vain is said for coalition partners that the opposition is a good word and good advice for free. And I think we should be aware of that, and even sometimes, when we're having a little more fight here, I certainly don't think it should fall into some kind of personal plane. But I wanted something else. You know, I've heard it here a few times -- you've been stealing -- and it always shows up on us, on our side, and the ODS just steals, she wants a million euros. So I would like to ask, Mr First Vice-President of the Government, tell me who stole the million euros in ODS specifically, I would like to hear it because I feel very bad when it comes to me, who never had anything to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u123	I thank my colleague Adamc for his time. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor. I could easily disprove the words of the Ministry of Finance's policy, as well as those of Minister Babiš financed by the rumours and rumors he quoted here. But that would be distracting. That's not why we're meeting today. Today's meeting is due to the consumed and unprecedented conflict of interests of Minister Babiš. Of course, the gas station makes biodiesel four crowns cheaper. It's because there's public support for price intervention. If there's no price support, it'll be 8 crowns more expensive, and Minister Babiš won't sell a grand. That is why it is so crucial for him that the public support in the range of 9 billion continues. And he really believes that someone will believe that he doesn't have any of it, that stimulating demand isn't a stimulus to production. It is simply a pure lie, you are simply lying here through the President, Minister, just as you lied at the press conference when you said that the Ministry of Finance did not agree with Mr Rais's amendment. Of course it did. You voted contrary to your ministry's expert opinion in favour of your company. And there's nothing we can do about it, and the government is saying it, you just said it, and we want peace of mind. Well, you can't have peace of mind for a job like this, and you can't, because stealing isn't just allowed, but it isn't, and we just can't let you steal in peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u125	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr Petr Bendl now also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u126	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do know that this is not direct support for Agrofert, the 9 billion tax breaks. We know it's not money where the crown ends up on Agrofert's accounts. It's tax relief. Do you, Mr Vice-President of the Government, think that carriers would buy biodiesel if it were disadvantageous for them if there was no tax relief? Do you think your products would have gone to market if there was no tax relief? I would be very interested if you would at least publicly say how much billions of biodiesel you're selling, so that we know how much the taxpayer is actually going to contribute to you out of these nine billions. That's where it's hidden. We know that it is not directly, that it is not like the one billion you receive directly on subsidies in the agricultural sector, or that it is not the support of one and a half billion you receive on investment incentives. But if we're talking about a conflict of interest in biodiesel, it's about the promotion of biodiesel production, where you have 60 percent on the market in the Czech Republic. And there it is very easy to calculate if we knew how much biodiesel you were selling, so how much physically is the support of the Chamber of Deputies and the government in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u127	I thank Mr Bendl for his time. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u128	Thank you. I have two notes. First, when Minister Babiš says he doesn't affect journalists and he doesn't lie, I have to tell him he's lying because he can be found from 29. 6. 2013 transcription of an interview conducted by Mr. Babiš with journalist Jan Kálal, then journalist of Lidové noviny, when Andrej Babiš tells him: I looked into monitoring, I have an opener in Právo, a big article in Pubs, I found nothing in Lidovky. But then they talk about how he couldn't find anything in the lidovka, and the conversation ends: No, Babiš. No, I'm fine, I'm fine. I hope the boys just know what they're doing. They probably don't know who they're dealing with, but whatever. Good. Well, that's the first thing he doesn't affect journalists, he doesn't call anyone and he always tells the truth. Second thing. I want to ask you how it compares with the legal knowledge of the First Deputy Prime Minister that he said on the microphone that he was offered a million dollars for - or that he should have paid a million euros for the veto in biofuels. So I need to ask if he has reported this to the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u129	Thank you, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Now, Mrs Jana Fischerová, Mr Jiří Koubek will be prepared for a factual remark. Also with a point of fact, Mr. Secretary? Yes? Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u130	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear government, I was surprised today from the start that we finally met in full, I mean the government. I guess we haven't all been here long. Except for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who's in Africa, everyone was here at the beginning. That's how you appreciate it. 'Cause when we're at the interceptions, I miss this place, and we don't have a chance to ask. So I'm gonna ask Babiš, the Minister of Finance, because I listened to him when he was talking. He spoke slowly, he read slowly, and I took notes of it, and I want to ask you this. Agrofert investment incentives. In 2014, they were approved, and this was already under the current government, investment incentives of CZK 1.5 billion for Agrofert Group companies in the form of a tax discount. In other words, the company owned by the Minister of Finance was forgiven the income tax of CZK 1.5 billion. I can name it. Precheza, Preol, Olma, Vodňan poultry, those chickens, Penam, Lovochemie, Fatra. And that's not what I heard in the Minister of Finance's speech. So I'm asking him again where the truth is. And I confess that I am also asked by the people I meet, we are discussing, so I am asked about the vote last year and the end of the tax support for biofuels, because the Minister of Finance announced a total of seven times this year and last year a conflict of interest on the government. However, in doing so, this was not the case. So that was another question. If, Minister of Finance, the conditions which are created in the form of a legislative way, a legislative environment, or directly by obtaining these tax reliefs -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u131	Madame, please, your time has ended for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u132	I want to tell the truth. Thank you for the space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u133	Now, Mr Jiří Koubek, on the point of fact, then on the point of fact of the Minister of Finance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u134	Thank you, Mr President. When the finance minister here was talking about the event Mafra had and breakfast and CEZ, and how much money he paid, and he mentioned that he showed me the contract, he wasn't telling the truth. He was waving some paper in front of my eyes, so look, but he didn't show me any contract. But I asked him, during the interpellation, about another confrontation he kept quiet and refused to answer. How much money did the company Čepro pay Mafra for another event. The Minister of Finance refused to answer. I requested that information under the Free Access Act. There he is. My question was: What is the amount of financial participation of Čepro, a. s., at the conference held by the Mafra Group on 27 March 2015? Answer: For the purpose of the appropriate presentation at this conference, the company Mafra, a. s. paid CZK 121,000 with VAT on 17 April 2015. The event with ČEZ was by far not the only one. We know about others. Chepro action. Surely the Minister of Finance could tell us when this money will be returned to Čepro or any other non-profit foundation, if he will show us the contracts. And this is one of the other evidence that the Minister of Finance has made a literally milk cow for both the state budget and Mafra.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u135	That was Mr. Jiří Koubek. Now Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Prime Minister, you have time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. I would like to reply to Mrs Němcová through Mr President. It's a shame you don't remember. That was in Václav Moravec's questions. That's where the web fell and then the Czech TV forgot to broadcast it, because of course it was a scandal. I said the name. I was at the notary's, the police were investigating. It was from around your favorite, your guru, first, I'm not going to name it. I think we all know who's been the biggest pest since November. To the subsidies, please. One more time. I've read it here, my colleague. Yes. Precheza January 31, 2013. Synthesia 26. 2. 2013. And that's Europe's money. You deny me the right to go into politics at all, so you deny me, in fact, constitutional law, you deny me the right to do business with my companies that can't draw subsidies like any other. This is European money, this is not the Czech budget, in which I contribute 700 or 800 million crowns. These are European, and the rules are the same for everyone. And Čepro, please, colleague, ask Mr. Kalousek what happened. He was a pioneer of the Chepra events, he told them to put the money there. They're just continuing the tradition. And if you feel that CZK 130,000, that I would actually drop so low that I would try to do that, that's absurd. So our government would never approve of subsidies, nothing for Agrofert. I always report a conflict of interest and all these subsidies are from Europe and are from 2013. So please study this, because from the moment you apply for a grant, one or two years will pass. So that's how it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u137	I thank the Minister of Finance and the Vice-President of the Government for keeping time in a factual note. Mr Petr Fiala's point of order now. Then maybe we'll get back to the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u138	Yes. Minister, about what you said about the investment incentives, so we know who's telling the truth. I have here a table of official, public, CzechInvest, investment incentives. I've got Precheza, Preol, Olma, Vodňany poultry, Penam, Lovochemie, Fatra. I can also read you the amounts, the ceiling of public support in millions of crowns, it is also mentioned here, I will not delay this now, but I will grant it to you at your request. And what's interesting here? Application of the plan - 2014, decision - 2014. So please look who's not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u139	I thank Mr Petr Fial. And now we will return to the debate with the properly signed-up Members. Now, Mr Adolf Beznoska, Mr Marek Ženíšek will be ready. Mr. Beznoska isn't here, so he's dropping his application, so Mr. Marek Ženíšek. A colleague of Mr. Laudát will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'm sorry, Prime Minister, although you are not present, that your speech at the beginning of this meeting was much worse than I thought it would be. And that you obviously didn't understand why we're here today and what we're meeting about today. And to some extent, I also regret Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš for doing business in biofuels and not having a dime of it. I'm really sorry. However, the amount of five billion here has already been explained enough several times, and even if it were a million or half a million profits and not five billion, it is a scandal that simply has no equivalent. Today's extraordinary meeting was convened because of the conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš, who is absolutely, I would say, impossible in an advanced democracy, and your inaction, Prime Minister, is alarming and shocking in this matter. And to justify that in your speech, the success of the "disruption of a doctor's fee" is, I'd say, more than embarrassing. And dealing with my colleague Kalousek here suggests the absence of arguments... That point is called distrusting the government. Mr Kalousek is not a member of the government. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have 30,000 employees, and I think enough money, so pay somebody to tell you what that point is called before each meeting point. I believe that, at a time when the free and yet influential media were still in operation in the Czech Republic, the outcome of the negotiations on the promotion of biofuels, as we witnessed on Wednesday, would eventually lead to the collapse of the government. After all, even in our history, politicians were retreating and governments were falling because of far less wrongdoing. For example, I recall Prime Minister Gross's case ten years ago, who could not explain just one million crowns and then resigned. Various political gallbreads and various so-called. Godfathers needed decades and several governments to reach the sum of five billion using contacts on various frosts. In 2015, however, you only needed one day to vote for the support of five billion for your company Agrofert. This is therefore in total value, one might say about enrichment, which is five thousand times higher than the case faced by former Prime Minister Stanislav Gross in 2005, and then resigned. I understand that some of these seem smiling and tired of listening to it today, laughing at how part of the opposition points out last week's scandal, and you're kind of funny about it. I can imagine a reason for joy in the case of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš. When I compare the costs of one doughnut you were handing out in the campaign and the final balance, when every citizen will pay your company Agrofert CZK 500 after Wednesday's vote, this is certainly a cause for joy. I understand that. But it was you who often shouted that you were bringing about a new political culture. Instead, in a single day, you have accomplished what has not been achieved by various political squirrels in decades. And the government and its chairman and coalition partners don't care, and they even agree and help it. I would like to remind you of some of the more serious cases that have caused governments in Europe, in advanced Europe, politicians to stand down or withdraw or end. In Europe, politicians are resigning just because they may be copying, which cannot be compared to five billion for Agrofert. I remind you of the 2012 case when the president in Hungary had to resign because of the plagiarism affair. For example, the former German defense minister Guttenberg had to resign for copying. I remind you of the case of former Federal President Wulf who resigned after he faced the charge that in 2008 he, as Prime Minister of Dolnosa, had a film producer worth EUR 720 hosted at Munich's Oktoberfest. I remind you that there are countries such as the United States, and I am sorry that the Vice Prime Minister on his way to the US, which he himself paid, did not find out or that no one told him that people in the United States of America, if they are active in executive activity, are not yet allowed to do business or do business for some time, which is somehow related to the place or position they held in executive employment. In your government, however, it has become a standard for you to vote in favour of laws that will financially help the business of the first Vice-President of the Government even when he is in the government. And that's the problem that's caused this meeting tonight. This government, headed by Prime Minister Sobotka, is, in my opinion, going down in history for this very reason as the most corrupt government. There's no doubt about it. And I know that some of you will laugh about it and that you don't give a damn. You consider conflict of interest to be an absolute standard, and after the last vote on the promotion of biofuels, you have brought this corruption system to perfection. In short, you just vote to help Agrofert, whose owner is a vice-premier, and you don't mind at all. I would expect that at least after what happens, the Prime Minister will begin to address the situation, that at least he will make a gesture that he will declare: either the companies are selling or we are done. That's how the prime minister or coalition partners would behave, not just about their own chairs, but also about the political culture with which you are so often inclined. But you chose the chairs, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u141	Thank you, Mr Marek Ženíšek. Mr František Laudát now has the floor in his contribution, Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u142	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of my speech, I would assume that the government's confidence is that Prime Minister Sobotka will sit here. I'd ask you, Mr Vice-President, to invite him to come to the O.R. I wouldn't want to see you do this in two or three years where I think you're going to do it so the Prime Minister says he wasn't here and he didn't hear it. I don't say that and I don't overestimate the meaning of my performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u143	Mr. Ambassador, I can do this, and it's up to the Prime Minister if he's here, given that he has sufficient representation of government members right here in the hall. The Rules of Procedure do not allow me to enforce this at this time. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u144	Okay. I am allowed by the Rules of Procedure to give a procedural motion to interrupt negotiations until the arrival of Prime Minister Sobotka. I'd like you to vote on this immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u145	Okay. Of course I will, because that's your right, naturally. I'll have my colleagues in the lobby come back. I'll check you all out, please log in with your I.D. cards. And once the numbers are settled, I can still see that... There are more people in the room than there are on an electronic device, so there's still more... [[17.50 hours]] Mr Laudát's procedural proposal is that we interrupt negotiations until the Prime Minister arrives. The Prime Minister is here. I understand that he was probably in the State Act, but the procedural motion is, of course, unless Mr Laudát withdraws it and wants to return... So he's downloading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u146	Thank you. When the Prime Minister arrived...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u147	Ambassador, I'm gonna cut you off for a little while. I ask for peace of mind with the Chamber of Deputies. If you are having a discussion on a subject other than the question of trust to the government, please be in the foyer. Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u148	Thank you. After all, I would return to the matter after the one-hour gunfights, when someone here is reading the trash literature, so that he may then be exhausted to give further instructions that he'll privatize another one of the state. It has never happened since 1989 that most of the members of the government coalition present should vote in favour of one company. Firms whose owner is today the most powerful Czech politician, Vice-President of the Government and owner of the second strongest political party in the House. I believe that, at least ethically, you have violated the parliamentary pledge you made here after your election. Your behavior is certainly not in the interests of this country and its citizens. Such flagrant disregard for conflicts of interest is perhaps unique in all countries of the European Union. Lying and handling facts is also unprecedented after 1989. Just look at the case of biofuels. First everything's okay, then you bring something here, then there isn't, and then Mr. Babiš turns around and is in favour of canceling the support, which, of course, has been rudely declared through his printed paper into the world. To make matters worse, Mr Rais will copy Kalousek's amendment, submit it on his behalf - and the story ends with a mockery to citizens. YES, with the support of most ČSSD and KDU MEPs, they reject their own, understand the written, proposal and helpless Andrej respects the ANO club's decision, but he himself has a different opinion, which will also materialize with his vote. I'm sorry, I forgot to mention in the story the embarrassing role of the Minister of Agriculture is here, for KDU-ČSL, who was even more concerned about the result of the vote than Babiš himself. I know what I'm talking about. That was probably why so many people at their convention were wrong about his choice of first Vice-President on Saturday. The culture of truthfulness in the coalition is witnessed by the fact that the chairman of the ANO club threw everything at coalition partners who forced YES to vote against the amendment in quotation marks, and the folk bulls forced him to backstage apologize. Gustáv Husák would be blushing. When he lied, he had Soviet tanks on his ass. I don't know who's on your ass. In every civilized country, the case of biofuels would lead to the fall of government and the zero chance of a white horse defending a high party post. So I don't know why not give you the opportunity again to admit color. This doesn't change the fact that nothing will stop us in this strange redooligarchic mixture and you will vote in favour of holding the government, strengthened by the support of the KSČM. Better proof of the parameters of real government gets the coalition part of a lie, because they take that, are and will be right, nor could they order. [[unintelligible]] Distrust of the government is an opportunity to look back on the coalition's previous action in combating corruption. You promised people the end of corruption, instead of introducing system corruption. This is much more devastating for democracy than random thieves. The courage of Babišův's coalition partners ends in strong speech at their own conventions. On the one hand, you lie to your fellow partymen and the public, but you accuse yourself of cynicism...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u149	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask other colleagues who have created the colloquials to form them in the foyer and have Mr Laudát deliver his speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u150	Thank you. The courage of Babišův's coalition partners ends in strong speech at their own conventions. On the one hand, you deceive your fellow party and the public, but you accuse yourself of cynicism when you prove that you are aware of the problem. But that concludes your ability to act. You preach morality when you criticize the previous governments, and Mr. Babiš showed it here in an excellent way, but first after 1989, you gave your pardon to the general aesthetics in the government. So you want people to be morale, whose absence you're suffering from. You have a minister assigned in the House to a minister without a job. I have to stand up for him, for one thing. His rebel agency is proof that he's doing something, at least trouble. If he wanted to do something really positive, come up with a high-quality conflict of interest law. Even recently, almost no one could imagine that something like an oligarch in government could happen in Central Europe in the middle of the second decade of the twenty-first century. Responsible politicians should respond immediately to the new reality. If Prime Minister Sobotka, President of Social Democracy, and Mr Bělobrádek, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL, you think that this case is over today, you are deeply mistaken. On the contrary, draining taxpayers' money will accelerate. I mean, look back at your work so far. Green oil, success in the Forests of the Czech Republic, land purchases for infrastructure, suddenly a rapid increase in subsidies and investment incentives. The network economy is the largest business in the global economy by its stable and wide scope. Babiš or his strategic advisors are fully aware of this, perhaps unlike you, Mr President and Vice-President. Either Babiš came to the effect of the network economy with his own intelligence, or he may have read, for example, Kiyosaki's book Nefair Advantage or Business for the twenty-first century. To the bad luck of Czech democracy and political culture, the state significantly intensifies or even controls some of the network disciplines. To the misfortune of the Minister of Health, Germany and the Health Department, several types of network economy can be found, and Mr Babiš will not rest until he places his people there. Didn't you ever wonder why you cared about the Czech Post, Secretary of the Interior Chovanč? At the Department of Agriculture may not even interfere too much, there is an actively open door. And traffic isn't so good, so maybe he'll give the resort a break for a while, but here's, for example, a nice network business on the railroad. Maybe his people have already instructed him. Perhaps KDU could help with personnel changes through expert Tesařík, as I watched their convention. Prime Minister, it is your personal political responsibility to address this conflict of interest urgently. Mr Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, be careful that your party does not fail at the crossroads of Czech democracy for the second time. [[18.00 hours]] Sixteen months now, the government coalition is fulfilling three pé policy. It's not PPP projects - it's politics, money, fraud. You will hold the government by voting on trust. But when the real results of your reign start to work, don't say you didn't want this and didn't know it. A few more responses to what has been said here during the day. More like a reaction to the beginning, which I still thought was cultivated, unlike what people who came here to work in politics did. Prime Minister Sobotka: "We have always carefully considered inciting distrust from the government. " To remind you, there was a time when practically a month and a month were repeated attempts to express distrust to the government, I counted the votes from about the third attempt, if I recall correctly, and I think they succeeded in the seventh attempt. To their own appallment a month and something before the end of the Czech Presidency, which has not, and has not yet, been equivalent throughout the European Union. So careful consideration of that -- to this day, when you ask diplomats from all over the world, they remember the case, they're shaking their heads. Few have damaged the reputation of the Czech Republic abroad as well as this successful attempt - with the contribution of the ODS defectors, while we are with those defectors who have done what they have done. Prime Minister Sobotka: "We are minimizing the loss of EU funds." For the previous or under the Government of Topolánkův, Minister Kuchtová was dismissed because after a year she did not have a certified education program as the last of the entire government. Today I'm in 2015 in the middle of the semester, and in the period 2013 to 2020, some half of all programs are certified because there are eight of them, and then there are still regional ones, I don't know what the situation with them is. Construction of transport infrastructure. So you succeeded on January 1st of this year - I counted communist statistics since 1970, that you had the seventh worst result in all history, including communists. So I don't know, you probably want to lie to people, and then you might say there's highways somewhere, but there'll still be fields. I can imagine. Mr Chvojka - for his speech: "We had, however, 56 Members." Well, if I were here alone, I'd warn you of the risks to what policy, what future of the Czech countries you are ordaining. If more people had done it in Germany in the 1930s, it wouldn't have to be what happened. If more people were to fight here in '45, it wouldn't have to happen on February 1948. There aren't enough of us here, people haven't trusted us, but you haven't told them how you're gonna start running around here either. And unfortunately, today, they have very limited access to information, and serious information, because someone is already buying up the media, it's just freaking out. Vítězslav Jandák, Slávek Jandák here spoke: "You speak envy." I don't know if anybody's jealous. As you know, property isn't just luck. Hamtat, hamtat, hamtat, and this empire isn't enough for me. And maybe you know the biblical story of how two gentlemen should have circled the land from dawn to sunset, which they would then go around and come back, so they would be theirs. One bypassed them appropriately, so he survived, and then he could enjoy working on this new property. The second hamthal, the other field, the other boundary, the other one, and the other one, and he got himself killed, so then he just took 2 x 2 square meters. Even though the oligarchs here are going to be hamtat gigantic property, they're going to end up with just one can called an urn, or 2 x 2 square meters in a cemetery. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u151	Thank you, that was Mr. František Laudát. Mr Radim Fiala will now appear, Mrs Miroslava Němcová will prepare. Sorry. A real comment from my colleague Chalupa, I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. My colleague, Fiala, will forgive me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u152	Good afternoon, Prime Minister, members of the government. Thank you for the floor. Very briefly. This government has my support because my children, who are 14 and 8 years old today, were born at a time when there was stealing, when there was clientelism, when corruption - today it manifests itself in sport, it manifests itself in the health sector, it manifests itself everywhere that has been implemented here for 15 or 20 years. It was considered normal to steal, it was considered normal to be clientelism, work could only be obtained when you had a friend somewhere, you got contracts when you had a friend. This ends tonight. This is what we are talking about today, and that is why this government has my confidence because it is being talked about and it is trying to address it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u153	I thank Mr Chalupa for his time. Mr Radim Fiala now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u154	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to contribute a brief discussion to today's extraordinary meeting on government distrust. I've been here in the House for some time. During this time I have seen some facts that unfortunately discredit Czech politics and politics at all in front of citizens. I guess I don't have to explain for too long what the facts are. Above all, we are turning here into merely an executor of foreign policy. Our state sovereignty is disappearing. We're being absorbed by the Brussels superstate. The Czech Republic is turning into an administrative unit and its statehood is disappearing. At the same time, political differences have been wiped out in Czech politics. Both the left and the right have the same political speech. They differ in electoral promises, but they do not differ in the practice of governance. Raising taxes, indebting, giving up sovereignty, abandoning national interests and arrogance. This is the characteristic of the ruling practice of Czech politics from left to right. Employees, businessmen, smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs feel like you're making fun of them. Bad fun for their taxes, for their money. People no longer believe that politics is about a program, about serving people, and not just the functions, the trough and the robbery of their taxes. It's getting harder to play political theatre in front of citizens. And today, one of the performances for the rest of the naive voters is taking place. The problem of promoting biofuels could be addressed by ODS and TOP 09 at a time when colleagues from these parties were government ministers. The situation is different today. It is necessary to show that we are doing opposition policy. In addition to experienced political actors from ODS and TOP 09, cheap amateurs, capable of anything, came to the stage today. I will not support the theatre of the so-called opposition, and I cannot support a government that does little to solve the problems I mentioned. I will express my political position by leaving the vote. I believe that by leaving you, the voters will respond as well. Our country no longer has time for similar political theatres. We need change, and neither the government nor the so-called opposition brings it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u155	I thank Mr Radim Fial, Mrs Miroslava Němcová will now have the floor, Mr Bohumil Svoboda will prepare. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u156	Thank you for the floor. Once again I wish you good day, fellow Members, allow a few - I don't know if it's quite brief, but I will try to do so - words about why we are gathered today, namely to express distrust to the government. What, then, leads me personally to this step, and how am I motivated? First of all, I can start with nothing else, although I'm going to deal with other circumstances than the case that actually blew up here last week at the time we passed the Biofuel Act or we did it to biofuels. I have to say that all of this had its foreplay, this law, and I would have gone back five years. Five years ago, and it was May 2010, the Chamber of Deputies became such a special collaborator. The lobbyists then, just before the elections, developed maximum pressure to push for an increase in the share of the biofuels and it was the day before the parliamentary elections, extraordinary or proper, but before that, the government of Topolánkův fell in 2009 and since 2009 the government of Jan Fischer ruled here. At the time of this government, the government of Jan Fischer, there was three readings of a law called air protection. The first reading took place on 4 December 2009, the second 10 March 2010, the third 17 March 2010. Then the law was vetoed by the President of the Republic and finally we voted on this veto of the President of the Republic the day before the parliamentary elections. What happened? The Chamber of Deputies during - if you were interested and read the tapes, you will find that there were already serious reservations as to whether the adoption of such strengthening of a bio-component in biofuels, whether there was room for a monopoly for an unnamed firm at the time, and it was dealt with very seriously by the House. And since it seemed that this law would not be passed because of the President's veto, then the chairman of the Bohuslav Sobotka parliamentary club suggested that we meet just a day before the elections and this law could take place. I have a quote here about how it was actually going, and the President of the Agrarian Chamber Jan Veleba describes this whole situation as follows: "It was standard procedure. I have sent letters to the heads of our regional chambers to contact Members in their regions. I have also addressed some myself, such as the Vice-President of ČSSD Bohuslav Sobotka. And this time, there was a lot of interaction with Agrofert. I've been communicating with Babiš, and I know he's been doing a very special job of doing everything." At that time, Andrej Babiš himself publicly admitted: "Yes, I lobbied for biofuels. I called some Members, for example. I'm not afraid to say my views out loud." Then why am I mentioning this? Why do these five-year-old events belong here? After all, it was already obvious who was most interested in promoting biofuels. Especially because the owner of Agrofert built a brand new factory for Preol biodiesel at 1.6 billion. Crowns. That is why he lobbied for biofuels, which is why he called the Members and publicly confessed to it. Perhaps there is also evidence of this from the period press, where we learn about it - news is running in 2009: After years of futile efforts to get the mouth of Setuz, the largest biodiesel factory in the Czech Republic, the owner of Agrofert and the second richest entrepreneur Andrej Babiš try otherwise. He wants to destroy it in a competitive fight. The new factory of Agrofert on biodiesel was opened by politicians headed by the head of ČSSD Jiří Paroubek. Paroubek appeared in the media as a new supporter and promoter of Andrej Babiš next to his right pre-election hand in the region, head of Ústí ČSSD Petr Benda. This is not the first time that Babišův's business has enjoyed the political support of the socialists. Here the article says that perhaps Minister Jaroslav Palas, Minister of Agriculture for the ČSSD, did not wish Babišův's sector, but this is not the subject of our debate. Interesting in this period press is another expression by Andrej Babiš, who says how it was with the dispute around Setuza and around his business. He says: "I remember the meeting with Mrázek and Pitr, don't make me say anything more about it. " This is something that we need to know to illustrate who had an enormous interest in enforcing this law at the time. I will add that 68 of the 70 members of the ČSSD voted on the President's veto in favour of biofuels the day before the House elections. Eighteen out of 77 ODS members. Of those 18, no one is in the Chamber of Deputies anymore. From KDU-ČSL it was eight out of nine. Green three out of four, and then there's some non-inclusion. So much for the one who actually advocated or did not advocate for extradition in this way. I have another point to make. This concerns that when we listened well to the Prime Minister's opening words, he said that he was aware that he was carrying the ČSSD and perhaps he was personally carrying it, I am not sure if he said it, but I believe that this is the case, he is responsible for whether the Czech Republic will continue to be a democratic country with a parliamentary system. But here I have quoted the ČSSD convention declaration, which is defined against the oligarchs. He fears that we will soon only have a parody on democracy, but he is not really doing anything serious against it. Words are spoken, speech is flowing, deed has escaped. But unfortunately I have to say the same thing about KDU-ČSL, who accepted such a special political figure. I mean, the voters chose that way, there's nothing we can do about it. But if they were to notice the latest questions that took place in society, most Czech companies do not like and disagree with the conflict of interests of a member of the government. I mean, they should be doing something in this instinct. If there's anything else I blame the government for, it's another topic I want to mention that concerns foreign policy. It was already at the beginning of 2014 and this year the ODS pushed through my mouth two important resolutions in the Chamber of Deputies on two extraordinary foreign circumstances, which become the dominant of politics not only of the Czech, European, but of the world. The two dominants are called the conflict in Ukraine caused by Russia and the second situation surrounding refugees from war-torn territories. That disunity foreign policy is affecting us equally. If we are talking about an internal problem, which is certainly a conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš, a conflict of interest, the breakdown of the democratic system, the building of an oligarchic system, the government's failure to reconcile it with the President of the Republic appears in foreign policy. I was talking about it in my factual remark about two minutes ago, when I understand the conflict that is inside the ČSSD. That is a conflict I would call "the dispute about Miloš Zeman." Some people like him, some people don't like him. And since Miloš Zeman is building his own independent foreign policy on the government, the ČSSD, the government, and thus the Czech Republic are in a very unpleasant situation, namely that foreign partners do not understand us in any way. If I had to name some examples, I'd be happy to name them. Maybe first. The President is repeatedly questioning anti-Russian sanctions as ineffective and is pronounced for their termination this year. However, the Prime Minister opposes the fact that sanctions are linked to the fulfilment of the Minsk agreements, which cannot be expected this year. Or a second example. At a time of enhanced relations with the West, the President calls for Russia to be admitted to the European Union. At this, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka opposes the fact that Russia's accession to the European Union is not on the agenda, Russia does not seek it and prefers to build ties in the Eurasian Union. Thirdly, the President calls on Russia to participate in the Eastern Partnership project, against which it is clearly defined. I would like to ask him if the Prime Minister were here, so I would like to ask him if Russia's membership of the Eastern Partnership is also a strategic objective of the Czech Government. The path of the President of the Republic to Moscow to celebrate World War II, where he traveled as the only President of the European Union, has become lonely and sad in all respects. Unfortunately, he did not repeat the example of Angela Merkelová, who stated in Moscow that the cooperation between Russia had suffered from the criminal and unlawful annexation of Crimea. The Czech government took responsibility for this trip, gave the president a blank check. [[18.20 hours]] My second question to the Prime Minister, if he were here, would be whether the government gave the President of the Republic consent to this path and to the composition of the delegation. Just to accompany him to Moscow to Vladimir Putin Martin Nejedlý from Lukoil and then meet the President of the Czech Republic with Vladimir Jakunin, who is on the American penalty list. I would be very interested to know if the government has any reservations about how the Czech Republic presented itself on this trip. We can only write some more or less dedicated comments about the substantive question, because no one knows what happened behind closed doors. Nota bene also asks whether the delegation has been composed in such a way that no one can carry out what the gentlemen have arranged. I could quote a number of other examples from this disagreement between the president and the government, but I don't think it's pushing us any further now. The crucial thing is that the government is not capable - I would perhaps not blame it so much, because with the President of the Republic, as we follow his daily provocations and daily appearances, it is probably impossible to reconcile a single foreign policy, but it is the government's task. She promised us, through the Prime Minister's mouth, that she would arrange regular meetings at the Castle, that she would coordinate foreign policy, that the lapps that could damage us both in NATO or in the EU could not happen, but we see these laps every day. Perhaps part of the media or part of the public has decided, on the basis of daily presidential provocations, whether they are directed by Mr Ovčáček or by the President himself, to no longer comment. I think we've all already said that the border has been crossed after we've learned about the altitude our president has at altitude and what kind of Foreign Minister Kerry has, so I guess everyone's thinking that this debate has no sense now. But the government is still obliged to perform its basic role and is obliged to act in foreign policy so that the interests of the Czech Republic are not compromised, which is not happening in the event of coordination with Miloš Zeman, and our interests are threatened. The third thing I want to mention maybe I follow up on what Prime Minister Andrej Babiš said here in his first speech, not in factual remarks afterwards. He talked about being grateful to the country that let him work here and allowed him to climb the economic ladder up to this height. After the conflict of interest of Andrej Babiš, after foreign policy, if I blame the government for anything thirdly, so deafness to what it showed when Andrej Babiš had to read in a magazine there dealing with foreign policy, and this magazine discussed the gigantic conflict of interest of Andrej Babiš and his controversial past, so this is how Andrej Babiš responded. Now let me quote him. There's gonna be a word I didn't make up, but I have to say it here. "Last week, they totally puked on me. That's a setup. Who did this? Well, Czechs. Who else would do so," says Andrej Babiš, who loves this country so much and is so grateful for allowing it to grow economically and even politically to reach the level that we see today! I don't know what country it would be possible for its first vice-chairman, even if he wasn't born in that country, to say any of these words to the citizens of that country without the Prime Minister answering. I think that if Andrej Babiš feels this way about Czech citizens, there is no need for him to suffer for us. He can go to his homeland, but the problem is that he wouldn't be admitted to the government, at least that's how the Slovák talk about laughing at us, how we could have let such a thing happen. This is another thing that I accuse the government of allowing such dehonestation of Czech citizens. The fourth thing I accuse the government of is that it does not prevent attacks on the media, i.e. those who are to be a part of normal democratic traffic in a normal democratic country. The attack was led by Minister Babiš against the weekly Echo. Immediately after his inception, he announced that he would send financial control to them, because just in the journal and the weekly newspaper he did not want, almost all the decent journalists from his then media division Agrofert, i.e. from Lidové noviny and Mladá fronta, left there. That's what the finance minister wanted to shine on, send financial control to them. The second attack is coming against Czech TV, we have heard it here today, when it does not like how public television reports on how money and for what purposes the finance minister companies draw from the state budget. The third attack comes on Barrandov only because this television allowed itself to point out that the Minister's partner can't say the things she's bringing from abroad. The fourth attack on the Free Forum, where he attacks the editor-in-chief Pavel Šafr. In the end, he decides to sue Andrej Babiš. So these are things that I have not noticed even once, that the government, the Prime Minister, any ČSSD representative, any of the KDU-ČSL representatives would have defined against them. The very acceptance of such attacks against normal democratic media - now I do not include the Lidové noviny and the Mladá fronta, on which the appropriate term is probably valid, which is not my original, it was said at our MP's club that this media turned from watching the dogs of democracy into the watchdogs of Agrofert. But the government has to do something about it. These are the reasons that, if I sum up and repeat them, I believe they are sufficient for us today as opposition parties to convene this meeting to say our views on what the government is failing in, and whether it is in the internal matter, the conflict of interest, the collapse of the democratic system in the country or in foreign policy, or the threat of democratic media and the attack on our citizens. In all this, I see sufficient reason for this government not to continue its work. That's all I wanted to say. I tried to draw only from the facts, and I wanted to disprove some of the dominant theories of Minister Babiš, who still claims like he did nothing, he musician, how he came up with everything just because everyone around him was stealing. He didn't tell us a single word about his interests in 2009, in 2010, about his lobbying and phone calls. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u157	Mrs Miroslava Němcová. I now have two factual points: Mr Martin Novotný and then President of TOP 02 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u158	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I get the floor a little later, so I apologize for returning to my colleague Chalupa's performance on a factual note. He mentioned that the main purpose of his view of politics was to put an end to the system of clientelism in this country. The system of clientelism is undoubtedly a danger at all times. I must tell my colleague Chalupa, through Mr President, such personal testimony from past years. As a municipal politician, I have met a number of top politicians and high-ranking politicians in my work, and among them, of course, the good ones and those who were very fond of bragging about their relations with various very wealthy people and various very rich entrepreneurs. It was across the sides, regardless of whether it was on the right or on the left. Do you know what one of the most common names at the time you call the time of clientelism was mentioned as the contact they were bragging about as the person they liked to meet and arrange things with? It was always the name of Andrej Babiš. It was the name quoted by the family, without a last name, by the name of Andrej. [[18.30 hours]] Mr. Babiš says very often that he has decided to join politics to fight the Matrix that he believes was in this country. If there was a Matrix in this country, then Mr. Andrej Babiš has always been an integral part of it. Today, we're only arguing about whether he should be part of it or his head.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u159	Thank you for keeping the time limit. And now, please, to Mr Kalousek's microphone on a factual note, then Mr Chalupa will also be prepared for a factual one. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u160	Thank you for the floor. Sorry for the delayed reaction. I did not want to delay the lady, which is why I only applied for a jump later on in the speech of Mr Radim Fiala. This morning on live air Good morning with the Czech Television insisted on my position, which I said sometime three quarters of a year ago, that Members of the Dawn are populists. I would like to apologize for these words based on the discussion that is taking place here. Of course, we still have a number of incompatible exits with Dawn. But populism, pure populism, úsvit left with the departure of Lords Okamura and Fiala. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u161	Thank you and I am now asking for a factual remark from Mr Chalupa. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u162	Thank you for the floor. I do not want to enter into discussions here, we have committees and subcommittees of this House, where we actually work. There we have the task of doing things like defending this country, protecting fellow citizens and other things. To Mr. Speaker, who was talking about how I understand politics. Please leave me to understand politics. I was talking about two aspects - corruption and clientelism. I remember that time, the reverends are still here. Again, we see it in sport. And I don't want my kids growing up in an environment that's been set up here for a long time. That's why I trust this government, because I believe that this government and those people who have been elected... Because you have the opportunity in two years to express your distrust of this government by being elected a nation! You haven't won it yet. So far, we've won it. So I believe in this government that there will be changes in this direction that will lead to these things ending in this country, and this country will start to function normally! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u163	Thank you and please refer to Mr Laudát's microphone with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u164	Thank you for the floor. I'll just respond to my colleague Chalupa. Indeed, right-wing governments were very weak in this, because if they went brutally and consistently into destroying clientelism, you might have had another chairman today or you wouldn't even exist. When one of the novels was around biofuels, it was called Babišův's novel here in the galleys. I don't know about any other lobbyist. And try asking the Prime Minister where the baskets used to go to the parliamentary officials were from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u165	Thank you. And now, please, with the proper application from Mr Svoboda and Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to talk about what's bothering me right now. So many things have been said here about what conflict of interest we have here, what clientelism, what corruption is going on here in a new form. And I've been thinking all this time that it's a thing that's going on, and that we have to make sure that things like this end. I expected Minister Babiš to take some reflection of his actions and his votes, that in some form he would introduce us to why it was not a conflict of interest, why it was not enrichment. There was no such thing. And it follows that he is actually satisfied with the activity and that it will continue. I'm afraid he's right. Allow me to quote a few sentences presented by Adam Vojtěch, Mr Babiš, an analyst, and it is said that the future Minister of Health, who now creates a health concept and also creates a special soil. This is very interesting for me and I would very much like to have your attention on what I'm about to say: Under the Ministry of Health there are directly controlled hospitals. That's a problem from my point of view. I see a conflict of interest in it. When the Minister of Health sets up certain hospitals and at the same time determines the remuneration for the whole segment. Either the Minister of Health has a faculty hospital under him, or he can set up a payment. - Very interesting view of conflict of interest. And how to remove it, says Adam Vojtěch in the following sentences: One of the options I can imagine personally is that the Ministry of Finance would write a payment decree. It would help in certain ways. The Minister of Finance could be more deflected from the health lobby than the Minister of Finance. [[Health care?]] That's a very interesting sentence. We must realise that our Finance Minister has decided to enter the health care system financially. The health care system represents a volume of 250 billion, which is actually relatively free when it enters. And Minister Babiš started buying medical facilities. Currently he specializes in centres of reproductive medicine, which are specifically financed in the payment decree, and it would certainly be interesting if the Ministry of Finance could set a price for these medical devices. It's an example of the ongoing conflict of interest. Just because it's very simple. It is very easy to change the law of competence and to put health evaluation questions from the hands of the Ministry of Health into the hands of the Ministry of Finance. There's only one problem. If the Minister of Finance is to be a major and significant owner of a large part of a health facility, or even one segment of a health facility, then such a change, it will finally be a conflict of interest in setting the price of the performance tariff. This is a very serious problem which says that the conflict of interest and such silent draining of money, state money, into the pockets of a private man will continue. There's one more problem. The analysis made by Mr Adam Vojtěch sets out the idea of future funding for health care, which will be determined by market laws. This means that the price will be negotiated directly between the healthcare facility and the insurance company and the market law will determine what is most advantageous. At this point, I would like to remind the Minister to instruct his advisor that there are three areas in which the market law does not apply, and one of them is health. It doesn't really work there. Just when you buy rolls or bread under market law, you know what you want, and you know what it is. When you buy health care, you don't know what you have to buy, what you need and how much it costs. Market law, price decision, Ministry of Finance - it's all perfect, it's concentrated in one hand. We're finally gonna have a source of conflict of interest back here. We're gonna be able to meet here again one day and solve the problem whether it's right or wrong. [[18.40 hours]] It's got a number of other hooks. Health care is a system that stands on such a tripod. There are three legs that make up functioning health care: financial efficiency, quality and accessibility. If the Minister of Finance and his expert today are just talking about how health care will only manage financial efficiency, they don't know what they're talking about. There's no tripod standing on one leg. But the influx of money from this tripod through the Ministry of Finance and another source of what I went up against because I didn't want anybody making any money on state funds in any way, and I don't care if they're being paid secretly, whether they're being taken away in a bag for bottles of wine, or whether they're being officially given by some law that's against the principles of conflict of interest, I don't care. It's like you keep saying it to me: same theft, same corruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u167	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Zahradník's microphone. Mr Koubek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Andrej Babiš finally got off here, even think twice or three times, and tried to convince us here that the billions mentioned here are flowing, in a way, mainly from his company Agrofert to the treasury of the state. I think it is very inappropriate, because paying taxes and paying social and health insurance is the duty of every employee and paying social and health insurance is the duty of every decent entrepreneur. To be honest, I am convinced that this is rather the contrary, namely that the billions flow from state to Agrofert, as our President Petr Fiala, in my opinion, has shown very convincingly. However, I would like to mention three other very important aspects that I think affect the whole thing. It doesn't have to be just financial, economic profits for Agrofert. It may not be just billions of tax breaks or subsidies from state, national or European funds. They may also be some kind of non-financial performance, some kind of non-financial profit. I would like to mention three things that relate to the Department of Environmental Protection, which I specialize in. First thing, Sumava. There was a Senate proposal on Sumava, which had great support from the Šumava communities, the Šumava inhabitants, both regions, I think, to some extent initially also by politicians here in the House. Many members of the ANO movement came and told them how they felt about the fate of Sumava, to remain green, to cheer for the Šumava Šumavák, to earn the greenness of Sumava. Then, finally, there was a vote, and all as one man voted in favour of rejecting the Senate bill, as Minister Brabec recommended, who is therefore acting under the authority of his boss, Mr Babiš. Another phenomenon I want to mention is the question of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. There's been a long, difficult debate here, too. Here too, a number of things have been resolved more or less favorably for our republic. But one thing remains unsolved. And one thing is still a major threat to our competitiveness, and that is the great influence of environmental activists on the ongoing management of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. At first, when we dealt with this law in the Committee on European Affairs last April, this standard, it was the members of the ANO movement who, along with me, prepared a committee resolution that significantly warned the Czech government about the adoption of the law, which could significantly affect our competitiveness. Likewise, in the same spirit, a seminar was held in the House. In the end, the law was adopted in the form that we approved it, which gives environmental activists a significant place in the process of proceeding under the EIA Act. And the fact that construction companies, and even some politicians, are complaining about it and are worried about how this law will affect building enforcement in our country is a thing that, of course, we can already consider crying over spilled milk. And the third thing, the third phenomenon, is, as I would call it, the contempt of government by the normal, common sense of our citizens. This is where I mean the so-called cutting decree, among other things. Today it is not possible to defeat a tree of certain parameters in a private garden, on private property without a citizen asking permission from the municipal authority. Something similar is planned again by the Minister in the preparation of a law enabling the control of heating sites in private houses. Once again, the government despises the freedom and common sense of its citizens significantly. What is the common denominator of all these three aspects? In addition to hurting our Republic, and putting our citizens in an inconvenient, non-free position, it is that they have always been strongly supported and promoted by environmental activists. Their pen can also be seen in the draft amendment to Act No. 114 on the conservation of nature, which significantly removes the authority of municipalities to intervene in the events in the national park, into events that so affect their possibilities of development. Instead of agreeing on protective conditions for their consideration. Two words - and what a significant difference. What does that mean? What lesson does that teach us? In my view, there is a significant suspicion that there has been some kind of non-financial performance, that Mr Babiš, as owner of Agrofert, is taking peace of mind from environmental activists for all his chemical, agrochemical, agricultural and who knows what other businesses in favour of Šumava, that he has given them a great blackmail law in the process of assessing the impact of buildings, and finally thirdly, that he has answered their call for strict standards binding the freedom of a citizen. Here the representatives of the ANO movement curse themselves by wanting to run the state as a private company. That's nice, of course. Mr Kalousek mentioned here how it would be possible to fire old and hire new employees. I think it might be something else. The Commercial Code or the Commercial Corporation Act requires the managers of each company to act in such a way as to bring maximum profit to the owners of their company. And I think it's also the purpose of running the idea of running the state as a company - bringing maximum profits to Agrofert. That is why I will also vote in favour of the motion of distrust to the government of Prime Minister Sobotka and Mr Andrej Babiš. Neither of these gentlemen are here, which I will regret. [[in the hall]] What bothers me and what I have to say is that I am very sorry that the rapporteur of this proposal is not sitting here either, Mr Hájek, who I think should briefly convey the content of my speech to both gentlemen. But I will not propose any interruptions, I finally gave my speech to you, ladies and gentlemen, and I ask that you also vote with me and express your distrust of the government of Babiš and Sobotka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u169	Thank you and please to Mr Koubek's microphone, Mr Volný will be ready. I'm sorry, I did not see the facts - Mr Kalousek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u170	I apologise to you, Madam President, and to Mr Koubek, but I would like to say something that I do not consider marginal. About two hours ago, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister here informed us that in 2012 there was a serious attempt at either bribery or extortion when one million euros of bribery were enforced. This has not been said nicely by any Franta Vomáčka in the fourth price group, so said the first Vice-President of the Government of the Czech Republic on a microphone in the Chamber of Deputies, when he announced that there was actually a serious crime. I don't understand why he only said that in the Chamber of Deputies, why he didn't notify the law enforcement authorities first. I strongly hope that the vigilant ear of the D.A. has recorded it, so it is now. But if it does not, I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that, after consulting lawyers, I am filing criminal charges against an unsub for an apparent crime - either bribery or extortion by the end of this week. It just has to be investigated, it can't stay in the air. Either it turns out that the Vice-President of the Government lied as he often does, or that he didn't lie and that the crime really happened, and then it has to be made clear who committed it. We can't leave this matter unchecked, and I'm asking the Chamber of Deputies to assist me in this effort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u171	Thank you for keeping the time limit and, please, for Mr Koubek's microphone, Mr Volný will be prepared. With the de facto Mrs Němcová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u172	Thank you. I have to follow up with my colleague Kalousek. I was talking here about how the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies took place in 2009-2010. In 2010, it was a critical vote on the promotion of biofuels. It was the day before the parliamentary elections. The lobbyists put a lot of pressure on it, and it's mentioned in the press by Andrej Babiš, who tells whom he's been calling. Here in the House, the Social Democrats, the Communists, in particular, pushed it through. These parties were almost in full number, and the same parties are now building on this - now plus YES - to support another one at the moment. I was also talking about what the Treasury Secretary said about a million euros being asked for. I asked him if he told the law enforcement authorities. He said he went to see a notary. Since what I say, the vote and the veto took place in 2010 in May, 27 May 2010, since then Andrej Babiš had to know about this act. He talked about it, if I'm not mistaken, 20. 2. 2012 on Czech Television, i.e. only when he started a political fight. That is quite clear, conclusive, which is why I very much support what Mr Kalousek has said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u173	Thank you for complying with the time limit and now with the proper application by Mr Koubek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u174	Hello. Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I'm just passing the newsletter's desk. I don't see anyone. I'm not suggesting any interruptions, I'd just like us to follow the rules, of course. If I'm not mistaken, it was the rapporteur here today who called for compliance, so I would like you, for example, to arrange for the House to continue following the rules during my speech, Madam Vice-President. Thank you. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance has publicly lied. It's been repeated here today. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the amendment was in agreement, the Minister argued that it was neutral. Another lie made out of the Minister of Finance was also spoken in the media. Contrary to his public promise to vote in favour of ending the support for biofuels, he himself abstained, with three exceptions, the club of his Members voted contrary to the public promise that the members of the YES will vote in favour of ending the support proposed by the YES Member, Mr Karel Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u175	I will ask the House for peace so that the speaker can concentrate on his speech and not be disturbed by the loud speech of his colleagues. If you have something to say, do it in the lobby! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u176	The YES movement prides itself on its website by an article from Hospodářské noviny, which was published at the beginning of May. This article states: The Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Andrej Babiš movement are also to end the support of biofuels. Quote: "I agree with ending tax support for biofuels because I no longer want to listen to Kalouskův's lies and demagogy. The state will not subsidize high-volume biofuels and will save 1.5 billion. per year. It will be paid by citizens and shipping companies at prices. They can thank Kalousek," Babiš told Hospodářské noviny. Minister Babiš was not the only one who promised the end of support for Agrofert's biofuels business. Following the vote on the Committee on Budgets, where the members of the YES did not support the termination of the aid, the chairman of the ANO Club, Mr Faltýnek, publicly said that the ANO Members will vote directly on the House plenary for the proposal to terminate the aid. And how did the President of the Faltýnek Club vote here at the House plenary? He voted against! He voted contrary to his public statement. Mr. Faltýnek lied. Let me quote from the Economic Newspaper on 6 May even further, and let me quote Mr Volný, respectively. There will also be a quote from Mr Free in the whole section, which I am quoting: Vice-President of the Government movement YES Jan Volný pointed out that the ANO Members did not vote against Mr Kalousek's proposal to end the support of biofuels, but that they abstained. And now the quote: "We agreed in the coalition before the committee was held that we would support Mr Rais's amendment and not support Mr Kalousek's amendment," he said. If it were possible to change the voting procedure so that Raisův's proposal would be voted on first, then the Committee would approve Raisův's proposal. - And what did Mr. Volný do to us here? The public promise that if Mr Rais's proposal is first voted on will be approved and that the members of the YES will raise their hand for him. It didn't happen. How did the Volný Member vote? He voted against! Mr. Volný lied. It is quite obvious that, at the moment when the ANO movement and its coalition partners are to vote between the promise they made before the public, and five billion public support for the first Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Finance and his guru, they will then decide on these five billion. The subsequent media firefight was really very magical. The coalition parties tried to blame each other, and Mr. Faltýnek excelled in it. Mr Faltýnek thus appeared in the subsequent vote not only as a liar but also as one who wants to blame his failure on coalition MPs. I quote: "The coalition partners have asked us to hold on to the government's proposal to support high-volume biofuels in order to fulfil our commitments to the EU, and we have therefore honored the position of our two coalition partners," said Mr Faltýnek. Of course, the Social Democrats and the People's Party have turned back and we have seen strong expressions from both social democracy and the people's side to Mr Faltýnek. I quote to the Prime Minister: "We have not asked anyone for anything, we have only informed coalition partners that we will only vote for the proposal put forward by the government because we are not sure what the amendments that have been tabled will lead to," said the Prime Minister and President of Social Democracy, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka. On this point, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club, Mr Roman Sklenák added - and I quote: "Yes, it should stop addressing its media image by hiding behind coalition partners and taking responsibility for its political decisions," said Mr Sklenák on his Twitter. The People's Party stated directly in their press release of 20 May: the YES Movement changed its mind and voted in favour of maintaining the tax support for biofuels, contrary to Mr Karel Rais's amendment. [[19.00 hours]] Jaroslav Faltýnek, President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, said that colleagues from social democracy and KDU-ČSL insisted that members of the ANO movement vote in this way. "It is a lie," said the President of the KDU-ČSL, adding: "That is why I call on Jaroslav Faltýnek to say specifically which KDU-ČSL Member persuaded him to vote. Otherwise, I expect that as a decent person, who is sure to be, KDU-ČSL will publicly apologize to Members," added Mr Mihola. We are therefore witnessing that this government is built on the liars of the YES movement, this government is untrustworthy, because at the moment it is to decide whether to fulfill its public promise to citizens or decide to support the business of Mr. Babiš's guru, so they decided to lie, and you chose for the five billion for your leader. And the Prime Minister is silent. The citizens of this country do not deserve this government to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u177	Thank you, too. Before I invite Mr Volný to the microphone, I also note Mr Fichtner's point of fact, and Mr Koubka, I just want to inform you that when discussing the question of distrust to the Government, the rapporteur may not be present because a single resolution may be made, and that is that the House either expresses its distrust or vice versa. So just for information. And now, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u178	Thank you for the floor, good evening, colleagues. I would just like to point out that it is 19.01. The news is already running on ČT 24, so the speeches can be considerably shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u179	Thank you for keeping the time limit and please contact Mr Volný's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I did not initially want to develop any very long considerations here about what happened, however, I cannot but respond to Mr Koubek. Again with his insolence and arrogance, I would like to ask him, through the President, where does he speak of what public promise? What kind of nonsense is this? Did someone here swear and promise publicly? I draw attention to the fact that the difference between the Committee on Budgets, which discussed and discussed this, and the vote in plenary was more than 10 days. This situation had its development, Mr.Faltýnek, Babiš and several of my colleagues have explained this several times about the design. It wasn't that we wanted to make excuses for our coalition partners. These procedures were plus or minus negotiated at the Coalition Council. We originally wanted, precisely because it was not certain whether the notification would take place in time or not, to suspend the support with the fact that printing 418 would reopen it after the notification in Brussels. Completely logical procedure. After we were assured and at the Coalition Council we heard the opinion of the Minister of Agriculture - and now I really mean it in a good way - that the notification is on the right track and that Europe will grant us the notification, so we said: we will not play theater here for four months and we will withdraw the request to cancel the subsidy. That's all. It wasn't a public promise, it wasn't a turn in one day, it was within 10 days when we really carefully and conscientiously considered how to approach it so that the unauthorized or unratified support wouldn't be here for very long. Well, just an explanation. And the word "public promise" and the deception of citizens and the deception of voters is too strong a word. It's just normal normal development and reasoning when the law is formed. If it's any different, I'm sorry. I don't want to develop any more theories here, I've got an incredible amount of e-mails right around the biofuels discussion and the conflict of interests of our chairman. It really wouldn't be nice to read, especially for our right-wing opposition, but I'm not gonna read all those e-mails here, but I'm gonna read one that really surprised me with his thought. It was written by a bachelor, I don't even know her, the Minister of Justice has confirmed to me that what she's writing is true. I'd really like you to read it in a nutshell. It's for three minutes. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms provides that everyone has the right to own property and to enter into business. This Charter of Fundamental Rights also guarantees individuals to participate in political and public life and access to elected and other public functions. The law on conflicts of interest provides that restrictions on the exercise of office do not apply to the management of own property. Mr Babiš has not violated this Charter or the Conflict of Interest Act by entering politics and has always announced a possible conflict of interest in a timely manner and will not vote on it. Only an absolute majority of Members always decide on the laws. If individual laws, tax advantages or subsidies are adopted by an absolute majority of Members, they cannot be taken into account by anyone but some companies, but they apply to everyone, including Mr Babiš's companies. It's a rule of law that guarantees an equal opportunity in front of the law for everyone. It bothers me that you, ANO, do not object to Mr Kalousek and Mr Fial in such a way as to convict them of demagogy, fanaticism against Mr Babiš and lies by which he fools perhaps less informed voters. It's frustrating where these people are able to go in their hatred and envy of successful people. Perhaps Mr. Babiš will endure, though he certainly did not expect this hatred. Hello and good luck. Please, that's an e-mail I got from a normal simple voter, and it's true. Please, let's not play conflict of interest here, let's not play lawbreakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u181	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Kalousek in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u182	Thank you, don't worry, I won't read e-mails from simple voters, also to learn something, but that's really not an argument. Mr Volný here, he approached Mr Koubek, where he found the claim that a public promise had been broken, and where he got the audacity to say that you were liars. Well, I'll just say it again. The Minister of Finance said Babiš quite publicly, and it is in open sources, it was printed on the first pages that he will vote for the end of biofuels because he no longer wants to listen to Kalouskův's lies. Not because Jurečka brought him some good news because he fought for him there like a lion. Because he doesn't want to listen to Kalouskův's lies anymore. I don't lie, but I keep saying the same thing. However, Minister Babiš, contrary to the expert opinion of his office, lied and voted differently than he publicly promised. After the end of the budget committee, you here, Mr Volný, when I said that the members of the YES have broken a public promise, you said here that the Chamber of Deputies will be in order when Mr Rais's amendment is approved. That's what you said here, not that he didn't. And the press heard it. And on that evening, your President, Mr Faltýnek in Events, comments with me, repeated the same thing: We will all support Mr Rais' amendment - sound video certainly exists - we will support Mr Rais's proposal and we want to end... You want more public vows? Your President Babiš, you, President Faltýnek. All three of you lied for the sake of Agrofert. [[Applause for Members of the TOP 09]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u183	Thank you. And now with the de facto request of Mr Komárek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u184	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to point out who is lecturing us here on the respect for political words. He is a person who really interprets the political process in a very flexible way. Let us just remember that this person, who claims to be a lifelong major anti-communist, has accepted a position in the cabinet of Jiří Paroubek with the support of the Communists because it has benefited him personally. Then, when he was overthrown by truly morally indignant folks, he told us that he did it on purpose to overthrow him. These are historical facts. And this Mr. Kalousek here is preaching to us about political morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u185	I thank you for keeping the time limit, and I will ask everyone to do so by my means if they address their colleagues. I don't want to remind you individually, it's been an advanced hour, I understand you're tired, but we should follow the rules of procedure. Mr. Fiedler's microphone, please. Mr. Mr. Štětina will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u186	Good evening. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would just, if the citizens were watching - before me, Mr Kalousek said it was here, so just to be clear: the Committee on Budgets is sitting in this room of the Chamber of Deputies, and since I too am a member of the Committee on Budgets, I can confirm that this is exactly what happened. Mr Komárek through Mr President - I no longer see him. I would just like to say briefly at the outset: you have said all along that you will do it differently - there is Mr Komárek - that you will do it better, and you are basically putting yourself on the line: why are you criticizing us for this, for we are only doing what they did to you before us. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Well, that's what I see. So I'm a little confused about your election slogans here. I would like to thank Mr Koubek, because he said very precisely and precisely here, he commented on the events as they ran, thereby making it easier for me to work, but he took a bit of my speech. And to the honourable Member, through the President, of course, always, the Volný One, the promise of the public and the promise. So if you guys were really serious about the way you presented them, and today they said it wasn't a public promise, so if you were telling the truth, you'd be saying, "We're considering how we're going to end up acting, we're going to consider the situation based on how the reports from the European Union are going to be from Brussels, whether it's going to be press 418 or not, and then we're going to decide. But you clearly said that you would end or that you would vote to end the support for biofuels. And that's a pretty big difference, don't be mad at me. After all, I would return a little to the basic substance of the matter and what has been said here several times, as is the case with the funding for the promotion of the sale of biofuels. Of course, it's true that 9 billion don't go directly to those manufacturers, the corresponding amount of 5 or 5.4 billion, the roughly 60 percent don't get directly to the Agrofert Group. That, of course, is true. It is, however, an amount intended to promote the sale of these biofuels. She doesn't choose on excise duty, she doesn't come into the state budget, while citizens might have to pay more for petrol, but they won't get any other services that could pay for that unselected excise duty. I have registered an article by Erik Best in the Internet media where he talks or writes that Agrofert will make 20 billion out of this business. I'm not saying that. I don't know how much it's grown up, it's probably been calculated from some turnover, some profit, and because I don't see Mr. Vice Prime Minister here, I would - and I'm trying to find some data on this - so I'd like to hear what the profit from the sale of this is, because if the non-selected excise tax is supported by the sale of these biofuels, then the producer of those biofuels is essentially generating some almost guaranteed revenue. And as a good businessman, he does it for profit. And here's the guaranteed profit, here's the money we're talking about, which we don't care about as opposition. I don't know if I'm going to get an answer to what the real benefit is, if it's the 20 billion, I don't know, I'm not saying it in any way, I'm just asking the question roughly orientally, what order are we talking about, what is the benefit of selling the biofuels? Mrs Lorencová has spoken here about the qualities of the laws put forward and what we are adopting. Well, I'll look into the 418 press, the RIA report. Point 3.1. The proposal will have a negative impact on public budget collection as a result of tax advantages for clean biofuels and high-percent blends of biofuels with traditional fossil fuels. The annual amount of aid is between 1.5 and 1.8 billion, with an estimated CZK 700 million by the end of 2015. Cumulatively, the aid is expected to reach around those many times mentioned and rehabilitated 9 billion between 2015 and 2020. It goes on to say: The aid will lead to new jobs, of which between 14.6 and 16.2 billion will be transferred to public budgets. Crowns. These additional revenues of public budgets are therefore to outweigh and, overall, have a positive effect on public budgets. Well, I'm commenting now. We were - well, not us, the Chamber of Deputies, that's exactly what voters often say to us "you voted in the House," so I say that we didn't vote, that was voted by coalition parties, we voted differently, you extended the current situation after all. And so I'm asking where these new jobs are going to come from when what we have today is just getting longer. I don't see any new job creations with huge bills in billions. If this really created new jobs, if the production of MERO rape were to increase, I understand that some new jobs would be created, but here it just doesn't have the logic that the justification that is part of the press 418 says that there will be revenue here. And I dare say that's a hypothesis. Plus, as is customary, and so if that's not true, then I'd like to get to know it, is there any calculation of what the accumulated contributions to the state budget will be from those new jobs, or is it just a figure that was invented? If that's the case, and billions really fly here, 14 to 16 billion, I'd like to know if there's a calculation or a justification for where the new jobs are created when we're just maintaining the current situation. In addition, point 3.2, I quote from the RIA report: However, this negative impact may be positively influenced by the involvement of petrochemical refineries in the hydrocracking process in the treatment of oil and fat residues of fatty acids in the near future, according to the programme. - But they're excluded from the aid. Here the report explains that they will be supported, in other words, by second and third generation biofuels, but as I have studied the materials, it only concerns the famous rape, so I do not know where these data are taken. I would like to say to Mrs Lorencová that even the quality of this bill presented has, in my opinion, really weak spots. What my colleague Koubek has been talking about, let me just reminisce about it. You've basically been saying for two weeks how you're not in favour of supporting the biofuels. You didn't say you were considering it, that you'd see how you decided in the finals. You guys clearly said you'd be in favor of ending the support. And I'm asking you what made you so convinced. You stated that they were your coalition partners, but your coalition partners strongly opposed it, even the chairman of KDU Mihola asked for an apology, and as I have registered, I do not know how the ČSSD parliamentary club, and I believe that they did not persuade you, Members of the ANO movement. [[19.20 hours]] But then I ask the KDU and ČSSD Members - why did you approve of this? What made you do that? What were the reasons? Did the lobby work? I don't know. Agricultural? Producing rape? It's business for them, too. Not only for the rape processors, but also for the rape producers. And I think this is where we're getting closer to the point. Then it's a guinea pig. We, of course, even though we are Members of various parliamentary clubs, are still talking to each other. And I was quite surprised when I learned from some of the members of the ANO MEP's club or when I heard a statement from them saying that they didn't really know what they were voting for. It is good to hear here that the citizens, the voters who are such supporters of the YES movement, do not know what they are voting on at times. That they are directed by the club president and voted accordingly. I wasn't the only one who heard that. What was it then? There was a three-way agreement in the government coalition that the ČSSD went off the power bill, yes goes on biofuels and KDU, I don't know, we leave the restitution in peace? About the power bill. That should also be mentioned here. There was an amendment that I tabled, which tried to deal with fines for those cheating on solar power. This Chamber of Deputies rejected him. So, respectable citizens, when you have some problem that you have an electric meter disconnected or some confusion, and even then, of course, there is such a fine, you will get a reasonable fine for you. I just want to say that this government coalition here has driven through the fact that it will continue with the fact that anyone who illegally draws subsidies for solar power will be affected by the maximum by returning what he has obtained illegally. In other words, there is no fine for those who cheat with a statement on solar power production. This amendment was in this House, and you, gentlemen of the coalition, rejected it, did not agree. You didn't let him through. That is another reason why I cannot be entirely in favour of this government. Economic development, tax collection and non-tax collection. The election vows that were here. We've heard about how much better things are gonna be here. I found a mention on the Internet that on Twitter February 20, 2013 Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš spoke about how easy it is that 200 billion will be saved, because 90 billion is probably not tax collection, so those taxes will stick to it to be collected. $100 billion is gonna get stolen, so if you're gonna stick around to not stealing that $100 billion, it's just gonna be about the extra $200 billion, and everything's gonna be beautiful, and we're gonna be fine. ejhle, the reality of practical political life has arrived, populist pre-election promises have floated, and today, at a time when our economy is growing - we will wait for the data from the second quarter - but in the first quarter our tax collection decreased, which is a paradox, although this is justified by the fact that economic growth is driven by consumption, or logically, the VAT collection should increase, but reality is different. So the pre-election populist vows suddenly floated away. There was a memory from Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš, aircraft L-159, a complete match to Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I criticized it, too. I had an interview with the Prime Minister, he's behind me. The Prime Minister probably answered that in his mind that he was aware of it, but that it was too long ago and that it was difficult to deal with today. So either don't remind me, my dear government, because Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš is a member of us or solve this. About the attitude of our MP. Some of us were tacky, blaming ourselves for joining the right-wing opposition. I registered on TV yesterday on the evening show Events, comments, where the absent chairman of the ODS club now mentioned how it is with the support of the law. Today, I have had statistics on how our Dawn Group voted on individual laws, which were mostly government laws. I have not counted which were government, which parliamentary, but we supported 79 laws in the third vote. We are not a priori against everything, we are not a priori opposition. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, we said that we would support sensible things, and we would not support unreasonable things. And we don't really care who's doing or not doing these unreasonable things, we're gonna do this on a case-by-case basis. And exactly in the spirit of our election vow, we have now also acted, and if we see that something is wrong here, we are criticizing it. That's all we do. It has been said several times that the citizens voted in the elections of the YES movement and that they were aware of it. I'm not quite sure they were aware of the reach it had. And we're doing nothing but fulfilling our opposition role. How many more populist pre-election vows will you make and defend? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u187	Thank you, too, and I have three facts here. First to the microphone of Mr Kalousek, Mr Nykl will be prepared and then Mr Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u188	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief addition to Mr Fiedler, who wondered where the new 14,000 jobs were coming from the increased production of rape. It's there. We'll talk about it tomorrow. The Minister of Finance, in his desire to help Agrofert, did not only update the excise tax law as much as possible, but also amended the Air Protection Act. And there's a combination of those two laws that today, in the current legal state, says that as much as you sell that subsidized pure fuel, you don't have to mix so much in ordered ratios into fossil fuel. The Minister of Finance, and he probably owns the Air Protection Act, in the press that we will discuss tomorrow, has suggested that this option is reduced by 70 percent. That means, no matter how much you sell the subsidised pure fuel, you still have to mix at least 70 percent of the ordered ratio, which theoretically means up to 70 percent mandatory increase in sales of the Minister of Finance's products. And he calculates the 14,000 new jobs, which is stupid, because if rape is not grown there, something else will grow there, but the profits of the Minister of Finance and the owner of Agrofert will increase by another 70 percent on the basis of the law that Mr. Factory wrote. We'll discuss it again tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u189	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Nykl's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u190	Good evening. I wanted to ask Mr Fiedler through the President not to use the phrases he said in the YES movement that he heard that some Members did not even know what they voted on on biofuels. You can't say that in general. So tell me who, why, but talk like that and just from the mouth of you, Dawn Party MP. I'd rather have a little humility and self-esteem. What happened with your side, what we saw here behind the case, in your case, I'd be cool, humble, listen, change that attitude a little bit. And I'm sure it's not nice to make false accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u191	Thank you. I am now asking the de facto Mr Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u192	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, elections were held in 2013 and citizens who, according to Mr Blažek, had not yet been instructed and who, according to Mr Fiedler's words, were yet to see through, elected us to the Chamber of Deputies. This created a situation where the only government capable of governance arose here on the ground plan of the current coalition. That's right. And I don't think any of those sides of the coalition are very happy about it, he thinks of it as a marriage of reason. But the government rules, it's stable and it's doing something. This is an extremely important fact that we should not ignore. [[19.30 hours]] Of course, the opposition has the holy right to call for a vote of distrust to the government, that's okay. But if we're going to do this, then we shouldn't be based on cheap arguments, where the bill on the promotion of biofuels is the detonator. I did not vote for the law or have anything to do with Agrofert, but I have to say that instead of discussing whether it makes any sense at all and what Europe pushed us to do on the basis of pointless speculation about the price of diesel or ill-advised decisions relating to the environment, instead of this analysis, we hear theatrical performances where we are accused of stealing $5 billion. I'm obviously a member of this group, too. If we stick to the facts, this discussion makes sense. But there are also notes here that remind me of Dr. Strossmayer's famous statement from the Hospital on the outskirts of town: If stupidity were raised, many of you would be floating here like doves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u193	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Adamec's microphone, Mr Bendl will be prepared, both with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u194	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would react very briefly to the contribution of my colleague Nykl, who is reprimanding Members for the Úsvit movement, so that the ANO movement does not push some things about how they behave. I've been far away, but if you've noticed, I've been protesting here when Prime Minister Babiš pointed out to us that we were stealing, that someone here wanted some money, and it seems to me that it's even worse than this case, and I haven't been answered. So I think we could really forgive ourselves for this. And I would say that even worse is this case, when it comes to us, it shows us as thieves. Well, I'm very much protesting it. And when I wanted an explanation of who was stealing, just like don't be angry, I wouldn't be satisfied with that everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u195	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone with Mr Bendl in fact, Mr Novotný will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u196	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to tell Mr Pilný, through you, that the EU does not force us to take the step that you have taken in the Consumer Tax Act and on biofuels. It's not true. I will try to explain that by speeding up and increasing the consumption of biofuels and the need to process biofuels in the Czech Republic in a proper debate because I need two minutes to do this. But don't say here that the EU is forcing us to do something. It is not true that Europe is forcing us to take the step you have taken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u197	Thank you, and I am now asking Mr Novotný, Mr Blažek, in fact, as well as Mr Blažek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u198	Have a good night. About the quotes from the TV shows. What about Dr. Strossmayer back then? And in what situation did he tell Sister Huňková at the time? He asked her to give the patient some kind of medicine. He told her repeatedly, and Nurse Huňková gave another medicine. And at that moment, Dr. Strossmayer said, "If stupidity had floated, you would have floated like a dove." There was something said here, too. This is that you will be voting repeatedly for Dr Rais's proposal. So the question is, how do you interpret Dr. Strossmayer in connection with this situation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u199	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Blažek, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u200	Thank you. I, in response to Mr Pilný. I didn't say in the show three hours ago, or when it was. I was talking about the fact that voters don't always understand and fall for the different baits that they are, and I didn't say in any way that, for example, the ODS after long years of governance and certain performances, that the stupidity of the electorate manifests itself so that it didn't vote for the ODS, as it's basically said. That's not what I meant at all. I was just basically saying that the voter once again thought that maybe someone was going to be a politician, and because he's so rich, he doesn't need any more money. It turns out it's just not true. That's what I meant, nothing more, nothing less. But it wasn't about me thinking that the voter was stupid when the ODS didn't win, so I'm really not stupid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u201	Thank you. And now, with Mr Štětin's proper application, Mrs Hnyková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u202	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I didn't really want to talk. I do not want to participate in the bad operetta that always sounds here when the so-called opposition - and I was both a coalition MP and an opposition MP in the past period - is never going to do anything. It leads to insults, to the max. It's a thing that lasts for a very long night. That's why I didn't sign under the 50 members who asked for this House to be convened. However, yesterday, when I read the Lidové noviny, in which was on the first page of the article Corruption Hunters must report cases to the authorities. And we, ladies and gentlemen, have returned deep into 2009, when this regulation was issued by the director of the ÚOKFK, it was on 9 August 2009, which is my birthday, and basically prevented any investigation when a serious criminal report was filed. I volunteered because I want to remind you, and I'm not really going to discuss who stole more and who steals more, I don't understand it, I'm just a regular phlegm, and I think there's so many words out here. All I know is that this republic is at a negative that counts in trillions, and I think this government didn't do it, it's pretty short in power, so it probably couldn't have caused it. So maybe those who have been here in the past should talk more about it. And I really need to recall Article 4 of this internal regulation, which has number 123, and we have also used it in the Opencard investigation committee, and warn that we cannot allow this. In this Article, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 1 states: "Before operational search activity begins, the authorised police officer shall inform his direct superior or, in his absence, the relevant chief police officer or other police officer designated by the head of the department via e-mail.' What did this lead to? That it wasn't spared that it hadn't been done, and those who caused the damage to this state were warned in advance, and basically nothing was solved. Only in 2011, under Colonel Martinec's leadership, this was cancelled. So it's really my very short reminder, and I'd really like this not to happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u203	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mrs Hnyková, Mr Lank will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Okay, I'm gonna put on my glasses and get started. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen and representatives of the government, let me say a few words about my signature, which I have made clear is that I do not like the way the government coalition voted in favour of biofuels last week on Wednesday. A billion-dollar deal that affects every citizen in this country. And I would look at it a little bit practically, as if from our people's lives. When I think about how we could use the state money that comes into private hands in this case, I think of those who need it most, and these are our citizens. [[19.40 hours]] Our country has not bloomed in recent years, but poor and poor our people. Do you mind, Prime Minister and honourable ministers, that there are one and a half million people living in poverty in our country and thousands of other people living on the poverty line? It bothers me - and I see that neither the Prime Minister nor the Chairman of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club is okay with this. [[They're having fun next to the bench.]] Well, I'll wait for him to set it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u205	Madam, I will be sure to ask both of the gentlemen concerned, if they have said so in the lobby, because my colleague is disturbing it. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u206	Not only am I disturbed, Madam President, but I think both gentlemen should listen to this. Well, it bothers me, and I'm sure this money would help them. It's useless to tell you here how this poverty devastates people and triggers tensions in their lives and in society. Have you thought about this during the vote on biofuels? Among these poor are our seniors. Do you know that more than half of them can't reach their average pension, and they have 71 crowns a day for the necessary needs? If you bothered and came to the seminar on care for the disabled, which took place on April 17, you would hear how these people live. How they must appeal after administrative proceedings to the court to defend their contribution to care, even if their disability is more than obvious. In addition, each crown would help tenfold in this area. Do you mind that one fifth of children live in poverty? That they don't have lunches at school parties? That there are foundations where money is being sent so these kids can eat? That's where this money could be used, too. Why is there always a collection in our country for seriously ill children who need treatment? And it's not just about the kids. Foundations are created to support the treatment of various diseases. That's where the money could be put, too! Where do we live, anyway? The state will support biofuels for billions and people need to collect money among themselves to treat Czech people. What about families with children? Wouldn't those families be better off if the family were better supported and secure for the education and education of their children? And in recent years, thanks to the previous government, real wages have declined for firefighters and policemen. We've heard it here today. From the current ministers, it is regularly said that it will correct this injustice. When will it be? Would this money ideally be here for these very purposes? You, Minister Babiš, through Madam President, went to the election with the motto "We will arrange it." Yes. You were right. You really made it happen. You run the state like a company. There's a deal, so why not use it? What do I care about ordinary people? Let them live as they please! How could you let this happen? You have to realize that you don't run a business, but you're the finance minister who's supposed to manage the state's money responsibly and with proper care, not pass money on to his companies! You don't have enough money in your bank account that you need more? You told me how you put tens of millions in social services. And I asked why. If you had sent the money from the state budget you promised for social services this year, it wouldn't have happened that the money was missing now. The County Association must now explain to you what it needs that money for! Have you forgotten that you have increased, you and the other ministers, the money of social workers and the workers in direct care? Do you know how you all sit here, how difficult it is to care for people like that who care about seniors and disabled people? How selfless must she be every day, kind, empathetic? How do families have to replace these people? Fill their wishes, lead the agenda with that? And how difficult is caring for a person? And do you even know that a caretaker like that, if she lives to be in relative health, retirement, and one day she'll need care in such a facility that she won't even be able to afford it? Couldn't these people be added from this money as well? I'm not talking about health problems here. There's a lot of them. I just can't forgive myself for saying that if the work of nurses were appreciated, a number of hospitals wouldn't have to think about how they would operate. Wouldn't these workers deserve a raise in their salaries? Madam Secretary and Dear Ministers, you have failed. You supported the business of one big businessman at the expense of all of us. Don't convince me we have to follow orders from Brussels. All of us, sitting here, working together to fix this country. Our country. And again, we have a lot of problems here, and we need to help our people and not just some individuals. I'm disappointed in you, Minister Babiš, as a man, and I know it's not just me. And your password will be better! add another slogan: Only for my chosen ones. And now I turn to you, Prime Minister, and I ask you what you have been working for in quotation marks for your Members to support biofuels. Where is your responsibility for this country again? Prime Minister, I am disappointed in you, too, because you approved the biofuels business. Take it up with your conscience and your ministers too. I'm expressing my distrust, and I'm disappointed that so soon after the election, you rode into the same dorm that was here in the past few years. I'm starting to think that you don't give a damn how citizens live and what we all spend our money on. I know you're gonna get away with voting on trust, but you realize that everything isn't okay and that you're not fixing this country well, and the vote on biofuels was proof of that. Finally, Prime Minister, I will ask you, if you happen to want to adopt President Fiala's idea that you would change the positions of ministers, so don't put Minister Babiš on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Because he doesn't understand social issues, and as we learned today, he's here by mistake. And I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u207	Mr. Lank's microphone, please. Mrs Havlová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u208	Madam President, dear government, dear colleagues, we have heard a lot of arguments here about why this government deserves or does not deserve our trust and, above all, public confidence. As I feared, it turned out to be exactly what I was afraid of. This means that this is exactly who stole more, which government was worse, and we are simply confused in the past instead of dealing with the present and possibly the future. I'm gonna start from one slightly different keg here, at least let me freshen it up a little bit. I would like to open up a very delicate subject that I think is closely related to the issue of trust to the government. It is a proposal from the European Commission for quotas for the reception of refugees. I would remind you that there are even several variations. The first is to run so called. an emergency mechanism in which, as the Czech Republic, we should adopt 525 refugees. The second proposal is so called. the permanent relocation of asylum seekers between the countries of the European Union, within which we would have to accept over 5,500 refugees. Even higher numbers showed up. I repeat once again that receiving refugees is not the solution to the problem. We're dealing with the consequences, not the cause. The tide of refugees is, as no one seems to deny, huge. Last year, more than 185,000 people from 626 thousand asylum seekers received asylum. Every week, the Coast Guard in the Mediterranean pulls thousands of refugees out of the sea. According to estimates, up to 200,000 illegal immigrants can only arrive in Italy this year. We consider this issue absolutely essential. Although the Czech Government has expressed itself in the sense that it does not support quotas. However, we are not sure whether such an opinion will be enforced decisively within the European Union. The problem is also that the Czech Republic may be outvoted in the quota procedure by other countries and will have to accept them despite its opposition. [[19.50 hours]] We are very concerned about the words of the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz, who said that many countries speak differently behind closed doors than on microphones. It seems to me that some Czech MEPs, too, voted in favour of these quotas. We are therefore very concerned that our government is taking this seriously with regard to the fight against quotas, especially when the pro-European social democracy is at the forefront. In this case, the Czech Republic must proceed in a non-negotiable and ultimate way. It is one thing to disagree and to wait for the outcome, the other to be the leader of the opposition to the European Commission. What the Czech Republic really needs is the hardest possible resistance in this case, and here, frankly, I do not trust our completely pro-European government very much. If I am to really trust Prime Minister Sobotk to prevent the involuntary reception of refugees, either on the basis of quotas or otherwise, he would very much like to hear it from him publicly on a microphone. I want to hear that it guarantees us and all citizens that it will prevent this and that it takes personal political responsibility for it. Before that happens, I don't have much reason to trust this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u209	Thank you, and please, to Mrs Havlová's microphone, Mrs Chalánková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u210	Madam Vice-President, members of the Government, colleagues, above all I am sorry and sad at the same time that today's meeting has turned into personal attacks. We have heard many times today that this government is not fulfilling what it has promised citizens, and I, above all, would accuse it of participating in the interventions. Furthermore, I would like to focus on the transport department, in which the situation has certainly not improved despite the way everyone has spoken before me, how bad it was in the past government. I'm going to start at the point I've initiated and touching the entire Moravian-Silesian region. It's an investigation committee on the D47 highway. As we all know, this commission was established in November 2014 and today it has been over six months since the launch of the investigation has been blocked because the President is not elected. It is quite clear sabotage from the coalition, which on the outside claims how welcome it welcomes the committee, but backstage it does everything to keep it from working. What is happening at the D47 Commission has not yet been experienced by the Chamber of Deputies. Think about it. Is that what fulfilling promises means to investigate villainies of the past? Does this really look like a sincere effort to set up a commission? No way. It's just stalling and trying not to save trouble on D47. It's no way that blocking an investigation happens when the D47 Bridges make key decisions about their repair. The repair of the bridges, which apparently started yesterday, is irretrievably destroying evidence. If the evidence is destroyed by repairs, the courts will never have anything to decide, and the Czech Republic will never have to get the money back for those fucked-up bridges. Today is the time for the commission to act and monitor. I'm worried that the activities of the Department of Transport lead to annihilation of tracks. I therefore ask the Minister: Can he also publicly guarantee us and the public that the reconstruction of bridges will not endanger further enforcement of claims from Eurovia? Another thing the Ministry couldn't handle, and the then management of the Road and Motorway Directorate pointed out in 2012 is toll collection. I know the current minister can get out here and say he couldn't make it, etc. But the problem is that the government has been in power for a year and a half, and that is certainly enough time to solve the myth. The current government has political responsibility for not launching a new myth contest. The transport department is hurting by the Minister's change, and if the Minister's proper at the Ministry of Transport from the beginning, the tender was made and there was no need to exchange six CEOs to ŘSD. And I'm afraid they left with a fat severance package, including the directors of the sections, with taxpayers' money. So let me conclude by asking a rhetorical question: are we here to challenge each other personally or to make the opposition clear about what she is not satisfied with and what is she blaming the government for? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u211	Thank you, and now please, with the priority right of Minister Took. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u212	Madam President, honourable Members, I did not wish to intervene too much in this debate, but I would like to make two points right here. The first thing is: the Ministry of Transport has absolutely nothing to do with this committee of inquiry, it is the Parliament Committee, so saying that the Department of Transport is failing here is quite a big exaggeration. Second comment, about hiding evidence on bridges on D47: If we hadn't come to the repair, we'd have had the evidence wasted, but then we'd have the evidence against each other that we didn't behave with proper care, because the bridges would have fallen. So we fix them, we fix them for everyone who's supposed to ride them. I don't think any citizen cares if we have the evidence or if we don't. He's wondering whether he can drive or not. I just wanted to say one thing. When repairing there is documentation, we document every step, i.e. any evidence that could be used in court will be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u213	Thank you, Minister. Please contact the microphone duly signed in by Mrs Chalánková, Mr Karamazov will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words. I watched very closely at the KDU-ČSL convention. Very carefully because I was hoping that the folks would find the courage to define themselves against the current style of governance accompanied by an unprecedented conflict of interest, to sign up to the democratic legacy of their founder, to the policy of growth and stabilization of a free society. Today's political reality of the gradual oligarchisation of society, and not of governance, but of the direct use of the state as its own companies, must necessarily be frightened by both ordinary members and senior representatives of KDU-ČSL. That is why I was delighted to hear words from the leaders of this coalition party strongly rejecting the pathological manifestations of current governance. In particular, I would like to highlight the sentence from Vice-President Bartošek's mouth: "If we accept that the state is a company, in which case we ourselves will help to destroy democracy in this country." I am grateful to the Vice-President for these words. I believe that it has been spoken with full seriousness, with the knowledge of the consequences that may result in the continuation of the current way of dealing with the government in our country. KDU-ČSL representatives in this House have the opportunity right now to prove that what was said at their convention was not merely a pre-election declaration, and they can do so with a clear vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u215	I thank Mrs Jitka Chalánková for her speech and Mr Simeon Karamazov will take the floor, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u216	You're nothing but a bunch and opponents of beneficial administration. You're nothing but hired scoundrels. You'd sell your country for a piece of miserable food. Is there anything good in you? How disgusting you are to an entire nation that has charged you with righting wrongs. - Dear colleagues, I quote from Oliver Cromwell's speech in 1653 in the British Parliament. It's like this man was talking about your government over 300 years ago. The government of willlessness and will, a government that hurts active and hardworking people. You raise taxes to waste revenue from them in operating expenses, which you will only increase by an incredible 10,5 billion this year. You accept new officials instead of shrinking the state administration. You're bothering citizens with new and new paperwork. You have introduced mandatory check reports for VAT payers. You don't even let people beat a tree in their own garden without needing a special permit. You're putting more money on welfare rather than getting those who deliberately avoid work to stop parasites on the system. But you punish decent and honest people. After all, the Minister of Industry and Trade did not hesitate to call the traders parasites. What good is a government that doesn't even know that tradesmen and small entrepreneurs are holding the Czech Republic's economy above water? If you're going to do something good, it stays with the words. If you want to do harm, you do so now. You're starting the register. This will prevent many people from doing business. You are inspired in Croatia, where the system failed. You imitate the Balkans instead of watching tax collection work in the West. That's where we want to belong. I understand you don't want to look in there. Otherwise, you would see that such a huge conflict of interest in which Andrej Babiš is located is not possible in a liberal democracy. However, we citizens do not want to live in despotic oligarchy. Such a system would only suit one person - Andrej Babiš. How is it that the Minister of Finance is lying and awkwardly making excuses? How else can we describe the situation when he claimed a few days ago that the YES movement would not support the Biofuel Act? When his Members raised their hand for the law, the Minister explained this discrepancy between speech and action by the mutiny of the MP's club. And it's clear to everyone that it's 5 billion that Agrofert gets. According to journalist Erik Best, Babišův's business depends on the law. Thanks to biofuels to Agrofert, an incredible 20 billion will come each year. CZK, which is 12% of the total sales of the company. It's an unimaginable number. We can't just stand by and watch the Treasury Secretary pass the money into his own pocket. I ask you, members of the government, why don't you defend the interests of the citizens, but only the interests of your own. Why don't you stand up for the interests of our country in the European Union? Why do you insist on adopting the euro even though there are no reasonable reasons for this? Why don't you introduce a meaningful vision of how to face terrorism and illegal migration? The reason is your incompetence, but not your interest. Your goal is only to benefit you and your friends. Prime Minister Sobotka promotes socialism that has failed so many times. It pushes for ever greater control of our lives, an ever greater dependence on the state that guards our every move as a big brother. Andrej Babiš has no vision. Just a specific interest in getting more money. The Prime Minister and the Finance Minister are openly in business together. The first will allow others to enrich themselves at the expense of all, the second will support the first in the introduction of socialism. I am sure that such a form of corruption will not be supported by any Member who actually answers to his conscience and his voters. This vicious government must not be tolerated by anyone who is not indifferent to this country's future. That is why I call for this government to be distrusted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u217	I thank Mr Simeon Karamaz. Mr. Miroslav Grebeníček will take the floor, Mr. Marek Černoch will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u218	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the behavior and conduct of many people, despite the long historical period of human development, even in current social conditions, it is clear that historically primitive instinct and biological cross-compliance have remained almost unchanged. The primitive foundation remained almost untouched, it is only sometimes subtlely hidden under the skin of a wannabe's cultured appearance. Our actions today are also evidence of this. It is noteworthy, above all, that the proposal to voice distrust to the current government raises in particular the part of the opposition that controls the methods of creating virtual reality and also gives it an extraordinary space in the media, just as it was used to be used to disgracefully pronounce their fallen government as a government of budgetary responsibility and the fight against corruption and godparents and their former Prime Minister Petr Nečas as a clean man. Yes, the image of the government of a pure, honest Catholic, Democrat and anti-corruption fighter has taken on a scale that has risen to its perfect heights. It all ended, as you all know, with an incredible fiasco. I want to be properly understood. If I submit strong and uncompromising criticisms to a comic farce on the issue of credibility that the leaders of the right-wing opposition are trying to play, I do not intend to defend the mistakes of the current government, including the mistakes of Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and his political movement, whose assets, unlike the Czech Republic, are constantly growing. However, there is no indication that the current government is a disaster for the Republic and for the citizens of the extent that Petr Nečas' government was. I dare even say that the current not-so-confident government, which I have no reason to support, stands, if I want to be objective, still a class higher than its shamefully fallen predecessor. No, we can't expect that the problems that are becoming more and more evident today will be solved by someone for us. The question is whether further errors and errors will continue, or a new, healthier form of society will be formed, in which, as far as possible, even more sensitive and intense tension will be eliminated in particular on social issues. For example, the fact that children from socially weak families often lack money for school lunches today and that they have been looking at happier classmates' snacks in schools has been warning teachers and some charity organizations for a long time. And is the current Czech state and its budget really so bad that children from income-weak families can no longer spend traditional events such as ski training, school in nature, school trip and visit the theatre together with better situated classmates? Indeed, the Czech Republic is so poor that not only many quality interest and sports activities, but quite ordinary interest groups can only afford children from families who can afford it? The expression of ministerial ministers that Czech children from socially weak families could be paid for by school lunches by means of so-called means. European funds, evokes many. For example, soup events for children unemployed in the interwar period. And perhaps the tradition of soups cooked in their time to starving citizens of our republic as proof that they are not cared for by their own government and that the protector will help them. Is the current cabinet really so infirm that lunch will only provide the poorest students with money from Brussels? [[20.10 hours]] A half-million-dollar army of unemployed people is undoubtedly one of the most pressing problems in today's Czech Republic. I also recall that in our Republic, 900,000 people are at risk of poverty and 2 million people live on the border or below the threshold of material distress. Thus, even today, decent living conditions, work and a fair wage, but also peace and serious cooperation between nations are not a matter of course. Again and again, we must avert the danger of threatening peace, human civil rights, social progress, equality, freedom and the very existence of human life. And it is all the more urgent how, before our eyes, the ruthless cynicism of the governments of the United States of America, the generality of the North Atlantic Alliance and the papalists of the European Union, leads to the emergence of new and new expansions and conflicts. Bombing, breaking and robbing entire states, military bases controlling the world - it has nothing to do with democracy, freedom and fundamental human rights. And it is a disgrace to the current Czech government that it still supports this policy, that it participates in it and does not openly oppose it. No, the Czech government should not be pushed into the corner by pointless arguments such as: who does not shut up heels and keep his mouth shut and step up, is for Putin, against the United States and the North Atlantic Alliance, and even against freedom and democracy. I read somewhere that in Pilsen they say one street called the Class of Political Mistakes. Gradually it was called Stodolní, Jungmannův, then císař František Josef, after the First World War Wilsonův, during the Nazi occupation it was Bahnhofstrasse, then Karel IV, and its part was even Class of Victory since 1942. After World War II it was Stalinův, then Moscow, after August 1968 briefly Ludvík Svoboda and then Moscow again. Last time she changed her name in 1991 to the current American. No offense. After all, the streets of political mistakes are much, much more. It just bothers me that modern powers are more loyal to the United States and the North Atlantic Alliance today than to the Czech Republic and its citizens. No, Czech citizens should not pay preferentially for what the Hellish cuisine of the United States and their powerful allies or Czech footmen has cooked. It is also necessary to make it clear in the future that the current government coalition is also climbing somewhere, that Czech citizens should not be paid for lying and cheating, which no one asked for their opinion, let alone agreeing to spend huge amounts of money in various African and Asian wars, occupations and coups. Sometimes I feel that all this chatter about truth and love was just a veil for property coups, local conflicts, and monstrous chanting and criminalizing the living and the dead. That, too, may have been the reason why I found the courage to go upstream after November 1989 and publicly apply to the concept of a fundamental leftist policy that commands me to compete with those who threaten not only Czech society but also Europe and the whole global world. Despite all this, I will not support the initiative of the Civil Democratic Party, the TOP 09 and the Dawn in any way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u219	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk. The words will be taken by colleague Marek Černoch. Mr. Michal Kučera will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u220	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Although many of us see today's meetings as a farce, let's face it, there's nothing funny about it. I would also like to oppose the argument that, as opposition today, we have no chance of asserting anything. Our main goal is to draw attention to what is happening in the background of the government and appeal to members of the coalition parties to reach into their conscience and admit to themselves and to the public that they support this situation and are personally responsible for each of them. Indeed, a great deal has been said from the government coalition, but very little has really been about why today's vote on distrust took place in the government. This is also true, or more importantly, of the speeches of the Prime Minister and of the finance minister concerned. Let's get back to the facts, because they're being ridiculed here. Instead of being explained, attention is turned to the causes of the past. This in the case of Mr Babiš and in the case of the Prime Minister, the argument was replaced by self-consciousness that the Czech economy, behind the European economy, had finally begun to extricate itself from the global recession, as if it were due to this government. Let's get back to the facts. The Minister of Finance is in an unprecedented conflict of interest, which he uses for the benefit of his companies. That's right. The entire coalition, headed by the Prime Minister, openly supports him and approves this precedent. That's a fact too. The European Union's biofuels support strategy has been dampened and the 2020 deadline has been recommended for Member States to end it so that countries do not have to change legislation. In our case, the legislation envisaged the term 2015. This coalition, for no reason, and against the European Union's recommendation, has agreed another wasteful five years to subsidize private business from its pockets. I would use the saying here that the subsidy of any form is, in fact, a legalized corruption. Someone's gonna take someone away, and at their discretion, they're gonna give someone else away. The Minister of Finance can handle both sides of the coin himself. He has as much key information as any other businessman in the country, even in the past. Moreover, the fact that it wants to crown in the near future by introducing an electronic record of sales so that it will have a real-time overview of each trading transaction in the country is also considered. And it's not that we're against tax collection or that we want to support some scumbags in any way. It is about the fact that we have been supporting the register of contracts that have been in this House for over a year now, and although it should be a priority for this government, it has not yet come to that. There's other stuff going on instead. We simply do not want this precedent to become a standard in the future of the Czech Republic, because there are still many somewhat less serious reasons to express distrust of this government, such as poor, disunited foreign policy at a time of huge migration, very important, inability to collect taxes. I urge everyone in their speeches and, above all, in voting - let us devote ourselves to the facts, to our own responsibility for the future of this country. And in conclusion, one more thing. The finance minister here said it was change for him. I don't know if he meant a plane ticket to America or the subsidies, but for most people, there's no change or twenty crowns or fifty crowns. And I take that sentence as a mockery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u221	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Mr Michal Kučera will take the floor. Mr. Vilímec will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u222	Good evening. Thanks for the word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no problem with this, many may shrug over it, that Andrej Babiš is sitting in the House. It is the will of the voters, and Andrej Babiš has been democratically elected. Many personalities have been elected in the past. I suspect that Klement Gottwald was also democratically elected. But what I have a fundamental problem with is that the votes of members of the People's and Social Democracy Party have become the finance minister of the likely agent of Communist State Security, media magnate and owner of the business empire in one person. This is unprecedented in European democracies. This has moved us somewhere to the Middle East, all with the active participation of the party of popular and social democracy. I have no problem with the Social Democratic Government, which is based on success in elections. I do not agree with the social democratic programme as a conservative policy, I have a number of reservations about it, but I consider the social democratic programme legitimate, European and I am always prepared to confront social democrats on the basis of factual arguments. I must admit that I have also spent hours and hours of discussions - factual, intelligent, and enriching. On most things, we disagreed with the Social Democrats. But that's also legitimate. However, I have always respected and respected my social democracy opponents. That's why I'm literally terrified of what we're witnessing today. In any other European country, it is not possible for the Finance Minister to become the owner of one of the largest companies and a media mogul. We are all aware that the performance of the Minister of Finance of Babiš fundamentally affects the conditions for business and profits of the companies owned by Babiš. In his position, the Minister of Finance Babiš is likely to influence legislation and control performance, and in addition he has the opportunity to directly control the activity of competition through the Financial Analysis Service. This situation already negatively affects the reputation of the Czech Republic abroad. I do not even understand the support that some - I warn some - entrepreneurs express to Andrej Babiš. I really do not understand how any businessman in the same field as the Minister of Finance, namely agriculture, forestry, health care and others, can have Babiš fear that it is his business that will be controlled, restricted, or even liquidated as an uncomfortable competitor's business. šroub are already tightened in agriculture, starting to tighten in health care, where the Minister of Finance buys clinics and hospitals, with VZP and the Financial Analysis Unit in his back. Andrej Babiš is becoming a dangerous business monster, which will soon start threatening even the strongest players on the market. The time will come for entrepreneurs: either you will be with Babiš and accept his terms, or you will be against them, and then you will probably not be on the market. I certainly do not wish to do this to our entrepreneurs, and I believe that they will very quickly realise the risk for entrepreneurs to the entrepreneur and finance minister Andrej Babiš with all the tools that enable him to function. What about Andrej Babiš and public contracts? The participation of Minister Babiš in public procurement is not limited, even in the organizational components that are directly subordinate to the Minister of Finance. Once again, this is unprecedented in European democracies. State Administration of Material Reserves - there companies of Agrofert Group provide storage services, as well as supply of meat to state reserves, purchase of food for the army, for Prison Service, billions of contracts for Babiš companies Uniles and Wotan Forest from the Forests of the Czech Republic, Babišova Synthesia supplies raw materials Explosion, which is the 100% owner of the Ministry of Finance led again by Andrej Babiš. Babiš also decides on the President Administration of state material reserves, with which several companies from Agrofert Group trade. And the main business of Andrej Babiš? Babišův's agricultural company gets money for subsidized green oil and sows subsidized rape. It's gonna make Andrej Babiš subsidized biodiesel in his chemists. Andrej Babiš will pour the subsidised biodiesel into his agricultural machinery and replant the subsidised rape. The circle is closed. Those are Babišův's donation carousels. That's probably where Babišův's fondness for carousels is coming from. We have never witnessed such a link between political power and private enterprise to such a massive extent, and it is approaching the form of semi-monarchist regimes of some Middle East states. Ladies and gentlemen, let me mention just a few cases of this government, which would have recently meant its fall, or at least the demise of the ministers responsible. We have already talked about biofuels and talked about my previous speakers - five billion for the Agrofert group owned by the Minister of Finance. Let us not forget the good buyout of Andrej Babiš's land and the eightfold higher purchase price that Minister Andrej Babiš provided for the landowner. Let us remember the pressure on Czech television when the managers of Agrofert Andrej Babiš demanded that Czech TV reporters be held accountable and punished. Moreover, his press is attacking the financing of Czech Television. Let us remember the billion-dollar tender of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Where in a civilized Europe would it be possible for a billion-dollar forest tender of the Czech Republic to be won by the finance minister's company on forest work and timber sales? Remember the corruption at the Ministry of Regional Development, when the Director of the Department of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Chief Manager of the ANO movement Vladislav Koval was charged for demanding a bribe. We must not forget the case of the monitoring system again at the Ministry of Regional Development, when Minister Karla Šlechtová accused Deputy Minister of Finance Lukáš Wagenknecht of the professionalism and damage to the interests of the Czech Republic. Sweeped under the rug today. There are, of course, questions over a hundred million from Skanska, when its director was the current Minister of Transport, Mr Dan Ťok, where Swedish internal auditors found that at the time when he was the director of the Czech branch of Skansky, she brought CZK 100 million into the company with which Skanska cooperated. Biofuel and a five-billion-dollar little home for Andrej Babiš was already the last drop that forced us to vote on this government's mistrust. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot contradict the presence of a movement in the House. It's a voter's decision, and I fully respect it. What I fundamentally reject is an oligarch and a media tycoon as Minister of Finance. The finance minister's chair, and therefore, in an unprecedented conflict of interest, did not put Andrej Babiš's voters in the elections. Unfortunately, Andrej Babiš cast the votes of members of the People's and Social Democracy Party into the finance minister's seat. Therefore, KDU-ČSL and ČSSD are responsible for the brutal conflict of interest, for the state money that is now flowing into finance minister Andrej Babiš's companies. Please, colleagues from ČSSD and KDU-ČSL, think about it. It may be too late in two years. I will vote in favour of this government's distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u223	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next for the debate is Mr Vilímec and Mr Novotný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u224	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, the House has seen a similar vote of distrust to the government many times, only in the last two parliamentary periods the leftist opposition to the right-wing government has provoked them. I troufat even say that in the past two parliamentary periods, efforts have been to subject the government to this permanent test. Between 2006 and 2010, he recorded a balanced state of strength between the coalition and the opposition. As you know, back then, the opposition, the orange-red opposition, eventually celebrated a victory. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic did not celebrate the victory then, because the overthrow of the government came right in the middle of the Czech Presidency of the European Union and destroyed our reputation abroad. Social Democrats have also tried to overthrow the right-wing government in the last parliamentary term. I have always respected the right of opposition to call for a vote on government distrust. Even today's vote on distrust of the government of Bohuslav Sobotka and Andrej Babiš, despite estimated voting numbers, does not seem to be useless, not only because of the obvious conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš, but because I believe that the government - this socialist government - is running the country in many respects in a misguided and confused manner. [[20.30 hours]] And here are the six main reasons why I think: 1. After a year and a half, it's clear that the government doesn't have a social agenda. It turns out that the mix of typically left-wing parties, calm forces and movements that promote their business interests can't work well. Already in the discussion at the first reading of the draft budget for 2015, I noticed that the views of social democracy and YES 2011 are, for example, completely different in the tax field. And these differences are getting more and more obvious. Those aren't differences in small things. These are disputes and differences on very fundamental matters, on the number of VAT rates, on progressive taxation, on tax increases at all, etc. And that is always harmful to every economy. 2. What the government has managed to push through opinional disagreements often does not help people, but, on the contrary, makes their life prospects worse. In addition to the third VAT rate, social democracy in the government has also enforced the effective abolition of the second pillar of pension reform without saying where it wants to take pensions in the future. I consider the views of the so-called pension commission under the direction of Professor Potůček, who wants to set up pension contributions depending on the number of children, to be a complete fantasy-magory. 3. I think that Andrej Babiš has already definitively postponed his election mask and is really unprecedentedly using politics to support his own business. I am afraid, and here I will also follow the words of Mr Blažek, that these consequences, before the election, were massaged by the voters, could not even imagine. Perhaps some believed that Andrej Babiš, thanks to his billionaire estate, had no need to use politics for further wealth. But this idea was probably naive. To not completely wrong him, maybe he's doing it because he found that under the pressure of the Social Democrats, he couldn't make much difference anyway. His fight against some of the nonsense advocated by left-wing ministers is nothing more than a temporary pose. Whatever the case, for the Czech Republic and its reputation abroad, it is wrong for both parties to share their roles. And how easy it is to pass a billion-dollar advantage by law shows best Wednesday's vote on biofuels. 4. I do not want to judge the completely professional assumptions of Andrej Babiš to hold such a challenging position as the position of Minister of Finance. However, I must say that most of his appearance and his arguments do not convince me. You know that mostly the opposition's and sometimes coalition partners are not responding to questions, and if so, they will transfer everything to the usual topics - carousel fraud, the fight against these frauds, and some Croatian model that is inspired by registration cash registers. Today, again, Andrej Babiš did not hesitate to boast that since 1997 he has been the first of the ministers to ensure a reduction in the state debt of approximately CZK 20 billion in 2014. It should also state, however, that still in 2012, as at 31. 12. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. As of 31. 12. 2014 is only 11 billion. He should also explain from what so-called temporary foreign funds he paid more than CZK 50 billion in that last year in order to achieve an accountant debt reduction of CZK 20 billion. If Andrej Babiš understands finance at least a little, he must know that accounting operations to reduce reserves and, last year, the involvement of so-called foreign funds in Treasury accounts will not bring any real debt reduction. His repeated statements on debt reduction suggest that he either knows and bluffs in public, or he doesn't, and then it gets worse. 5. In this government, I resent the behaviour of some other ministers and their mutual disputes, which block the negotiation of the necessary laws. Disputes between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance, disputes between the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Finance, but also disputes between the Minister of Regional Development and the Minister of Finance, i.e. two ministers of the same coalition party. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš said today that he wanted to work, that basically the House held him up, that he wanted to adopt laws, but some laws are actually being passed between ministers like hot potatoes, and it is hard to say what the government's purpose is for them. I will give one particular example, the law on control in public administration. Minister Dienstbier sends him through the Legislative Council of the Government for revision. On the other hand, Andrej Babiš commends him and revils him The legislative board for blocking the law by reducing the number of unnecessary controls in the state administration. Such contradictions are particularly spicy when representatives of the government meet in one place, for example, recently at the Assembly of Cities and Municipalities, which I attended. When the mayors of Andrej Babiš asked about the reasons for introducing the third rate of value added tax, he said that he was not responsible for it because such nonsense came from social democracy. Is this really the government that knows what it's doing? 6. Sixth and last, I do not like that the government with the introduction of registration cash registers, virtually. e-booking sales is going to stifle the most active people in our company, businessmen and small entrepreneurs for nothing, because this obligation, which is intended to burden thousands of people in the Czech Republic, has not effectively increased total tax revenues in the so many times mentioned in Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Bohuslav Sobotka and Andrej Babiš had a year and a half to show that it could work well. Instead, he performs permanent fights among the ministers of each other, embodies in Andrej Babiš the greatest conflict of interest we can imagine, and promotes preconceived actions that are contrary to good governance. I understand that the opposition's position is upsetting the government, but I do not think that the government should regard today's vote as any unnecessary theater for it. On the contrary, I think that today's debate should be accepted as a well-intentioned challenge and an opportunity to try to defend itself and explain the uncertainties surrounding its work to us and the entire Czech public. Unless such an explanation - and so far it does not seem to me that it would - should end in the existing composition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u225	Another party to the debate is Mr Martin Novotný and Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u226	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our long discussion is slowly coming to an end, and according to the board, and I would like to perhaps remind you of one fundamental thesis that has already fallen at its beginning in the opening speech of the President of the Civil Democratic Party, Professor Fiala. Petr Fiala pointed out that today's debate will be largely devoted to the issue of conflict of interest, but that even more than this issue concerns a much deeper issue, and that is the question of the quality of democracy in our country. [[20.40 hours]] At first glance, it might seem that we are experiencing a standard conflict between the opposition and the coalition, a vote on trust to the government, which takes place many times in all parliamentary terms and which is part of some sort of rituals of parliamentary democracy. I believe that today's vote, even more than this standard conflict of the opposition and the coalition, is an attempt at a message from opposition Members towards coalition Members for traditional parliamentary parties and an attempt to get a message to realise that the responsibility of members of traditional political parties for the quality of democracy applies to all of us, both to those who sit in opposition and to those who are in control at the moment. The atmosphere in this country before the last parliamentary elections was such that many people wondered how to deal with the fact that in politics, whether in the left hand or in the right hand, sometimes behind-the-scenes players, who, in some cases, the public had the impression, influence politics and politics more than is healthy. It is important to admit that this reflection was correct, but on the basis of this evaluation, a large part of the Czech public has made a remarkable conclusion: We do not want Godfathers to control politics from afar, so one of them, one of the richest, will be placed directly in the leading position on the political scene. Public discourse in this country began to include ideas such as: we choose someone who has already earned money, who does not need to earn any more, will not need to earn any more or to steal any more. It is a remarkable idea, but this idea, like many of the same situations that have occurred in recent times in a time of crisis of parliamentary democracy, is a fatally flawed and fatally wrong idea. I would like to point out that, therefore, the issue of conflict of interest is not only the subject of our present-day negotiations, but some distorted interpretation was directly the subject of those elections which created this entire political representation. If you look at the servers for Mr Andrej Babiš's comments on the issue of conflict of interest, I would like to remind you of one of the shortcuts that Mr Andrej Babiš said in a situation where he nominated the YES movement for the government of today's transport minister. I'm not going to talk about this particular personnel nomination right now. At the time, it was discussed whether it was a problematic conflict of interest when someone who worked in some sort of environment in the business sector to direct it as a minister. At that time Mr. Andrej Babiš responded with shorthanded words: Goat gardener, this may not be a bad idea. I personally believe that the months and years following will show that the concept of a goat gardener is a bad idea. Some people, when they hear this wording of a goat gardener, think that the Czech language in this case merely points out that the goat does not understand gardening, so it should not drive gardening. But the origin of this formulation is completely different. In fact, the main problem is that if we make a goat a gardener, there's a great danger that he's gonna eat all the carrots and all the vegetables that's there because he's in charge of this appetite. I like Anglo-Saxon languages, and in Anglo-Saxon languages, if you try to translate the wording, make a goat gardener, the English has much more accurate terms. In such situations, she talks about not letting the fox out to watch over the henhouse or letting the cat out to clean up the pigeon house. It's not that a fox or a cat doesn't understand what's going on in a pigeon, it's that when it breaks in, it usually ends with all the animals that are in the dove being eaten, captured, and that the main goal of the cat or fox is to control the dove and stay all alone in it. And so I return to my opening thought, to the challenge to our democratic colleagues, who are not in opposition today, but who are now sitting in coalition benches or government. What have the empires shown us these past few months? The concept that the fox began to run the dove properly, or rather the concept that, in all areas of its operation, whether it is animals or to supervise their thinking through the media, is the whole dove gradually trying to control it? I'm convinced it's the other concept. Colleagues and colleagues, today's government coalition from those democratic parties. We want to warn you today and remind you that at this moment you are involved in letting the cat into the dove. If someone is likely to be a victim in the long run, if sooner or later you don't realize this danger to the cat's appetites, I assure you that you will be the first in line. And I think that in this regard either sooner or later, whether this is not the case today in the vote, the democratic political spectrum should realise that it has a common responsibility and that responsibility for the quality of democracy and political culture in this country is borne by both the opposition and the coalition, and that the concept that you are defending by releasing a cat into a dove at the moment is fatal to the whole democracy in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u227	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec will be next for the debate and Mr Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u228	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening or early evening. I would also like to make a few comments on this point today, which is called the Proposition of Distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic. Main topic of conflict of interest. I think that's quite an interesting subject. We, who operate at city hall, meet this quite often, but mostly those conflicts of interest are in a completely different order than those of the government of the Czech Republic. I confess that I have registered such an idea here from several coalition Members of the type: should we not allow him to run? I don't think that's what this is about. Of course, every citizen of the Czech Republic can run if he meets any prerequisites. I don't think it's about the candidacy. Actually, we shouldn't forbid anyone to run. But it's about how they deal with their mandate. By the way, I believe that there are more people in the Senate, for example, people who are in the sphere where they could significantly influence the administration, but I have not yet noticed that this is happening. We are meeting today to assess and discuss whether the Prime Minister, Minister Babiš, is, I would say, in a conflict of interest, in the way that his abuse is taking place. I would like to start by saying that we all knew from the beginning that he was in conflict of interest. There can't be any talk of that at all. That's just the reality we've all been counting on, and eventually the voters have handed out the cards the way they've been handed out, and I don't think anybody's gonna question that. Now we say, at least the opposition says that the conflict of interest is somewhere else long ago, that this institute is being abused and that it should not continue this way. I was quite surprised today by Mr. First Vice President's rhetoric when he said he was our product. I wonder if he meant it. Because if I remember, his name was first registered with the government of the late Prime Minister Gross, maybe it was before. I'm not a memorial to the House. While we were all stealing, someone was helping. Obviously. So what really bothers me is that there are no specific names here, that there are only signs that are being spoken here, as if the election campaign had continued, and I don't think that's a good thing. The criticism of the opposition has been expressed here, I would say, in two ways. Some criticize the government for being little leftist, others criticize it for being little right-wing. I confess that I belong to the other group, which is very logical, and I must say that the link between the left and the right always brings problems. The solution should be compromise, but I know from my experience that these compromises usually turn out very badly for the right. And I believe that, on the examples that have already been said here, we can demonstrate that here. [[20.50 hours]] I would actually apply to some of the things that have fallen here, because I believe that some of the things that have finally been commented on by the ANO movement representatives, that it is not well, so they managed to approve with their votes. The charges were cancelled, the second pillar was cancelled without compensation, three VAT rates. By the way, maybe I'd like to ask if anyone thinks that drugs are really cheaper than before the third rate. By the way, there is such a general myth that the government of the former coalition has raised VAT forever, but it is not true. As I recall, it was said quietly that it was only for three years, and we have already pointed out here that this year it would be worth considering lowering the rate at all and not doing the third rate at all. But unfortunately, a coalition agreement is a coalition agreement. I've noticed there's pressure on other taxes, sector taxes. This is nothing more than a tax increase. Then I hate a lot of business regulation. I say this quite frankly, if we disagree on the right part of the spectrum, in this probably yes, ban sales on holidays, ban smoking - popular topic in restaurants, various issues like registration cash registers, by the way interpreted so that we wanted them too, which was never true. I think that only weighs on data networks, and a lot of data will go to no good. Control reports of VAT, restrictions on flat-rate expenditure, etc. etc. What bothers me next is a certain regulation of society. I don't like the registers. I also say this with a degree of responsibility to the fact that some registers were created within a part of the right spectrum. I think there's a lot of those right-wing pots. By the way, there were investments. I had a comparison made in 2013 and 2015. Surprise is in order here. Just 102.5 billion in 2013, 75 billion in 2015. Well, I don't know what to think about it, either. My opinion is that linking, I would say, policies, three pillars of democracy with the media and with the business environment is very inappropriate for democracy, harmful and, I would say, fatal. Well, I won't keep you any longer, it's late at night, but I'd end up with a little humor. You know, I wouldn't want it to continue in that spirit - the Czech nation is a nation of jokers, jokers. I've heard such a beautiful, short-term forum of the Czech Republic lately. And translate it all you want. Financial control's coming to Agrofert. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u229	Another for the debate is Mr Petr Bendl and after him, so far last, Mr Lukáš Pleticha. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, my colleagues, my colleagues, I have been thinking for a long time whether or not to perform, because a number of things I wanted to draw attention to have already been said by my colleagues and previous speakers. But from today's discussion, I understand that not everyone understands what has actually happened in this House in the last few days or weeks. I've been through all the interpelations I've been giving to individual ministers. In many cases, they were interpelations that were things, I say, political opinion, and I understand that I may have criticized some of the things that every left-wing government, more certainty, more officials are promoting. For example, I blamed the Minister of Agriculture for recruiting hundreds of new officials. He claims that because otherwise they wouldn't be able to handle the situation. I'm saying they'd be able to handle it. But it's a word against word, it's something that probably divides the left from the right, where the right says fewer authorities, more responsibilities, less taxes, less officials. This is not the case with the Minister of Agriculture. I also pointed out some things about the law. I would probably be here - or I must point out here that most of the laws currently relating to the Agriculture Department have been passed by almost Members of Parliament as their parliamentary initiative, and that the government's government's proposals, by extension, have been put here by the Minister of Agriculture, so, after most, they were from the workshops of the ministers and governments of the previous ones. I'm sorry to say. For example, such a key food law. And I would remind you that almost all political parties were beating in their breasts and saying: Czech food, this is important, we want Czech food to be sold in the regions and in the Czech Republic in particular Czech food. And since we have a valid food law prepared by previous governments -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u231	My colleague, I am very sorry, but the noise level is exceeding the limit. So please, those who have arrived in the Chamber of Deputies to keep their voices down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Food Act does not yet have an implementing decree, so we do not know what Czech food is or is not. And I note that the law has been effective since 1 January this year. But these may be marginal things for some as well as the reality that may have been rightly criticized, sometimes less rightly, by those who rule today, and they said what the mess was like in IT competitions and the like. But at the last interview, Mr. Agriculture Minister and I talked about how many of these IT contracts were awarded out of hand. And that it's not just hundreds of thousands of crowns, but there are also contracts that were awarded directly, actually without a tender, for over 100 million crowns, and it's not just one. And I disagree with the argument that the Minister of Agriculture and Government is simply preparing and preparing a new selection procedure in a situation where we are in the middle of the government's governance. All of this could be said that it is normal for opposition Members to provoke or draw attention to the shortcomings that are in the government, and ministers sometimes try to make the situation better or not. We also discussed the subject, and I think that we are already getting into a situation that is ripe for a debate on the issue of distrust to the government, the conflicts of interest mentioned, because at the Ministry of Agriculture, when we were reminded of the laws that we are talking about here today, which we are saying, I think, convincingly and with appropriate evidence that they are being done completely for the benefit of one of the members of the government, the Ministry of Agriculture initially had a negative opinion for a number of reasons, in my opinion, but the Minister of Agriculture then changed his mind on the government. By the way, and that is not clear to me, and the Minister of Agriculture has not explained it so far, he represented the Minister of Finance at the time when he reported a conflict of interest and defended the Minister of Finance's position in a situation where the Ministry of Agriculture officially had in the materials that he did not agree with those conflict points in the law in principle. Then the Minister of Agriculture said he didn't read it, that he couldn't read everything. I think that if I represent a colleague in the government and I have a fundamental negative opinion of my department there, then he would read this material. What's going on? This is in the case of the said rape. Mr.Faltýnek, the chairman of the agricultural committee, was right when he said that more rape would not fit in the Czech Republic. However, the said laws on excise duty and biofuels say that more rape is needed because more, I say, biofuels will be needed. And when more biofuels are needed, it will be clear that whoever produces biofuels will have more work to do. If farmers are looking forward to becoming more rape because it is attractive for them, then it is necessary to tell farmers that there will be no more rape because it will not fit into the Czech Republic anymore. We, on the contrary, or the Czech Government, will enforce and enforce this law to bring it more. Because by creating an obligation to mix these biofuels into each litre, in simple terms, we will only cause more imports of everything that is incorporated into biofuels. [[21.00 hours]] That's the conflict of interest. If the Prime Minister here said that the consumption bill had already been brought by the governments of the past, then he should add that this is where the change is conflicting. The fact that the European Union does not force us to make this change is true. And we have asked the members of the government here several times to prove that the Czech Republic really has an obligation to exhaust its quota for biofuels by 2017. But no one has demonstrated such a thing, but it is more evident that everyone perceives the debate in the European Union on the topic of incorporation of bio-components into fuel, where the debate is ongoing or increasing evidence that the incorporation of bio-components in fuel is harmful. It's bad for nature, it's not in favour of growing food. And after all, we ourselves, I suppose, should want farmers to do more food and not non-food. But by this law, we say the opposite. We say: We want farmers to grow rape more than feed grain. At the moment when the European Union begins to hesitate about the amount of incorporation of the biofuels into the fuel, the Czech Government will come to the point that the quota needs to be exhausted quickly, because we would probably lose it. But farmers will not lose it, biofuels producers will lose it. [[The hall was completely filled and the Members were noisy.]] This conflict of interest, I think, is so clear that it's not possible to just stand by it. After all, my friends, the five billion that we've been talking about all day, there's no small money, and it could turn up somewhere else. They could appear, for example, in the area of social affairs, or they could appear in an area that would really support farmers. Maybe you remember our discussion here on green oil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u233	Colleagues, colleagues, I understand that this is a long day, and I understand that we are going to have a vote, so the House has come to an end. But please, let us create a dignified atmosphere for the last two speakers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u234	The theme of green oil, that means tax advantages for fuel for a certain part of the business public. We have been discussing it here, and some of the government's Members - the honor of these exceptions - have suggested that everyone receive this discount on fuel taxes. The Chamber of Deputies rejected this and said: No, only part of the farmers will have green oil, in no way the whole Czech Republic and all the citizens. It was already, in my opinion, a rough conflict of interest. Now we've extended it, or I'm going to say that we're going to make a deal for someone without the money really serving the Czech Republic. Some ministers here have spoken in defending this conflict of interest to bring 14,000 jobs. But neither of them has been able to answer where if they know that rape will only be imported and it will only increase the processing volume in the given companies that have been mentioned here today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u235	Thank you. And the final performer will be colleague Pleticha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u236	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, the previous speaker has played me beautifully. In fact, I would like to follow up on a series of speeches that, about two hours ago, were raised here on the subject of biofuels, a tax advantage. And I will allow myself to speak for self-government, and I would also like to mention some important facts that have not yet been raised here today or in the past days. This tax advantage does not apply only to Andrej Babiš, farmers and Agrofert, but in many areas of our country as well as to the budgets of municipalities of cities and regions. And to a significant extent, please. In many cities and regions, public passenger transport is operated by buses using biofuels. And the tax savings that are really are not negligible. For example, in the case of our small Transport Company, the cities of Jablonec and Liberec make it 3.5 miles. crowns a year. This is a significant amount for our budgets of self-government. But for the Ústecký and Středočeský Region, that's 90 miles. And another 350 buses of public transport are on the streets of Prague every day. Buses that use biofuels. Also, biofuels are also used in regional passenger transport on the Czech Railways. But I must lead you out of error. This tax advantage is not granted by any carrier, whether it is an urban enterprise or a private operator. There is a system of compensation for a proven loss, and all these savings are reflected in the budgets of self-government and ultimately the price of fare, which must then be paid by all passengers, whether school, productive or retirement. So, to keep my mouth shut, I believe that this advantage makes sense, and this must also be considered here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u237	Thank you, colleague. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I have here a factual remark from President Kalousek. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u238	Thank you for the floor. Just a very brief response to Mr Pleticha's comment. The budgets of self-governments that can be reached are part of public budgets, and it's all balance sheets. This means, if the budgets of the authorities are burdened with higher costs, there is no problem that the state budget, strengthened by the nine billion it wants to devote to babiš to devote them to the regions and local authorities to transport services. It will come out zero from zero and the market will cease to be crooked. What Mr Pleticha has said is merely proof of the absurd conclusions that market distortions are taking place in favour of a lobbyist group represented by the Minister of Finance and the owner of Agrofert. Within the single balance, because public budgets are a single balance, this, of course, can be compensated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u239	I will ask if there are any more applications for the debate. This is not the case, and I am ending the debate. That way, there is already and only a vote ahead of us. I will remind you that under § 85 para. 1 and 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall be put to the Government on behalf of a motion for distrust. In order to adopt a resolution declaring distrust to the Government, the approval of an absolute majority of all Members is needed. I therefore ask the designated verifiers, Mrs Pecková and Mrs Semelová, to take the position at the rapporteur's table and first to draw the name of the Member from whom the vote will take place in alphabetical order. I assume that the ticket check has been carried out, and I will now draw for the Member or Members. I drew myself last time, so I hope things turn out differently today. We will begin with Mr. Jiří Zemánek. [[Laughter in ČSSD benches.]] Please calm down and I remind you that according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be formulated by the Member 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal'. If he abstains, he will say, "I am abstaining." [[21.10 hours]] Any other speech by a Member would be regarded as a delay in voting. I ask that each of the Members who are called upon say their position loudly enough so that I may then repeat them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies is expressing distrust to the Government'. Now I will call you, and I beg you to speak. Initiating vote. Member Jiří Zemánek. Against the proposal. Mr. Václav Zemek. Against the proposal. Member Jiří Zlatuška. Against the proposal. Mr. Marek Ženíšek. Proposition. Member Petr Adam. Excuse me. Mr. Vojtěch Adam. He's stalling. Member Ivan Adamec. Proposition. Mr. František Adámek. Against the proposal. Mrs Markéta Adamová. Proposition. Member Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor. Proposition. Mr Pavel Antonín. Against the proposal. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. He's stalling. Mr. Andrej Babiš. Against the proposal. Member Miloš Babiš. Against the proposal. Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Against the proposal. Member Jan Bartošek. Excuse me. Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová. He's stalling. Member Jiří Běhounek. Against the proposal. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Against the proposal. Mr. Marek Benda. Proposition. Member Petr Bendl. Proposition. Mr. Ondřej Benešík. Against the proposal. Mrs Marie Benešová. Against the proposal. Mrs Martina Berdychová. Against the proposal. Member Stanislav Berkovec. Against the proposal. Mr. Mr. Zdeněk Bezecný. Proposition. Member Adolf Beznoska. Proposition. Mr. Jan Birke. Against the proposal. Mr Pavel Blažek. Proposition. Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová. Against the proposal. Mr. Robin Böhnisch. Against the proposal. Member Jaroslav Borka. He's stalling. Member Richard Brabec. Against the proposal. Member Milan Brázdil. Excuse me. Mr. Marek Černoch. Proposition. Mrs Jana Černochová. Proposition. Mr. Alexander Černý. He's stalling. Member Karel Černý. Against the proposal. Mr Pavel Čihák. Against the proposal. Mr René Číp. He's stalling. Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Against the proposal. Member Jiří Dolejš. He's stalling. Member Richard Dolejš. Against the proposal. Member Jaroslav Faltýnek. Against the proposal. Mr. Jan Farský. Proposition. Member Petr Fiala. Proposition. Mr Radim Fiala. Not present. Member Karel Fiedler. Proposition. Member Matěj Fichtner. Against the proposal. Mr. Vojtěch Filip. He's stalling. Mrs Jana Fischerová. Proposition. Member Jaroslav Foldyna. Against the proposal. Member Ivan Gabal. Against the proposal. Member Vlastimil Gabrhel. Against the proposal. Member Petr Gazdík. Proposition. Madame Pavla Golasowská. Against the proposal. Member Miroslav Grebeníček. He's stalling. Member Stanislav Grospič. He's stalling. Mr. Josef Hájek. Against the proposal. Mrs Milada Halíková. He's stalling. Mr Jan Hamáček is against the proposal. Against the proposal. [[Fun.]] Mr Pavel Havíř. Against the proposal. Mrs Olga Havlová. Proposition. Mr. Leoš Heger. Proposition. Mr. Ambassador Daniel Herman. Against the proposal. Mrs Jana Hnyková. Proposition. Member Jiří Holeček. Against the proposal. Mr Radim Holeček, Mr Radim Holeček. Proposition. Member Jaroslav Holík. Not present. Mr Pavel Holík. Against the proposal. Mr. Václav Horáček. Proposition. Mr. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Against the proposal. Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková. He's stalling. Member Stanislav Huml. Against the proposal. Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Proposition. Mr. Bohuslav Chalupa. Against the proposal. Member Milan Chovanec. Against the proposal. Member Jan Chvojka. Against the proposal. Mr Igor Jakubčík. Against the proposal. Member Vítězslav Jandák. Against the proposal. Member Miloslav Janulík. Against the proposal. Mrs Jaroslava Jermanová. Against the proposal. Mr. Jiří Junek. Against the proposal. Mr. Marian Jurečka. Against the proposal. [[21.20 hours]] Member David Kádner. He's excused. Mrs Zuzana Kailová. Against the proposal. Member Miroslav Kalousek. Proposition. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Against the proposal. Mr Simeon Karamazov. Proposition. Member David Kasal. Against the proposal. Mr Jan Klán. He's stalling. Member Jaroslav Klaška. Against the proposal. Mr. MP Václav Klučka. He's excused. Mr Martin Kolovratník. Against the proposal. Member Martin Komárek. Against the proposal. Member Vladimír Koníček. He's stalling. Ambassador Daniel Korte. Proposition. Member Petr Kořenek. Against the proposal. Member Jiří Koskuba. Against the proposal. Mr Rom Kostřica. Proposition. Mr. Josef Kott. Against the proposal. Member Jiří Koubek. Proposition. Mr Pavel Kováčik. He's stalling. Mrs Věra Kovářová. Proposition. Member Jaroslav Krákora. Against the proposal. Mr. Roman Kubíček. Against the proposal. Member Michal Kučera. Proposition. Member Petr Kudela. Against the proposal. Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Proposition. Mr Martin Lank. Proposition. Mr. František Laudát. Proposition. Member Jaroslav Lobkowicz. Proposition. Mrs Jana Lorencová. Against the proposal. Member Leo Luzar. He's stalling. Member Stanislav Mackovík. He's stalling. Mrs. Soňa Marková. He's stalling. Mrs. Květa Matušovská. He's stalling. Mrs Radka Maxová. Against the proposal. Member Jiří Mihola. Against the proposal. Member Jan Mládek. Against the proposal. Member Josef Nekl. He's stalling. Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Proposition. Mrs Alena Nohavová. He's stalling. Mrs Nina Nováková. Proposition. Mr. Josef Novotný. Against the proposal. Mr Martin Novotný. Proposition. Mr Igor Nykl. Against the proposal. Mrs Pavlína Nytrová. Against the proposal. Mr Tomio Okamura. He's absent. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. Against the proposal. Member Zdeněk Ondráček. He's stalling. Member Miroslav Opálka. He's stalling. Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Against the proposal. Mr. Herbert Pavera. Proposition. Mrs Gabriela Pecková. Proposition. Mrs Marie Pěnčíková. He's stalling. Mr. Jiří Petrů. Against the proposal. Member Stanislav Pfléger. Against the proposal. Member Ivan Pilný. Against the proposal. Member Lukáš Pleticha. Against the proposal. Mr Martin Plíšek. Proposition. Mr Pavel Ploc. Against the proposal. Mr Pavel Plzák. Against the proposal. Mr. Ivo Pojezný. He's stalling. Member Karel Pražák. Not present. Mr. Roman Procházka. Against the proposal. Mrs Anna Putnová. Proposition. Member Karel Rais. Against the proposal. Member Adam Rykala. Against the proposal. Mr Antonín Seďa. Against the proposal. Mr. Jan Sedláček. Against the proposal. Mr Martin Sedlář. Against the proposal. Mrs Marta Semelová. He's stalling. Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Against the proposal. Member Karel Schwarzenberg. Proposition. Member Jiří Skalický. Proposition. Mr. Roman Sklenák. Against the proposal. Mr. Václav Snopek. He's stalling. Mr Bohuslav Sobotka. Against the proposal. Member Zdeněk Soukup. Against the proposal. Member Zbyněk Stanjura. Proposition. Mrs Miroslava Strnadlová. She's excused. Mr Martin Stropnický. Against the proposal. Mr. Ambassador Štěpán Stupčuk. Against the proposal. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Proposition. Member Zdeněk Syblík. Against the proposal. Mrs Zuzana Šánová. Against the proposal. Member Milan Šarapatka. He's not present. Mr. Josef Šenfeld. He's stalling. Member Karel Šidlo. He's stalling. Mr Ladislav Šincl. Against the proposal. Mr Pavel Šrámek. Against the proposal. Member Jiří Štětina. He's not present. Mr. Jeroným Tejc. Against the proposal. Member Lubomír Toufar. Against the proposal. [[21.30 hours]] Mr. Karel Tureček. He's not present. Member Josef Uhlík. Against the proposal. Member Milan Urban. Against the proposal. Mrs Dana Váhalová. Against the proposal. Mr. František Vácha. Proposition. Mr. Jiří Valenta. He's stalling. Mrs Helena Válková. Against the proposal. Mr. Roman Váňa. Against the proposal. Mr Ladislav Velebný. Against the proposal. Member Vladislav Vilímec. Proposition. Mr Pavel Volčík. Against the proposal. Mr. Jan Volný. Against the proposal. Mr. Radek Vondráček. Against the proposal. Mr. Josef Vondrášek. He's excused. Madame Miloslava Vostrá. He's stalling. Mr. Václav Votava. Against the proposal. Member Josef Vozdecký. Against the proposal. Mr. Vlastimil Vozka. Against the proposal. Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Against the proposal. Mrs Markéta Wernerová. Against the proposal. Mr. Josef Zahradníček. He's stalling. Member Jan zahradník. Proposition. Member Lubomír Zaorálek. He's excused. Member Jaroslav Zavadil. Against the proposal. Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. She's excused. That concludes the vote. I will ask whether all Members have been read, or if there are any doubts about the course of the vote. It's not like that. I'll ask the verifiers. 15 minutes. In that case, I'll meet you at 9:47 p.m., and until then, I'm interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u240	Colleagues, colleagues, please take your seats in the hall. I ask Mrs Pecková, who is one of the verifiers, to introduce us to the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I would like to introduce you to the result of the vote. It came as follows: 47 Members spoke against the proposal, 105 Members and 32 Members abstained.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-001-001.u242	Thank you and I note that the Chamber of Deputies has not adopted the motion for a resolution, and I am ending this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
