ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government. Commencing session 35 of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. Have a good night. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Section 51 (4) of our Rules of Procedure at the request of 58 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on 21 October of this year, i.e. on time also under the Rules of Procedure Act. I'm asking you all to sign up with ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers apply as they were said during this day at the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, or report any other changes to me if anyone has a replacement card. So are the apologies from today. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Jiří Dolejš and a Member of Kristýna Zelienková. Someone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. I also note that Mr Okleštěk has a replacement card 61. We can vote on the verifiers of today's meeting, Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr Kristýna Zelienková. I've started voting order number one. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1. 117 for 110 present, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have appointed Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr Kristýna Zelienková as the verifiers for the 35th meeting of the House. I confirm that the apologies for today's meeting are consistent with the apology given at the 33rd meeting. We will proceed to the appointment of the 35th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. I would remind you that under Section 54, paragraph 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act, only the programme mentioned in the application will be decided. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will vote on the whole proposal for the 35th meeting, as presented in writing. I've started a number two vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 2. Of the 123 present for 106, versus 7. The motion was accepted. So we can start our meeting. Before that, I will state my apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Jitka Chalánková from 18.30 for personal reasons, as well as my apologies to Mrs Gabriela Pecková between 17.12.12 until the end of today's meeting. Before the beginning of the first item of the meeting, I have two applications with priority rights, namely Mr Radek Vondráček and the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. We mít 18.39. To do what we have planned, I would suggest, on behalf of two ČSSD and YES MPs, that we vote on the fact that the Chamber of Deputies can negotiate and vote on drafts of laws and amendments after the 19th and, for sure, after the 21st hour. Just in case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-000-000.u3	Okay. This is a procedural proposal that we will vote without debate. I've started a number three vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 3. Of the 133 Members present for 92, against 19. The motion was accepted. Okay, the House decided we'd still be voting after 7:00 on the law. But now, with priority rights, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now approved an extraordinary meeting with an extremely rich programme, but we all know that the only reason an extraordinary meeting was approved is the first point, these are lotteries and the Income Tax Act, a point to be discussed at a proper meeting on Friday. And he could and should have been discussed and we all expected that he would be discussed at a proper meeting on Friday if the Finance Minister were able to work as expected from the Finance Minister. In other words, after the bill was passed in the government, as the petitioner should ensure that any of his officials or he himself was able to transport this material from the Strakova academy to the Chamber of Deputies between 14 and 18 on Monday, which is a seven-minute sharp walk and which would certainly be managed by a disabled employee of the Ministry of Finance. No such thing happened because the Finance Minister is simply not used to working professionally, which is why the proposal was late. And since he was late, it was not possible, because of the rules still in force, to include the proposal for Friday at a proper meeting, where it would certainly be discussed. And it was necessary for an extraordinary meeting to be convened on the proposal of the members of the ANO movement, where this item will be discussed. I consider it necessary for us to state that the only reason for calling this extraordinary meeting is unprofessional, lax and messy work of the Minister of Finance. Okay, that can happen. Sometimes everyone makes an administrative mistake. But imagine the situation that you're gonna make a mistake, you're gonna make a carambole, you have to tell the entire House, 199 colleagues, "I'm sorry, I messed up, I messed up, I've neglected something, I'm gonna have to ask you to meet for an emergency meeting, but please note that I'm not gonna be there, because I'm free with my kids." I can't imagine a bigger chuff. Chucks a term you know, I won't explain it. I can't imagine a bigger chuff, and I'd be interested in the reaction of Mr. Babiš, if any of his subordinates spoiled something, he would come to him and say, "Mr. Factory, I messed it up, I've neglected it, and I have to ask you to fix it with a bunch of other employees, my mistake, but take note that I won't be there because he's on a long-term vacation." Imagine that! That's exactly what Minister Babiš is doing with us. Try to imagine, try to answer for yourself what the factoryman Babiš would say to his subordinate, who would do as he did now to us and the Chamber of Deputies. Maybe the subordinate would have survived, but I'm sure he wouldn't be in his office and his job the next morning. And I'm sure Mr. Factory would do well. While we're saying yes now, that's right, Mr. Factor ruined it - sorry, the Minister ruined it, we all have to meet for him. We understand he's not here because he's on leave, and we won't blame him. For those members of the YES who will write touching messages on their Facebook page that he has taken a proper vacation as he did many times in the past, when he was supposed to be here and was not, because, as some Members have written, he has taken a proper vacation, I would like to remind you that the term proper vacation is a term from the Labour Code. And that none of us, i.e. those who enjoy the rights and obligations of constitutional officials, have proper leave and are entitled to take proper leave. We can apologize sometimes, Prime Minister to us as ministers, since we're ministers, he can declare a holiday. We, as the Chamber of Deputies, can declare a holiday, but we cannot take a proper vacation when it comes to us. We really don't have that right. They don't even have one. Basically, only Mr. Finance Minister Babiš has it. No one else in this country has it. So there's no such thing as a proper vacation, and it doesn't exist at all when at an emergency meeting that was called just because of my incompetence, I'm absent because I have something I call a proper vacation, even if the term doesn't exist for me. Unbelievable! I've been in the galleys - some of my colleagues from YES, because I haven't kept my anger a secret for days and hours, so some of my colleagues from the ANO movement said to me: Mr Kalousek, that's not correct from you, he's got two months paid family vacation with the kids, he couldn't have known that Tuesday would be an emergency meeting, and you shouldn't go into it like that. Well, the worse, the better. That's almost incredible, this argument. I understand that Minister Babiš, just like any of us, had no idea that there would be an extraordinary gambling meeting today, but the First Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the ANO Babiš movement knew that tomorrow was October 28. Ono, you know, October 28th is the most important holiday of the Czech Republic associated with the order day, when we commemorate the emergence of a separate Czechoslovak state. The Czech Republic celebrates it as its most important state holiday. The Slovak Republic does not celebrate at all. It is a legitimate approach between the two countries to that date. But I am convinced that when someone is the top representative of the Czech state, the date on October 28th on the one hand and the long-term paid vacation on the other are two concepts between which there is an absolutely unforgivable and unforgivable contradiction. This is exactly the same as if the bishop of any Christian church took time off for Easter and went abroad for heat. Of course, if he did, he would embezzle his ministry, because Easter is the most important Christian holiday, and by refusing to celebrate with his believers, he would have gone to the heat, basically telling them that he didn't give a damn about them and that he refused to share the feast with them, to serve. They'd be offended by their feelings for the holiday and their need to share the holiday with them. [[18.50 hours]] The first Deputy Prime Minister, who - well, maybe he didn't have to know that there would be an extraordinary meeting, didn't have to be if he was acting professionally. But he had to know it was October 28th, and he took a long-term vacation. And he said, all of you who identify with this state, who have some emotions, who honor the traditions of this holiday, who want to celebrate the public holidays, I don't want to share it with you. Why should I? I don't identify with this state, I don't honor its traditions. What should I celebrate? I see this state as a milk cow for my business needs. And since on October 28th we will all pay tribute to that date, the creation of a separate Czechoslovak state, and therefore it will be free and therefore will not be free to approve subsidies and tax concessions for Agrofert, so here I am useless. What would I be doing here? Then I can be in Dubai. This is the position of the First Deputy Prime Minister. I have two questions, colleagues from the ANO movement. First of all, I'm sorry, I'm gonna be a little personal, but can you ever be ashamed of him? When do you have to suffer as his subordinates? That's one question. And the second question. The minister celebrates when he no longer wants to celebrate the Czech national holidays - because he was nowhere to be seen on the day of Czech statehood. If he doesn't want to celebrate the public holidays of the Czech Republic anymore, does he at least celebrate a holiday of the Slovak Republic? Or is he really celebrating the anniversary of petrimex theft, Lovochemie and Kostelec sausages? Does he identify with something called patriotism? Does he identify with something called state values? First Deputy Prime Minister? Aren't you really ashamed? You're ashamed, that's why you're leaving. I see, I'd be ashamed, too, and I'd leave. [[A mild laugh in the hall.]] Of course, the TOP 09 Members' club could have prevented this extraordinary meeting. He didn't do it because we don't want to be falsely accused of recording gambling. We merely sadly note that the first Vice-President of the Government of Babiš failed to fulfil his duties and therefore this extraordinary meeting had to be convened. That although this extraordinary meeting was convened, the first Vice-President of the Government of Babiš did not attend it because he prefers to be in Dubai, and that the first Vice-President of the Government of Babiš despises the traditions of the Czech state and its holidays because he will be in Dubai. It's quite alarming, disgusting. And what I'm most sorry for is not Mr. Babiš's morale. He doesn't care. He'll cash in on his own. What I'm sorry for is your minimal demands on your own self-esteem, colleagues from the ANO movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-000-000.u5	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. It is a good thing we are not in the position of subordinates and superiors because we are in the democratic Parliament of the Czech Republic. We can proceed to the point
