ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 270/ - Second Reading We discussed this proposal at the second reading at the 26th meeting, when after the general debate we returned the proposal to the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee for a new discussion. The Committee has renegotiated this proposal and the resolution has been delivered to you as press 270/5. I'll ask the Minister of Health if he wishes to speak. He wishes to get out. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give a very brief discussion of the draft amendment to the Act on the Protection of Public Health and its related laws. This proposal has already been discussed twice in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and in total four times in the Committee on Health. As I have mentioned several times, the proposal represents a comprehensive revision of the law in relation to changes in the legal order in recent years, as well as certain requirements of application practice. One of the main objectives of the amendment is to bring the Act on the Protection of Public Health into line with the Administrative Code and other legislation. Another intention of the proposal is to reduce the bureaucratic burden on people, particularly in the area of health protection at work. It further strengthens the role of public health authorities in the health promotion section and also complements the new tasks of the regions in this area. The proposal raised a large number of debates, but the subject of which was mostly topics which were not at the heart of the amendments proposed here. I am referring to the issue of vaccination and the protection of health against noise, where both of these issues concern the proposal only marginally in order to clarify the legislation, not to change it conceptually. I certainly cannot support the amendments tabled so far to significantly change the legislation on vaccination. Again, I would like to stress that the provisions of the Act on vaccination and imposed fines in this area have been repeatedly subjected to a constitutionality test by the Constitutional Court and the proposals for repealing the relevant provisions of the Act have been rejected by it. The Constitutional Court stated that compulsory vaccination against infectious diseases is clearly a measure in a democratic society necessary to protect public safety, health, the rights and freedoms of others. On this issue, I would also like to add that the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies has asked the Ministry of Health to open a wide discussion on vaccination issues in all aspects. To this end, I have already set up a working committee consisting of representatives of the Ministry, Members of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, the State Institute for Drug Control, representatives of professional companies, representatives of the public and representatives of the National Immunisation Commission. [[14.40 hours]] As regards noise and vibration protection, the Health Committee adopted a resolution proposing to make certain adjustments. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I can support these changes for the petitioner. I am also pleased that, during the time this proposal was renegotiated, a fundamental consensus has been established between the Ministry of Health as a petitioner, the Ministry of Transport and the Chamber of Commerce, and this proposal is presented in the framework of Mr -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u3	Colleagues and colleagues, I ask for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u4	- Mr Birke. I really only have one last sentence, because I see that at the beginning the patience of the honourable House is exhausted. That's why I believe that The Chamber of Deputies will identify with the law proposed in this way and with the consensual amendments and will allow for the release of the bill amendment to the third reading, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur of this press, who is Mr Kasal, to inform us of the committee's discussion of the proposal and, if necessary, to justify the amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador and rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would just briefly summarize the work of the Health Committee, which has repeatedly addressed these issues at its meetings and in its last resolution No. For the last time, 75 of the Health Committee discussed not only the entire law, but also all amendments. And otherwise, I would refer to the opening words of the Minister, who summed up all the negotiations as they were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. And before the debate is opened, Vice-President Gazdík is given priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I do not understand this bill very much. If vaccination works, why are we persecuting children who are not vaccinated in this way, often for obvious reasons? As a parent, I'm a fan of vaccination, my four children are all vaccinated. However, I know a number of children from my neighborhood who had an allergic reaction to the first vaccination. After this allergic reaction, if they are not vaccinated, so can not go with scouts on a trip, can not go on a school trip, can not take them to kindergarten. Yes, the Minister will argue that the fine here is reduced from three million to a million, which is actually very, very distinctive for these facilities, she certainly has the million to pay for it. So where's the vaccination? If children who are vaccinated and vaccinated work, why can't they be together with children who have had an allergic reaction and are not vaccinated? They're vaccinated and the vaccinations work, they're immune. I don't understand, and I'd like to ask the Minister for an explanation. I kind of think it's more of a pharmaceutical lobby pressure than some real problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u9	I am now opening a general debate. I have an application from Mrs Nováková, Mr Vácha will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u10	Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago, the Minister of Health, doktor Leoš Heger, began to do ant work. This was because he wanted to convince citizens that the quality of life, of course, significantly affects their health, but that we too have a significant impact on our own health. We are currently trying to continue this ant work in connection with the debate on the amendment to the Public Health Act, and whether it will be ant, i.e. there may be a goal, or Sisyphusian, i.e. it will be completely unnecessary, we will decide that in the next hours and probably days. Ladies and gentlemen, protecting ourselves is natural, and yet many do it very, very little. Surprisingly, we can protect our loved ones a little better. We're a little more motivated there for some reason. And parents are always motivated to protect their children. But if we say we're supposed to protect society, that's a very abstract concept. And we have the task of convincing all citizens, as many citizens as possible, that protecting ourselves means protecting society, virtually. to protect society means itself at the same time. Of course, I always have to know what risk I'm taking. The most effective, most efficient, but at the same time the most demanding way is to convince that preventive protection makes sense. Unfortunately, this isn't working out yet. Motivation cannot be built on discrediting, underestimating, for example. NGOs - probably many of us know what they are. Motivation cannot be built on personal discreditation of academic world personalities. Then I don't know how anyone can be a professor of science when we're willing to make a fool out of him and even perscussion him. We're failing somehow. Inoculation from the beginning, when a wise person was scraping up cows and using it, the blisters, when they had smallpox, etc., so the vaccination goes through and must go through great development. It's about what any layman is capable of understanding. You don't have to be a doctor for that. The point is that we will still evaluate the number and type of diseases against which vaccination is necessary. And ladies and gentlemen, we are now in a situation in relation to a huge migration, that this will be a great task. We must continue to improve quality. Laik imagines it below these three angles of vision - vaccination should be effective, vaccination should be safe at the same time, and in the case of children, especially in the case of children, it must be a minimalized burden for the organism. We will not achieve this if we are not open to capture and to honestly capturing any possible side effects. If the mind of all the institutions in charge of protecting the health of citizens is not open to this, then the process simply cannot go well. Again, I don't have to be any expert on that - a doctor. And it doesn't exist, I'm sorry, but there can't be an answer in pediatric ambulances - you can't have this after vaccination. This answer cannot exist. She should get out of the repertoire. But a conversation can always follow. Now I would like to turn to parents and legal representatives of children, respectively. More like their part in the complicated process. If you want to make the right choice, you have to decide freely and responsibly. Plus, we want these parents to think about each other at the same time. Here I would like to point out very strongly that I consider it really vicious and vicious to say that irresponsible parents who hesitate want to discuss the vaccination of children, that these irresponsible parents are taking advantage of general inoculations, and they actually want to put their unscathed child between those vaccinated and there will be protection. That's just nonsense. Children do not only move in children's collectives. So this suspicion, I think it's completely pointless. [[14.50 hours]] The duty to vaccinate, ladies and gentlemen, cannot really be a blind obedience. This is not something that a responsible and loving parent can expect. Even in many other areas of their decision-making, you simply cannot ask your parents for blind obedience. But what you can always ask them to do is make decisions based on discussion, conversation. The conversation - I've said it here before - must take place in mutual respect and mutual respect. The duty to inoculate against which we are not against must be to believe that this is the right thing to do. And where did we get to, ladies and gentlemen, after the several months of discussion? Apart from the fact that a great effort has been made to discredit everyone who may have thought otherwise than the official institutions think. Has trust in the doctor increased and especially in the whole system? Let me ask you a question. In the discussions it was said that compulsory vaccination - for the sake of completeness, vaccination of children in particular - was hidden under the term regular vaccination in the Public Health Protection Act. Thus, the discussions have been heard several times by doctors: it is possible to do vaccination according to the individual calendar, taking into account the condition of the child and other circumstances. What the doctors don't like very much, and I discussed it with them, is the possibility of asking parents to consider, or some kind of request from a legal representative, to ask for an individual vaccination plan. Well, I'm asking, if you don't mind me asking - why? At present, the parent does not give written consent, only gives oral consent to the vaccination. And when some have taken the liberty of noticing that there has been a small sentence, a relatively short sentence in another law, that the list of performances that may not be with the consent of the patient also includes performances, acts that are contained in the Public Health Act, we cannot, in turn, consider as fools and God knows what people, those who have noticed that this may open up the way, that not only does not need written consent, oral consent is sufficient, and that perhaps the consent will not be needed by the doctor at all. I don't want to discredit a doctor at all. The way I talked to them, they want to do it, the whole process, what's best. However, they are complaining of a great administrative burden. So when I was talking to them about it so much promoted by us, and not just the TOP 09 party, but others, some model of an individual vaccination plan, they said it's actually administratively kind of a burden. However, there can never be a burdened conversation, explanation, persuasion. That doctor, I believe, most doctors have the ability to talk to a legal representative and a parent who wants to pursue an individual vaccination plan, a doctor has the ability to convince his parents that he's actually on the same boat when he's having a quiet conversation with him. That they're both in the same boat and they both want to protect the baby. The fact that it is currently in the Public Health Act that it is in any official way - I stress - is not even in the decree. Doctors say an individual vaccination plan is possible, but it's not in the decree. There is only a detailed description, which is known so far in the decree only detailed regular vaccinations. Ladies and gentlemen, for example, every client in the senior home today has an individual care plan! Nobody asks ill-paid social workers in social care homes, senior homes, homes where they care for children and adults mentally or otherwise disabled, no one asks if they are burdened that they have an individual vaccination plan every week. I therefore ask why there is such a big problem that the individual vaccination plan should be enshrined in the law, and that it will be amended in more detail in the decree, simply in the implementing regulation. And the second thing is that the doctors, and that's not their fault at all when we were discussing it, they don't actually realize that if, according to their best conscience and truth, they don't give their parents the paper that the child has been vaccinated, then the child really is discriminated against by the fact that it can't be admitted to a child care facility. And if there was a chance that they could provide confirmation that an individual vaccination plan had been drawn up after the doctor's consent, and this certificate was actually equally valid, so the child would not be discriminated against, I think that not only would the number of satisfied parents multiply greatly, but more importantly, the parents' confidence in our health protection system would increase. The individual vaccination plan and non-discrimination of children who are not yet vaccinated is what I personally care about, although in a detailed debate I will sign up for further amendments. Thank you for your attention and thank you for, perhaps, trying not to make this discussion truly Sisyphusical and making an ant effort to strengthen confidence in our health care system does not cause a complete decline in confidence. I believe that parents will continue to think about their children because each of these parents has one or two. And no statistics can drug him or convince him. The only thing that can convince him is that the state will say, "Yes! I want you to do it, I want you to do it by law, but I'm also responsible. This is another part of the amendment. Next, ladies and gentlemen, I will not tire of you and thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u11	Before I give the floor to Mr Vách, Mrs Langšádlová apologizes today between 18.00 and 23.45. [[with a smile]] I think the MP knows something more than we do. Then Mr Beznoska apologizes from 6:30 p.m. for work reasons. Vice-President Bartošek apologises from 5:00 p.m. and apologizes to Mrs Dobešová from 14:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Well, that was an apology, and Mr. Vácha has the floor. Mr. Mr. Štětina will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would support the words of my colleague Nováková, and I would like to tell you that I have included in the system an amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. In fact, the amendment is very simple, it merely introduces the term of an individual vaccination plan and determines in what justified cases it can be used. At a meeting of the Health Committee, which was -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u13	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I ask those on the left to refrain from discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u14	Mr President, thank you. So the health committee, which was on 19 March, said more than once that individual vaccination plans already exist in health care, and even Minister Němeček said that individual procedures are already possible in health indications and pediatricians are doing them. However, in the present Act No. 258/2000 Sb. there is no such wording in the proposed amendment. That is why I am coming up with this amendment, where it is simply up to § 45 per paragraph. 2 an additional paragraph shall be inserted to define in some way an individual vaccination plan. [[15.00 hours]] At present, although some pediatricians or some doctors are resorting to an individual vaccination plan, they are threatened with a fine of three million, respectively, by the fact that it is not enshrined in the law. one million if the resolution of the Health Committee number 75 was adopted. The only exception to individual plans are identified contraindications or proven immunity to infection. So doctors who inoculate according to an individual vaccination plan risk granting a considerable fine if they don't fit the vaccination in the decree of the set time span, which is, I suspect, 18 months. The health problems of children are so diverse that it is unlikely in the possibilities of the law or decree to establish an optimal vaccination procedure for all possible complications, and it would be appropriate to allow doctors to decide on individual vaccination procedures in justified cases, as legal options, i.e. by legal option, I mean that it will be established by law, without the risk of sanctioning non-compliance with the vaccination calendar given by the Ministry of Health decree. So I will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate, it is press 2251. [[House document]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Štětina, Mr. Andrle will be ready. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, Mr. Holík? In fact. Okay. Then I'll give you the deed after your performance, Mr. Ambassador. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u16	Hello. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, Minister, dear colleagues, I am standing here for the second or third time, I think. I am watching very closely the campaign that is taking place not only in our country but also in other countries: Poland, Germany, France and even Vietnam, where we have now been to negotiations with the inspection committee. I must first say that I fully agree with the Minister's position and with the rapporteur's position. It's completely real and right. Who suffers the consequences of epidemics? Is it the parents or the activists? It's always carried by the state administration, i.e. The Ministry of Finance, which is being criticized, has to pay for it, of course, by the state administration. So that's one. Secondly, the argument that this law is being prepared in a hurry, that it needs to be prepared. It's not true. This amendment of the law was already prepared by the previous government in almost identical wording, a little otherwise it was with vaccination, there the view was different, because the coalition, when it answers and adopts the laws, cannot afford something so populist that activists offer us. So this law has been prepared long enough. He was sufficiently reminded, the arguments were answered, and no one convinced me that the Ministry of Health didn't take that into account. He does. Another argument. Pharmaceutical lobby. I checked and asked. I admit I don't know which pharmaceutical companies make it, how contracts are concluded. I knew there were some ties in the past to a company that had a monopoly on the delivery of vaccines, but this isn't. Contracts have been signed for two years, and I did not find, in fact, any error as an enemy of corruption in this state that anyone had benefited from or greased their pockets. So this isn't even an argument for me. I could comment here on some of the discussion posts of my colleagues that touched me a little bit. I am neither a pediatrician nor an immunologist nor a vaccineologist, but I am sufficiently educated, and I even tested for epidemiology in 1967. I think that nothing has changed since, because vaccines are important for combating infections in general. The fact that there is much more vaccine today is good. I could say some complications in measles, mumps, chickenpox, and other so-called. small childhood diseases, but certainly the rapporteur through the President would confirm that there are complications, but that pediatricians can solve them. So I think that the opinions of professional societies, such as pediatric, vaccination, immunological, are binding to me, and not some opinions of someone, now I could say pseudo-professionals, because I think there are a number of jobs that prove that vaccination is just important. Another opinion is from the Association of Practical Physicians for Children and the youth of the parties called. individual vaccination. This association does not agree to be treated individually. It is done individually because every doctor knows when he can inoculate, when he must not vaccinate, how he should proceed with complications and how he must report it. This is another argument that complications are not registered. They're very well registered, and I think we know about it. There are certain pardons when complications occur, but the argument that I have a severely damaged child after vaccination, and when I ask: And what vaccinations and what is he? - I don't know, but he's severely disabled. That's not an argument for me. Everything needs to be logged, examined, documented, and then we can talk about whether or not vaccination caused complications. I really do not understand a campaign that is carefully and long-term organized. All the reasons written in these letters are quite sophisticated, but they don't convince me. One thing I don't understand is that this campaign has international scope. I don't know why anyone would want us to have infectious disease epidemics on this earth again, but now I'm saying this on purpose in general that it might in some way prevent a population explosion. This view seems a little paranoid to me, but I really don't understand why such an action is taking place. Now, at the end of the day, allow me my personal experience of vaccination on my own skin and of vaccination by a doctor who intervened in the first line for 22 years. In 1963, as an audience of the Medical Hygiene Faculty, I took part as an experimental person when vaccination tests were already carried out on humans, and thus, again, I argue that all vaccines are simply examined in a laboratory, tested on animals and then also on volunteers, on humans, that they are sufficiently examined and all complications are recorded. Thus, we took part as medical doctors in testing the vaccine of American and Soviet influenza. At the time we knew that the flu had two types, so we were vaccinated against one type that was at the time, and I can say that by 1963 I was at least three times a member, in quotes, an epidemic of influenza, but it is true that after this vaccination I never received the flu. [[15.10 hours]] Experts' opinions say that this cannot be justified professionally, because the vaccine may be active for a year or three years at most. But it was a fact. There were no complications, and the vaccines were definitely significantly less quality than they are today. Now as a doctor who drove to complications especially during the flu epidemic. Most of the people who were seriously ill, were people with cardiovascular disease, lung disease, had a much harder course and had a much greater mortality. I met with death, I wrote a death certificate for pneumococcal infection, but what struck me the most is a thing that is really professionally very interesting, but so far unexplored - it was said that meningococca would not get a child within a year. Isn't that right, rapporteur? It's not true anymore. I wrote a death certificate to a one-month-old child who died of meningococca. Of course, we didn't know that in the helicopter when we found out, so all the members of this crew were worried because meningococcus is a very invasive bacteria, so we started taking antibiotics preventively. We as doctors take it a little differently, we think the germs and all the negative influences don't affect us. I could say a lot of that experience. I think you're tired of me. But the conclusion is that I will never support the opinions we receive as Members, and I will always support the law that is currently being prepared by the Ministry of Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Mr Holík has the floor now with his point of fact. Mr. Andrle will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will wake you up a little. I confess, as an MP, I meet a number of young mothers who attack me: Cancel vaccination! Do something about it! I point out that I am a proponent of vaccination, but we live in a democratic society and we can't afford to say - I don't want it, and if he doesn't want it, we can beat him. So I'm giving the following proposal, and I'd like it to be added as one of the points, as one of the supplements: who doesn't want to get his child vaccinated, but he has to count on the fact that if the child gets sick with the disease against which he should have been vaccinated, so that part of the compensation for the treatment is borne by the parents themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u19	I will give the floor to the rapporteur, but before that was the factual point of Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, honourable members of the government, I will establish my colleague Štětina. That's exactly the same problem in my head: who's behind it, why is there such an awkwardness against this segment, who activates these people, with forgiveness? I already think it's some sort of competitive company struggle, or it's someone who wants to hurt pharmaceutical companies. I don't know. I really don't know. But I was gonna say one thing. I may owe you an explanation here. You've all met about the material that went online that fights vaccination, says all the half-truths there, and I really want to draw attention to one of those half-truths, too. Otherwise, as far as the half-truths that even use false studies about the influence or the possibility of self-influence, autism, etc. are concerned, this was a false study, the author had to apologize afterwards, pay penalty payments, the prestigious magazine that published it apologized, but unfortunately it's still tradování, it's transmitted. Even the arguments that they bring to us on the Internet or in those pseudo-studies appear to us. I just want to say that I've read one of these things. Maybe you guys who read it, you know my quote came out here from the House. Please, I mentioned tetanus as a surgeon here, and with forgiveness, they make me... sort of a mutter, if I say so, non-medical, because they accuse me that I don't know that tetanus is not passed on from child to child. Well, of course I know, I know where tetanus is, that it's everywhere in the soil, etc. They say all you have to do is wash your hands. Please, these people don't know what they're talking about. It's a conflicting bacteria, it's transmitted to the wound, it's transferred to the blood, some handwashing with soap isn't gonna help us. Although it's a anaerobic bacteria that can survive in the air, we all know that. I'm just explaining to you that what they said specifically is about me, it was just the half-truth that was once again used for the benefit of these activists. So even our quotes in the House are unfortunately abused in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u21	Now the rapporteur has the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd react quickly to my previous speaker. There's only one thing I'd like to say. First of all, I don't know how things are going today, if I'm not in conflict because I'm a pediatrician. That's the first thing I'm gonna say. But on the other hand, I would like to say that this is an "interesting view," but we are not talking about those children who get sick because of those who are not vaccinated. So here it's really very important that there's a certain level of vaccination in the population. We can talk about percentage, but if that level isn't enough, then even individual vaccinations can't work. I think I'm gonna get to that in the process, but that's why I just wanted this comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u23	Mr Andrle has the floor now, Mr Kaňkovský will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u24	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to express myself on this issue of vaccination and inoculation of children from the point of view of the father of four children and from the point of view of the grandfather of ten grandchildren. I have nothing against vaccination. I just got my hands on an evaluation like that, two maps to quote something from. These are data published by the League of Human Rights. It is on the website and it is compulsory vaccination in the legal order of 31 countries of the European Union. If I look at this map, I find that the countries where vaccination is optional are Denmark, Germany, Estonia, the Netherlands, Finland, Portugal, Italy, Austria, Ireland, Spain, Cyprus, Sweden, Lithuania, Great Britain, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland. Then there is an indication that Belgium has one compulsory vaccine, France 3 compulsory vaccines, Italy 4, Malta 3, Greece 4. Then there's 5 to 8 vaccines - there's no state. Then all states are postcommunist - Bulgaria 10, Czech Republic 9, Croatia 10, Latvia 14, Hungary 11, Poland 10, Romania 10, Slovakia 10, Slovenia 9. We're significantly different from the West. And the second map gives data on sanctions. All I'm saying is that it's a statement from the League of Human Rights that we, together with France, are the last ones to limit this law the most, that is to say, entry into kindergarten and other collectives. At least they limit those countries that have one to three vaccines and still voluntarily. That's all and just some interesting information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and have a good afternoon. I'll read the two note cards that came to me. Today, from 15 to 16.30, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes for reasons of work and from 16.30, Mr Martin Novotný apologises for reasons of work. I note one point of fact that Mr Vyzula has made. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to say something about the foreman here. Basically yes, one of the arguments of the League of Human Rights was that vaccination in the surrounding states is not compulsory, or is partly compulsory, etc. Then why are we obliged? One interesting piece of information says that Germany, which does not have compulsory vaccinations, has major measles problems. I'm not saying epidemics - they had 3,000 measles cases last year and they're thinking of introducing mandatory vaccinations! And suddenly, we're gonna disturb him. And as far as the activists are concerned, it's an interesting subject, very philosophical, I think, and sociological. Maybe that's what they should be dealing with. social behaviorists, that's a terrible name, behaviorists, but that's what they're called, because what group of people are they? There is no way we can underestimate them because they are mostly educated people who argue quite decently, but there is something missing - a professional opinion. And it's kind of a democracy tax that everybody can say what they want today, and they're doing more or less that. Maybe. But some ideas on their part, as the League of Human Rights, have come up with the fact that we are violently introducing vaccinations without parental consent, is complete nonsense. The law says that only with the consent of the parents is there any other way. And the exception - no, it's not an exception, but what it's about is really just an emergency vaccination, but even then it's not possible without parental consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another party to the debate is Mr Andrle and Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. [[Objection from the diaper.]] Has it been? In that case, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský and Mr Svoboda will be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u28	Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues, we are returning today at a repeated second reading to a very monitored amendment to the Public Health Act. As has been said here, the Health Committee has repeatedly discussed it in the meantime, but this amendment has also been very intensively discussed by the public and the media. Most of us dealt with dozens, some of us maybe hundreds of e-mails, and both lay representatives and representatives of the professional public took turns in the parliamentary offices. The thematics involved have already been mentioned several times. The spectrum of opinions on how to continue in the vaccination system in the Czech Republic is very wide. We cannot ignore the growing social debate on this subject as well as the opinion of the part of the public that demands changes in the organisation of vaccinations. It must be said that this debate cannot be avoided. This is a very sensitive subject, which, given the fact that it affects our children, also causes a number of emotions. However, from my point of view, any such discussion needs to be conducted structurally, professionally and only then politically. It is not possible to turn this order because it is really a very fundamental topic. The Health Committee, by its resolution in January of this year, committed the Ministry of Health to the provisions of a broad working committee in which both representatives of the professional public, representatives of legislators, the Ministry of Health and representatives of the public should work. As the Minister and the rapporteur mentioned here today, this commission has already been set up, it will soon begin its work. It is up to us, the members of the Health Committee, but also you, colleagues and colleagues, to quickly set out for this Working Commission the main topics that the Commission should deal with and adopt a conclusion on them, which, if necessary, would lead to legislative changes. In this context, I appeal that we consider the commission's work assignment very well, so that we can specify the issues on the issues in the organisation and vaccination system, so that we can request clear conclusions from the committee's deliberations. It must be said very loudly here that the issue of vaccination cannot really be discussed consistently and crediblely in such a range within a few weeks, i.e. if we want to act responsibly, and this is towards our children our duty. I know that opposers or critics of the current vaccination system do not want to hear such words, but as Vice-President of the Health Committee, as a doctor with many years of practice, and not as a father of four children, I cannot imagine that without training we would take serious changes to the vaccination system in our Republic. And yet I confess that I would like to discuss some of them, and I can imagine some of them. Now to the two specific problems of the amendment under discussion. The first is paragraph 40 of the approved resolution of the Committee on Health, and here I confess that I raised my hand for him, proposing to amend Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on Health Services, in § 38 para. 7. Unfortunately, this proposed change caused a great negative response between parents and also between part of the doctors and according to a number of lawyers contacted, it can also be interpreted in a way that children could be vaccinated against the will of their parents. Given the fact that the proposed provision actually shows signs of multiplicity, I addressed the request for a legal opinion by the Parliamentary Institute, which, in my opinion, confirmed my presumption and the opinion of external lawyers. In its observations, the Parliamentary Institute speaks of the trifle of this provision, with the fact that one interpretation can actually be interpreted in a way that, in practice, children could be vaccinated against the will of their parents. For my part, I am certainly saying that I cannot imagine this practice in practice, and I am also convinced that this was in no way the intention of the petitioner. However, I am deeply convinced that, as a legislature, we are obliged to approve such legal standards, which are unambiguous and legally indisputable. Yes, perhaps we can smile now because we well know that many of our legal standards do not correspond to this rule. But that is not an excuse, rather the opposite. It is our priority duty to ensure that the laws adopted have a clear interpretation. If this fails, it can be seen as our greater or lesser failure. With this in mind, I will propose in a detailed debate an amendment to the resolution of the Committee on Health on paragraph 40, which I will propose a point from the Committee's resolution to delete and leave the existing wording of Paragraph 38 (1). 7 Health Services Act, which should bring about a calming down of the storm of emotions between our parents. In this regard, I also believe that the proposed amendment as a whole will not do so. The second area I want to mention in the discussion is the issue of confirmation of children's medical fitness for recovery events, namely summer camps and schools in nature. Various solutions have been proposed here and there are also proposed: either to maintain the current status, with the validity of this certificate extended by one year, i.e. to two years overall; in Mr Farský amendment, through Mr President, we are talking about the abolition of the obligation to document this certificate except for children who are dispensed with with chronic disease. We have discussed this issue very Kasal with the professional public and with representatives of the Ministry of Health, especially with the David Hygiene Dr. Valenta and Dr. Rážová. Various proposals have been made, and in the end my colleague Kasal and I have proposed a solution to the chief health care professional, which should satisfy both the requirement of parents not to be harassed by obtaining confirmation, often it costs them a day of vacation, often even considerably more worries, but it should also calm the organizers of the camps and also health professionals who consider all of the above-mentioned certificates to be necessary. [[15.30 hours]] Our proposal is to regulate the implementing decree on Section 5 of the Health Services Act concerning the filling of preventive inspections. The principle of the adjustment would be to establish the obligation that a general practitioner for children and adolescents during regular preventive examinations, which take place in children between the sixth and fifteen years of age in regular two-year cycles, i.e. in the seventh, ninth, eleven, thirteen and fifteen years of age, should also be required to issue medical certificates for recovery operations as part of the preventive examination. The parent would therefore obtain the necessary confirmation in this preventive examination, the validity would be the two years mentioned. Parents would miss out on visiting a pediatrician with their child, while medical devices would still receive the necessary information if needed. I consider this solution to be a reasonable compromise, which we discussed with my colleague Kasal and with the leadership of the Czech Council of Children and Youth, which accepts it. In this context, I would like to conclude by asking here at the forum, the Minister, whether this proposed solution, which we have discussed with the Chief Hygiene Officer, has been adopted and in what time frame can be expected to be amended by the implementing decree. Personally, I very much intercede for the deadline to be within three months at most. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask the Minister politely afterwards, perhaps in the final words, for a brief answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Svoboda, Mr Farský will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u30	Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as a relative expert, to be involved in a debate that is almost impenetrable. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Nováková very much for the words she said here. I mean, we're dealing with the vaccine problem wrong. We're dealing with him as a two-unit dispute. Some parents and doctors. We are going to do this in a well-known Czech way, which says "a different opinion is an insult that can only be washed away by blood," instead of doing what my colleague Nováková has so well described here, that is, to create room for us not to fight this matter, but to be discussed by doctors and educators with parents. Unfortunately, it's not as simple as my colleague said, but it's a path that's certainly reasonable. And it's also necessary. It is necessary to realize, and this is the answer - he is no longer here - to the question of why we inoculate when a non-inoculated child gets into the vaccine, that nothing really happens. Of all the statistical studies, we know that if vaccination falls below 90 percent, it actually ceases to function as a protective mechanism against the epidemic. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that you will be voting on these matters to get acquainted with the results we know from Ukraine, which abolished the vaccinations that were mandatory as a post-Soviet country. Just because they didn't have it in principle, they canceled their duty and there was such a huge epidemic that affected 15 percent of all children. That's not funny anymore. Look at what is happening in Bangladesh, what is happening in all those countries that do not inoculate when the epidemiological situation deteriorates, what epidemics are taking place there and in what form. As a physician, my father kept in his pocket a special pen that he used when he got to a child with diphtheria. The diphtheria was able to clog the breath tube completely, and the only way was to cut through the trachea to get the air to the child who was already blue and dying. They just had a thick needle for it. They were able to pierce it exactly in that ring, and that was the thing that, I remember, my father did relatively very often. It's a thing we're not gonna meet. But if we change our vaccination system, with a constant influx of migrants from countries where the disease is frequent, we will be in a completely different situation. What we already know today is the question of tuberculosis that has been brought to our prisons by prisoners from Eastern European countries. And one last thing to conclude. In order not to war, to simply discuss with those who have a different opinion, we must also recognize one thing. At the moment when the opinion of a relatively small group, a sophisticated group, a group that they form, as has been said here, mostly college students and educated people, when they transport and disappear the obligation of vaccination, I don't know if everyone in our society is at such a level that they are able not to inoculate and take care of it and not take advantage of the child. I'm afraid we have such groups of parents. Like I say openly, we don't all have the best hundred percent people in the world. But it's the same with the parents. The exact same thing. And both sides must realize that. The moment we open that space, he'll be abused by irresponsible parents. Parents who don't care about the kids, at worst, put them in an institution, aren't going anywhere to inoculate the baby. They'll just be glad they don't have to do anything for the baby. And the last thing my colleague Kaňkovský said about the formation of the group that will deal with it. This is an extremely important matter. Because if I want what my colleague Nováková said to begin to apply, that means that the individual vaccination plan will really be one of the options, he is now, but what's there needs to know what it means. In any case, an individual vaccination plan means a different onset or deterioration of the onset of immunity. Therefore, we need to know how it is to be done, we also need to know how many children we have vaccinated according to the individual vaccination plan. There just has to be some kind of evidence. It's not that simple. At the moment when I inoculate half the children with an individual vaccination plan, which will remain an interval of six months or three quarters of a year without the emergence of immunity, I simply canceled my own vaccination. Therefore, I very much welcome the fact that a group of experts will work to answer all these questions, because the worst thing in medicine is to establish something by law. If you set it up by law, everyone has to do it. And it doesn't have to be quite right, or the development can go in a different direction, other vaccines can develop. Other mutant variants of these diseases may arise, and therefore all these things should not be established by law. There should be an open space for the free application of the latest knowledge of medical science and use that space after communication with those parents who are able to communicate. There's no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I will read another note. From 15.30 to 16.30, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes for reasons of work. I will now ask Mr Jan Farský for his contribution to the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that I would come here after my colleague Svoboda and respond to his flaming look at the doctor, as we have so far been used to with regard to vaccination. I don't have to do this. And I was almost wondering if I should withdraw my application. I think we're witnessing here, and it's so good, a huge shift from those previous second readings, where there were two unconciliable camps that didn't listen to each other, when the trench between them just deepened, when at the same time there was increasing distrust on both sides, and we really didn't approach any outcome, no solution. [[15.40 hours]] The shift to the solution is huge here. I would like to thank him for that, because I am no longer afraid to speak as a representative of the larger individualisation of the vaccination plan without being called a dwarf, and I think that is a good thing, because it is the first step towards having a debate that is very necessary in this sensitive area. The situation on the Health Committee was not so clear and indeed, as Mr Kaňkovský mentioned here, the Parliamentary Institute actually describes in its opinion that the amendment to Section 38 (1) of the Act. 7 in Law No 372/2011 Sb. it is problematic, it may be unconstitutional and that this part of the resolution of the Committee on Health needs to be re-evaluated and considered whether it really has a basis in this respect. The reason I didn't withdraw my application, and I thought it would make sense for me to come forward is to say the next step that I'm definitely going to implement and to which I'm applying. At this point, I am already working on preparing a proposal to repeal the legislation. Now, please don't be alarmed. But it is so that, as the Constitutional Court decided at the beginning of this year, and in part of this finding in the dissenting opinion of the Constitutional Judge Kateřina Šimáčková, it is quite clear that the issue of constitutionality of the decree dealing with vaccination solves the numbers, solves the vaccination plan, solves the vaccine as it is questionable. And I think it is a question of legislation and legislation, if there is any doubt as to whether our regulations are in accordance with the Constitution, so that this constitutionality is verified. I would like to say that this proposal, and I will address my fellow Member and fellow Member, if this decree stands up to Article 7 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. I am going to submit this by the end of this June so that by the end of this year this decree can be evaluated by the Constitutional Court as constitutionally conformal or vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I close the general debate, I ask if anyone else is applying to it. I don't see anyone. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I didn't notice the motion to return the guarantee committee. In that case, we will move on, and I am opening a detailed debate. I merely recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I will now give the floor to the first person to enter into a detailed debate. It is Mrs Nina Nováková and Mrs Hana Aulická will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apply to the amendment under my name under number 2256. I took the liberty of redoing the amendment so that it would be divided into four separate parts, allowing some of my colleagues and colleagues to raise their hand in a calm conscience for at least one of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Hana Aulická to prepare Mrs Soňa Marková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just give me a few more words. I have to say that most of our colleagues and colleagues have certainly had visits from their offices to moms and dads who have had personal experience with vaccination, and we must all say that we cannot talk about them as so-called. bio-mothers. That was one point. The next thing I would like to say is that, unfortunately, mostly all those who have spoken here in the general debate, so I am very sorry that no one has visited the seminar that was held on this subject at the beginning of April and during February. Another thing I would just like to say is that the Ministry of Health has also admitted that every year there is an increase in the number of parents who delay vaccinations or do not want to inoculate at all. And the important and fundamental question is why and for what reasons. And the answer? It's clear. Fear of side effects. Therefore, let me present to you today the motion for an accompanying resolution, as amended: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to immediately launch further preparation of the amendment of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and other related laws, on the basis of the latest scientific knowledge and experience of both national and foreign. In particular, the amendment to the Act will reflect a possible re-evaluation of the legally binding vaccination calendar, in particular with regard to the scope of the derogations still acceptable, and any changes to the vaccination scheme in relation to individuality of the case, as well as legal provision of performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Soňa Marková and Mr Novotný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u38	Have a nice day, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to apply to my amendment, which, oddly enough, does not involve vaccination, when, after we had been having discussions not only here in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in the Committee on Health, it seemed as if the whole law on public health was based solely on, or the whole amendment was merely a question of vaccination. The other problems that have been addressed here, that is to say, the issue of bathing and drinking waters, the issue of noise protection, the question of safety at work and other and other topics that have been addressed here, so it has remained behind. One of the things that were also addressed by the amendments was the introduction of mandatory testing for HIV infection. I took the liberty of submitting an amendment to the Committee on Health, which the Minister supported, but the Health Committee did not pass, and I believe that this amendment should be approved. My amendment can be found in the system under number 2048 and is to delete paragraph 181. Let me briefly justify this amendment. The introduction of mandatory testing for the presence of HIV infection in so-called suspects constitutes a serious intervention in the personal rights of individuals for whom there is no public interest. Even if the mandatory testing manages to detect the presence of the disease in one of the persons tested, this may not lead to a change in the behaviour of that person. Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on Public Health Protection, does not define who is a person suspected of being infected with the human immunodeficiency virus. This Act only specifies in the context of the provisions on quarantine measures § 6 para. (a) that a natural person suspected of being infected is a healthy natural person who, during the incubation period, has been in contact with an infectious disease or has been present at the outbreak of the disease. The definition clearly does not comply with the circumstances relating to HIV disease and will in practice raise questions as to how the provision will apply to HIV disease. [[15.50 hours]] Mandatory testing for antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus is a major invasion of privacy and human rights violations. This is the main reason why the World Health Organization has issued a strong statement in which it rejects mandatory testing, except for blood control intended for blood donors, tissues and organs. It is likely that an adjustment extending compulsory testing for the presence of antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus would be found to be incompatible with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in particular Article 7 (1) (a) and (b) thereof. It would therefore be unconstitutional. Compulsory testing not only protects public health but can endanger it. Testing only allows diagnosis. However, the diagnosis alone cannot stop the spread of the disease in a situation where the disease cannot be completely cured by the virus of human immunodeficiency. The carrying of human immunodeficiency virus is not a contagious disease in the commonly experienced meaning of the word. Unlike tuberculosis, the virus is not transmitted by a drip infection. Unlike typhoid, the virus cannot be transmitted by food or water. The fact that HIV spreads primarily through sexual intercourse in the Czech Republic means that none of the citizens are defenseless against infection and can effectively resist transmission - sexual abstinence, monogamous relationship, safer sex. A situation where a natural person deliberately or negligently threatens someone else or even infects a human immunodeficiency virus is currently being treated by a criminal code. In such a case, this person may be tested for human immunodeficiency virus antibodies without its consent in accordance with § 71 para. 2 (c) Act on the Protection of Public Health. Despite the progress of medical science, the delivery of the human immunodeficiency virus still brings serious personal and social consequences, and it is up to everyone to decide whether or not to take the test. Mandatory testing is a pressure measure that interferes with the Constitution of Human Rights Guaranteed. The benefits of mandatory testing are illusionary and the side effects of such an approach are dangerous for the protection of public health. The World Health Organisation points out that compulsory testing is not appropriate even in cases where public health authorities are initiated, as mandatory testing does not lead to a change in behaviour that alone can prevent further spread of the disease. If a person has been forced to a mandatory test, he has less incentive to change his behaviour and to avoid spreading the virus than the person who has voluntarily undergone the testing and passed the pre- and post-test counseling of trained personnel. On the contrary, compulsory testing discourages the population from voluntary testing. At the same time, the success of HIV prevention still depends on the responsibility of the individual's behaviour and the willingness to change risk behaviour. Voluntary cooperation cannot be obtained in a violent manner by compulsory testing. The mandatory testing of persons is also steeply contrary to the international rules on HIV, AIDS and human rights issued by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. That is the justification for my amendment. Furthermore, allow me to apply to the second amendment, which is in the House system under number 2053 and which concerns a very complex issue of chemical law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u39	I also thank you, Madame, and I will now ask for Mr Novotný's speech and Mr Vácha will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, allow me to apply to the amendment, which was mentioned under number 2037 and I am the petitioner. This amendment does not address and is not about whether it should be vaccinated or not, I personally advocate vaccination, but this amendment is in line with the initial intention of the Public Health Act and its aim is to protect and promote the health of the child. The adoption of this amendment will create conditions under which children will have the opportunity to reside safely in nature, to bring forming experiences from the camp, expeditions or schools in nature. In order to achieve this objective, the proposed amendment, firstly, rationalises legal commitments so that they are realistic and effective; Secondly, it respects and strengthens the responsibilities and rights of parents and legal representatives, where appropriate; third - reduces the administrative complexity of compliance with legal requirements; Fourthly, it takes into account the long-term positive trend in the hygiene situation of recovery actions, taking into account the diversity of their organisers, which does not endanger unjustified high sanctions. So one more time. I sign up for the amendment under number 2037. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Vácha to speak and Mr Kolovratník will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendment under the number of the House press 2251. The following paragraph 3 is inserted after paragraph 2 in the text of Section 45: "Practical and specific vaccinations may be carried out according to an individual vaccination plan in the event of a health condition temporarily preventing the administration of the vaccine, in the event of major adverse reactions following the administration of the vaccine or other health indications. [[temporary contraindications]] The individual vaccination plan shall be established by the health service provider.'; Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr kolovratník, Mr Kaňkovský, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u44	Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. I would like to apply personally to the amendment under number 2039. The amendment is heading, virtually. it is initiated by the Transport Ministry and I am happy to submit it and I now allow you to ask for the support of this amendment. I will explain very briefly and in a very simple way what is going on, how transport is linked to the protection of public health. This matter concerns the so-called priority of noise in the territory, where currently under current legislation it is often that near some line construction, be it a road, railway, but sometimes also an industrial building, is subsequently allowed and built, for example, family houses or housing houses. Only after the houses were built next to the existing road or railroad will their owners complain that there is noise, and after... Those cases have actually happened several times in real life, after measures have been ordered and implemented by the court on the basis of measurements by the sanitary station, then the investor, which is mostly the state, has to produce, implement and invest noise screens. We have a number of cases where the state was forced to build noise barriers or screens in such a way additionally due to inappropriate construction and construction. Indeed, these are completely unnecessary costs for the state, unnecessary delays. These costs are in the order of tens of millions of crowns and are not incurred by the state. So in a very simple way: I am reporting for the amendment under number 2039. If you want any explanation, of course I'm ready to explain it at any time. And there's one last line of support. This proposal was also positively adopted by the Economic Committee, where the Economic Committee adopted a positive, recommending opinion on it and sent it to the Health Committee with this opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Farský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u46	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to sign up to my own already in the general debate on the proposed amendment, which is included in the system under number 2264. This amendment is an amendment to the resolution of the Committee on Health. 75 of the 18th meeting held on 19 March 2015. I have also said the reasons in the general debate. I will just repeat - the Health Committee was adopted at its meeting on 19. 3. 2015 of the resolution, which includes point 40, which proposes amendment of § 38 of Act No. 372/2001 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision, as amended, in paragraph 7. In the view of the legal authority, the proposed regulation brings considerable interpretational uncertainty, and the most likely legal interpretation is that, under certain circumstances, services intended to prevent and spread infectious diseases could be carried out without consent under this regulation. This legal situation shows a significant reduction in the human rights protection of the patient. I have already mentioned here - I cannot imagine it in practice, but nevertheless, if we have a multiple version of the legal standard, I see it as an inappropriate matter. For this reason, I propose this amendment, which would abolish the disputed part of the draft resolution of the Committee on Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Farský will now speak in a detailed debate and Mrs Nohavová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u48	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the amendment, which is set out in the system under number 1876, and only briefly to its essential part and justification. Now, there's a situation where if some underage of those 150,000 who go to recovery every year, if he wants to leave, he has to go to the doctor before, and the doctor has to give him a medical opinion, if he's capable of the event he's going to, whether it's a recovery event, whether it's a camp or a longer event, a school in nature, then he has to get an assessment that he's capable of going to. That evaluation's one year's worth. The amount is usually paid for somewhere around 200 CZK. Of course, the underage child is required or accompanied by his legal guardian for such a visit. The proposal I propose here says that if the organizer of this recovery action and the legal representative of a healthy, non-dispensorized child agrees that an opinion can be issued by a legal representative, he can do so. And that's it. This simple proposal, and it basically brings something that doesn't happen here often, it's that by law we don't create other obligations, we don't create other forms, we do paperwork, but we cancel one of those papers. I'd really like you to work with me on this and cut red tape. Thank you in advance for supporting Amendment 1876.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u49	A reduction in bureaucracy is certainly a commendable act, Mr. Ambassador, I commend that. Now in a detailed debate, Mrs Nohavová, and the rapporteur will be prepared for the speech in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Have a good afternoon, everyone. I am signing up for my amendment, which is in the system under the number 1920 and addresses, in simple terms, the reduction of fines by providers of health and social services. It is also part of the Health Committee resolution. I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Madame. So now the rapporteur is ready to speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u52	Vice-President, thank you. I would like to sign up for Amendment No 2269, which is in common with colleague Birk, whom we have proposed. This is a compromise proposal from the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health and the Chamber of Commerce, which affects noise. Just a brief explanation. This proposal proposes that the area relevant to noise penetration should be specified by implementing legislation. According to Section 106 (2) (b) of the EEA Agreement, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of In the context of this amendment, it is therefore proposed to supplement this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. I don't see anyone enrolled in a detailed debate. That's right. In that case, I will conclude a detailed debate and ask the rapporteur and the petitioner if you will take the final floor. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on the debate that was heard here today. I would like to thank all my colleagues. Because most of it was about vaccination, I don't just want to reduce it to the vaccination, but it was a gros, let me stop at a few things that are really important and I can react a little bit from my practice. From the point of view of the post-vacation reaction that was said here, and it was said that it could not be said that there was no such thing. I've been in medicine for 22 years, and I can tell you that there are so many different diseases in children, especially at that low age, that it is very difficult to say that the resulting reaction is after vaccination. On the other hand, I am so open, and for this reason I welcome the fact that there is already a working group at the Ministry that will address this, where we really need to figure out what the evaluation of such responses will be, which will lead us to better dealing with it. As far as the individual vaccination plan is concerned, it has been said that it is not that we want to introduce it. The individual vaccination plan really already exists, it is in the decree and, of course, given that it is individual, it captures a certain percentage of the population, that is mainly in children who have health complications. Let it be an allergy complication, let it be neurological complications, such as epileptics. And I could go on like this. But this is again, I think, for the task force that's already been set up. I would also like to add to my colleague Kaňkovský, through Mr President, that we have thought even further about how to relieve, so in the working sense we are inventing some kind of paper when I say it just like this, an electronic form that would be unified to capture the needs of doctors, and whether they go to any event, that is, whether they go to summer camp or a week's stay somewhere where it will be clearly described what the doctor needs, what is necessary and what is not necessary. Furthermore, there will clearly be another form of vaccination, because at present it is either "inoculated properly" or "not vaccinated" on those certificates. There is no other option, and a number of doctors are concerned, given how this vaccination was discussed - and children who did not have exactly everything vaccinated, were indeed discriminated against and were not released for these events. So we also want to solve this with this single paper. As regards my colleague Farský, through Mr President, he spoke about dispensarisation and bureaucracy. I also commend it, I will certainly cooperate with him in reducing bureaucracy, but in this case, it is very important information when these children travel far away from their residence. [[16.10 hours]] We often meet in the summer months when parents send a child to stay and go abroad on their own, and the doctor has no more detailed information that he needs to work with. And most of the time, they get to these hospitals in the evenings, and you have no chance of getting more detailed information so that you can treat the children so entrusted afterwards. Finally, I would like to say that I am happy to discuss this part of the law without conflict mainly from the point of view of vaccination and I look forward to any contributions that will then be dealt with in the working group. During today's discussion, a total of seven Members spoke in the general debate and ten in the detailed debate, when they were reading their amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u55	I thank you, and now I ask for the Minister's final word. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to apologise for not being able to be completely brief, as is my custom, as the debate has been very comprehensive and not completely structured. It is therefore not entirely easy for me to respond to everything, and I think that many of these things deserve my response. I, like Mr Kasal, would like to thank those who have a different opinion on compulsory vaccinations, who have a different view on the compulsory vaccination calendar, that the discussion was carried in the vast majority on a material basis. I think that's a basic assumption for us to get to the possible and necessary changes to the system. At the moment when the positions are ideologically escalated, and when it will be heard here, why we want people to be vaccinated, we will find it very difficult to come up with any changes. [[Noise in the hall.]] I am glad that we were able to establish a working group as we were asked for on the Health Committee. Some of the speakers who represent different views on this subject are members of this group. I believe the debate will be held there. But as has been said, it is often a very technical discussion, because such topics as individual vaccination plans etc. are not entirely simple. Here, let me have a little bit of a gag. The current vaccination calendar contained in the Ministry of Health Decree is based on the recommendations of the World Health Organization. The aim is to optimize both the diagrams and the distances between each vaccination. It takes into account not only the age of the vaccinated person, the number of doses for the current ability to produce protective antibodies, but also the fact that different types of vaccines require different schemes. Some vaccines can be administered at the same time and a distance is required among others. I think this calls for a professional discussion and that it cannot be allowed to go so freely at once, because I fear that effective vaccination would be greatly reduced. I would like to support and forward the approval of the Ministry of Health with the two proposals that Mr Kaňkovský has made here, and that is point 40, which, as has been said, can be interpreted differently, although, without a doubt, he was not meant to be forced into vaccination. However, I agree to prevent various interpretations from being released. And I think it's a very good idea to use regular preventive inspections to issue the certificates that health professionals need at these events. I'm applying here to modify the decree, and I think the three-month deadline is real. The next thing I would like to address is the question opened by Mrs Marková - that is possible compulsory HIV testing. And I have to say, her argument on the committee has convinced me. I think it's a very sensitive area and it's moving on the edge. As the petitioner, I agree with the change and launch of the mandatory testing. Regarding the area of noise, which was not much discussed, but which is very important. Perhaps a lot of people are interested in much more than compulsory vaccinations. So here, too, I think we've managed to use that time to discuss a consensus. On the one hand, the interest of protecting citizens from noise and, on the other hand, not causing unnecessary economic costs in transport constructions and others. I am very pleased that there was a compromise proposal with the participation of the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Transport, which is led as an amendment by Mr Kasal and Mr Birke, who I also support. So let me say thank you again. I think that, in contrast to downloading this standard from the first, second reading, a lot of things have been resolved. A lot of things are in consensus, and I think the law has a chance to finally leave the Chamber of Deputies in a very good form to suit the vast majority of those who have spoken about it. To ensure the protection of public health, but to take into account the other arguments, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-28-ps2013-027-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, too, Minister. Since no proposals have been made or the deadline has been returned or shortened, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank the rapporteur and thank the Minister. Before we go any further, I'll read two note cards. Today, from 18 to the end of the day, Mr Václav Votava apologizes and today from 16.30 to the end of the day, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes. I am now opening another point in our negotiations, and this is
