ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, Act No. 247/2000 Coll., on the acquisition and improvement of competence to drive motor vehicles and on changes to certain laws, as amended and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on infractions, as amended / House print 471/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Dan Ťok, the Minister of Transport, will state the draft bill. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Act and the Act on obtaining and improving the competence to drive motor vehicles brings together topics arising from the evaluation of previous amendments to these laws since 2011 and from the expert discussions that the Ministry of Transport has conducted in particular in 2013 and 2014 with a number of entities affected by the regulation of these laws, such as the association of car carriers Česmad Bohemia, the Transport Union, the capital Prague, representatives of the public from the ranks of transport psychologists and cycling associations, the Ministry of Interior, the Transport Police and others. Several areas relating to road safety have been defined which require a change or addition. These are in particular questions concerning the operation of segway self-propelled passenger cars, the retention of vehicle registration certificates in poor technical condition of the vehicle, the bail, the visibility of pedestrians on the road and other sub-treatments aimed at increasing road safety, control and control. In addition to road safety objectives, the objectives to promote cycling have been taken into account, the elimination of the unnecessary administrative burden on professional drivers and carriers, and partly ensuring compatibility with European Union law. The proposed bill therefore also contains changes and proposals in the new regulation, in the transport psychological examination, the professional competence of the driver, in particular regular training, the correction of the transposition of the European Union Directive on driving licences and the adaptation of certain aspects of cycling. By its resolution of 2 September 2015, the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommended that the draft law be discussed and approved as amended by the amendments agreed by the Ministry of Transport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 471/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u4	Thank you for the floor. I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, good afternoon. Since the debate is likely to be longer, there are a lot of us enrolled in the general and detailed debate, so I will try to be very brief. Let me just remind you that the first reading took place on 7 July, the Economic Committee after the break of the law discussed 9/11 and adopted resolution 471/2 with amendments. Those amendments were already born in September, the Economic Committee finally adopted 18. I will repeat what Minister Ťok said - all those adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs were also dealt with positively by the Ministry of Transport. If you agree, at this point, I will not read them all because they are contained in the resolution of the Economic Committee. But I have divided them into four groups at least briefly in preparation, and I will say that points 1, 3, 4 and 5 of the Economic Committee have just been dealt with by lanes reserved for cyclists. Here I would like to remind you that, at the point of the so-called bike package, we voted in particular on another amendment, which was also proposed by me, which introduces these bike lanes, and has not yet adopted it. I once again entered it into the system in a slightly milder version, in agreement with the Ministry, and I will explain it later in the general debate that I have already signed up for. In paragraph 2, the Economic Committee introduces the institute of so-called cycling zones, and then points 6 to 11, 13 and 17 simplify the licensing process for citizens. Finally, in the second part, we focus on the 247/2000 Act, in short, on driving schools. These are points 12, 15 and 16, which are currently devoted to driving schools. We were born quite richly by second reading even after the Economic Committee. Until today, I have counted 14 more amendments, so I will no longer delay and please let's get on with it. I suppose individual authors will now explain and defend them. I remember, the debate from Tuesday on SFDI, I will not take up the final word, but I will always try to respond briefly to them, express my opinion during the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u5	Thank you and I am opening a general debate. Please contact the microphone of the first registered and this is Mr Junek, Mr Karamazov will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I have taken the liberty of presenting - and I will sign up to it in a detailed debate - an amendment to this law, which concerns Article 1 (5). This amendment would introduce tolerance for blood alcohol levels in non-motor vehicle drivers up to half a mile, roughly equivalent to about two ten-degree beers. At this point, I would like to state the reasons which led me to this amendment. First of all, it is certainly the fact that in a large part of European countries, I would say in most countries, this tolerance already exists. This is, of course, due to the fact that this tolerance also applies to drivers of motor vehicles, but there are countries where those borders are separated, when the lower is for drivers of motor vehicles and the higher is for drivers of non-motor vehicles. As an example, I can mention Austria, Finland, Denmark. In Germany, this is handled in a completely different way, where the driver of a non-motor vehicle, or a cyclist, has no limit, only has to prove a safe ride on his machine. So that's one of the reasons. This would actually bring our legislation closer to most European countries. The other reason, and I think the main reason, is the fact that we are building a large number of bike paths nowadays and we are building them with the fact that they are the destination of trips, they serve for relaxation etc., and there we probably logically assume and expect the person to be refreshed there in some way. After all, you know that there are a lot of different buffets and booths on the bike trails, and we have notabene in South Moravia directly wine bike paths, which actually build their own business and business. Unfortunately, the approach is so double in this regard. Somewhere we're pretending that there's no refreshments on those bike paths, probably an example of South Moravia, we're acting like no one's gonna drink there. And then there's the second extreme and the second case where, at the end of the bike path, there's a patrol of the Police of the Czech Republic giving the cyclists a breath. I don't think either of them is right, and there's something that needs to be done about it. The third reason that brought me to the amendment is the fact that we already have a certain level of alcohol tolerated in our blood, a level of 0.24 per mile, and this is due to the fact that 0.2 per mile is considered to be a kind of physiological level of alcohol in individual people and that 0.04 is a deviation of instruments. It's not anchored anywhere in the law, of course, but there's some tolerance here. So these are the main reasons that led me to present this proposal. Yes, I have already submitted this proposal to the Economic Committee, which rejected it, even if it was one single vote. For that reason, I thought I'd try it again directly in plenary. Similarly, the Ministry of Transport has given a negative opinion on the economic committee. I already said that the arguments did not convince me very much, or were based on two statistics or two statistics, while one spoke of 30 percent of all accidents caused by cyclists being under the influence of alcohol. However, there was no indication of the alcohol level, whether 0.2, 0.5 or 1 promile. So it wasn't much of a statement. The second statistical figure said that the biggest annual increase in killed persons in transport, or seven, is precisely for drivers who have consumed alcohol, but within the 0.24. So that's the line that's already tolerated today. I looked at other statistics. I'm just going to give you two examples that talk a little bit about something else, or they're worth something else. The first statistics say that those cyclists who cause an accident under the influence of alcohol, the total number of accidents is 17 percent, so 87 percent of them had more than 1 perm. So we see here that this is a thing that doesn't affect zero tolerance or half a mile, that they're simply people or cyclists who may be using the bike as a means of transportation to a pub. The second statistics, which I intercepted a few days ago, say that in the European Union, the average of killed persons in road traffic is 51 per million. For us, where zero tolerance applies, it is 61 and in Poland, where there is almost zero tolerance, it is 84. So here we see absolutely no connection between whether there is zero tolerance or not, and the number of persons killed in road traffic. So it's just a little bit about the statistics. I expect that my proposal will certainly provoke a debate and perhaps a heated debate. I expect this, however, I would like to hear fair arguments and relevant things in this discussion, not arguments such as that if we have zero tolerance today, the cyclist will have one or two beers, and if we allow 0.5, he will have four or five. I don't think that's an argument, it's not based on anything, it's more like a hunch, a hunch. It's not real, but we'll get to that in the debate. And I certainly don't think that there are any fair arguments I've heard in the television report from Colonel Lerch, when he said that the zero we have here, most of his colleagues from other countries, where they don't have that zero, envy him. Well, I don't know that they haven't brought her there in a long time. One of the arguments that has been raised in the discussion and which must be taken into account is why we are introducing a tolerance for one group of road users and not for the other. Well, the law itself creates two groups of road users: drivers of motor vehicles and drivers of non-motor vehicles. One must have a driver's license, the other may not, etc. But the fact that the driver of a non-motor vehicle and motor vehicle is otherwise viewed, whether or not he has eaten, is also referred to in the commentary of the Criminal Code, namely the offence under Section 274, under the influence of an addictive substance. I'd quote him with permission. So this comment says in the following way: "The threat of the indicated intensity, on the other hand, does not generally result from the driving of a drunken cyclist whose vehicle without motor power and due to its construction and small weight has no more kinetic energy. This risk may arise under certain circumstances, but in such a case it follows only from the particular situation, not from the very nature of the vehicle and the driving on it in a drunken state. A dangerous situation in this sense may be created in a particular case by a drunken person by another activity, such as pulling a trolley, carrying a load and walking a faulty one. If the fault of a drunken cyclist results in a malfunction showing the characteristics of a crime, the action must be assessed according to the nature of the consequences only as a malfunctioning offence, i.e. not in conjunction with a criminal offence pursuant to § 274.' The caselaw of the courts also exists on this comment, so it is supported by a decision of the courts. So that's, as they say, in brief on my proposal, but for now I think that's probably enough, and I'm looking forward to further discussion, and I'm looking forward to the fact that you will support my proposal in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm recording two factual, already three factual points. With the first to the microphone of Mr Kasal, Mr Huml will be prepared, then Mr Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with interest to the contribution made by my fellow Member from the region, but I must fundamentally disagree with him. Not only as a doctor, but as a pediatrician, I have to say that the way alcoholism is increasing today was discussed on the radio, and I think we have a huge tradition in this, not only in the adult population, but also in the children's population. And we should look at it from a global point of view, not just from a transport point of view. When I say one more example, I remember when there were so-called. beer marathons, and I can tell that the result was really unpleasant when I saw six bodies as an autopsy student, and the question was, did I really feel more of that becherovka or was there anything else? So I really don't think it's possible to implement something like this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u9	Thank you, and please, to Mr Huml's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u10	Thank you. Hello. I would also like to disagree with my colleague Junk and make a slightly different argument. I am convinced that it is important to assess whether a person riding a bike under the influence of alcohol can cause or can't. Let me give you an example from practice. We were in traffic accidents in Benešovsko once investigating a car accident where we had two bodies lying on the road and a bicycle between them. We thought someone was hit by a car, and the result of the investigation was that a cyclist was driving under the influence of alcohol on a bike, knocked down a pedestrian, one of them was dead, and the other one was badly injured. So the point is that driving any means that is in traffic requires some mental tension, some concentration and alcohol, whether you want it or not, reduces your options. You feel you're infallible, you're irrevocable, it's just that the discernment is reduced. That's just a fact. Plus a second example, very similar. The walker comes out of the house, walks five meters, has a right sidewalk and there's a cyclist on the sidewalk, and when they met, there was the child again injured and the cyclist drove away. I don't want to argue with you about anything other than the fact that you're able to cause health consequences, even life. So the limit to people riding a bike going at a higher speed than walking, being sober, I think it's justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u11	I thank you for respecting the time limit and please refer to Mr Stanjura's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u12	I would like to support the amendment made by my colleague, Mr Junek, because he is reasonable - even in Croatia's favourite, there is 0.5 permitted levels of alcohol for drivers. I'm talking about motor vehicles. When it works in the vast majority of Western European countries, and now we're not just talking about cyclists, but we're also talking about drivers, I don't think we're any worse than others. We very often, or some of us will say, "We're not that mature, we're not that good, they can afford it, we can't afford it." I just don't think so. I do not think we are worse drivers or cyclists than in Austria, Germany, Andorra, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Denmark, Finland, France, Croatia, Ireland, Iceland, Italy, Cyprus, Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Monaco, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Austria - we can compromise - in Austria is 0.49. I think Mr Junek might as well agree to that, if it's 0.5 or 0.49. He's our neighbor, they have similar traditions, the vintners are sure to know theirs. I ended up with an "r," so it's still in Greece, Slovenia, Serbia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, Great Britain. I don't have statistics from other countries. And with that zero, it is Belarus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Morocco, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Slovakia and Ukraine (?). So even the simple arithmetic list, and I was talking about the permitted levels of alcohol in motor vehicle drivers and not non-motor vehicles. But you, who so passionately call "zero," and what about the walkers? Shouldn't they have zero as well? Do we have statistics on how many walkers were under the influence of alcohol? And he doesn't have to go fast, all he has to do is jump under your car, and you're in trouble like a driver. It's been investigated for a long time, such a tragic accident. They'll withdraw your driving authorisation. So let's see if you want to be even tougher. I think the proposal is reasonable and it is worth supporting, and we will support it at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u13	Thank you. I now have three further factual points - Mr Junek, Mr Jakubčík and Mr Heger. First to Mr. Junek's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u14	Thank you. I'll just respond to the two performances of my colleagues. A colleague of Kasal's. I don't know how child alcoholism is related to introducing a tolerance of 0.5 for cyclists. I don't fully understand. Either we have alcohol here since we were 18 years old, or I really don't understand the argument. And the argument that you've had beer marathons and that it wasn't nice, I believe that, but I'm sure none of those participants ended up with that 0.5 per cent and those two beers. I'm sure they were far, farther away. So there's this whole argument-- I don't know either. Mr Huml. I understand what you're saying, I'm sure the bike-walker collision can be fatal, but it'll cause him to have zero tolerance or not. Especially with your examples - there was one thing I missed, that you didn't say here whether the cyclist who beat someone there or collided, whether he had a zero or a half perm, or if he was completely drunk. I say, we're still talking about that I just want tolerance, which is equal to, let's say, some two ten-degree beers, and I don't want tolerance for those who should use a bike as a means of transportation to a pub. As I was referring to the statistics - 80 percent of cyclists who caused a car accident had more than one permile. For them, the novel doesn't solve anything. They're just going to the pub for four, five, six beers. That's more like regular traffic. Tell me when you're on the bike path or you're home after lunch, when you normally have four beers after lunch! I don't think so. You'll have one, two. And that's what we're talking about here so you don't have to wonder if after Sunday lunch, when you had a beer, two, you could go out in half an hour or two. That's the point of the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u15	I thank Mr Jakubčík's microphone and Mr Heger will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the argument here seems to me 17 percent of traffic accidents are caused by drunk drivers, so we need to banish those 83 percent sober. I think that to list states where there is, where certain levels of alcohol are not allowed - I am not sure that this is the right argument. If those states where a certain level is allowed, a certain accomplice of alcohol, if everyone in those states jumps into the water, will we also jump into the water? I think that we are the Czech Republic and that we have our own reason. And why can't we follow our own reason? If the zero has worked out for us, why not let her, why just try to do something that I think, especially in the Czech Republic, could be a bit of a problem. If we allow 0.1 here, it will tolerate 0.2. And they're all gonna drink to be 0.5. Just like it's speed limit. We all know how it works. That is why I am personally in favour of leaving the zero limit and not accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u17	Thank you and please to Mr Heger's microphone, Mr Pilný will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, I must pay a great tribute to my colleague Stanjur through Madam President. That was a great marketing show, reading countries where alcohol can. It's too bad you couldn't project cars driving 150 on the freeway. That would be quite useful. Seriously, then. I'm against it, of course. That question is not just a matter of argument. I would add an increase in alcohol levels to the opponents that they might still say that the difference between a driver who has a few hundredths or tenths of promile, and a driver who is cold or upset that he is not big at all. That there are a lot of factors that cause mismanagement and increase its risk. But I'm saying this because I think that the ones that arise spontaneously while driving or before are sufficient, and there's no need to add to that the risk of another worsening step, and that's the alcohol level. The last thing I would add to Mr Junek's argument is that it is really difficult to prove who is right about whether one beer tolerated today would be more or less informally exceeded or not. Personally, I think so, that whoever is a little bit addicted to alcohol resists the absolute law, if he can have one beer, it will tune him in to have the next one. That's very likely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We still have four factual points to make. With Mr Pilný's first microphone, Mr Novotný will be prepared, then Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like the same situation to be repeated as on the Economic Committee. We are discussing an amendment to an important law, where there are many points that need to somehow stand up to them and enforce them. The discussion on the Economic Committee extended three quarters of an hour to this point, with the exact same arguments being raised. It would be wrong for it to happen again in some way. It's as usual a duel between law and responsibility. The Economic Committee preferred responsibility and rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u21	Thank you and please to Mr Novotný's microphone. Mr Stanjura will be prepared, followed by Mr Černoch. So far, they're all factual. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u22	Colleagues and colleagues, I just wanted to point out that this is a beautiful situation where we can read what is in one or another practice in different countries of the European Union, and at the same time we can decide for ourselves what practice will be in the Czech Republic. It's a different situation to those prevailing situations where we say we have to accept something. And since we're obliged to transfer here, we're obliged to implement it into our legal order. In the debate mentioned here by Mr Pilný, I merely drew attention to the economic committee's experience rather occasional as a notorious non-alcoholic from a visit to South Moravia. It seems to me that we should not let go and wave our hands at the fact that we have a relatively substantial part of the territory of the Czech Republic, which is the practice of various authorities excluded from our jurisdiction. And there it is quite obvious that on those bike paths in which a large amount of money from the European Union was invested, everyone knows that tolerance is taking place in that region de facto, although de iure is not. I think it's all about the feeling and attitude of each and every one of us, and I'm mentally closer to countries where tolerance is mild than countries where it's zero, and that's why I'm gonna support the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u23	Thank you and please Mr Stanjura. Mr Černoch and Mr Koskuba will be ready after. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u24	First, I have good news for Mr Heger, my esteemed colleague. I'm sure we'll be talking about 150 today. It's part of one of our amendments. We're not going to be deprived of this debate, of course not. But I think the opponents of this amendment are in a bit of an argumentative state. Suddenly foreign experience is not important. It just so happens they're the same countries I heard about yesterday because of the EET that they're great countries. So when it's convenient, it's Croatia, Sweden, and Austria that's throwing themselves at us like they do. And if it's not right for us, we're not gonna look back on them, they're actually jealous! If that were true, they would have set it up, that's what Mr. Junek said. But mostly the argument: if I allow 0.5, our people -- you say so, I don't think so -- they'll have four instead of one beer! And if you allow 150 like in Germany, our people will drive 180! What are these opinions? They're just like you all gonna have more beers! Well, that's not true! What about us who don't drink beer, right? How do we come up with such an argument? And now I see how these losers want to ride their bike on Sunday, they have an amateur blow job, and they're waiting to see if they can leave at 2:30 or 3:00, so they happen to be... But more importantly, and that's much worse! What will the Police of the Czech Republic do? Is this crucial to standing on those bike paths or to guard the reflective vests, as proposed in this law? Or are there other, more important things? I think there are other, more important things. However, these are quite simple: stand somewhere on the bike path and let 50 cyclists inflate and then publish a message: Today we caught 10 percent of cyclists who had more than zero perm. And how did you contribute to road safety? Shouldn't they rather be somewhere dangerous to ride? Where is it passed in unmistakable situations where there is, for example, a bike track or a bike path? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u25	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Černoch's microphone. Mr Koskuba will be prepared, then Mr Huml and then Mr Laudát. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u26	Thank you for the floor and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Only in a quick response to my previous speaker. Surely it would not be good for the police to spend their time waiting for cyclists on the bike trails and to collect as many fines as possible. I agree with that. On the other hand, it may be a peasant opinion, but I don't think alcohol belongs behind the handlebars, not behind the wheel, not behind the helm, not behind the plane, just nowhere. Because even a small amount of alcohol can affect someone - even the House. [[He's responding to the voice from the diaper.]] It can affect someone. And the moment that the influence has and something happens, it's going to be taken away by a person who really isn't responsible. That may be why it's hard, but I personally think I can speak for the entire Dawn Club, so we're in favour of zero tolerance of alcohol in any means of transport. Because it's useless. If I just want to drink alcohol, I'm not driving. And if I'm gonna drive, I'm not gonna drink it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u27	Thank you and I will ask for Mr Koskuba's microphone, Mr Huml will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u28	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I actually respond to the performance of a number of previous speakers. And most importantly, I have to disagree with my honored colleague, Mr. Pilný, that we should not discuss this. With all due respect, after two grueling weeks in this House, I think this is one of the first more interesting debates that really concerns our people's lives. First of all. Secondly, I would like to pay my respects to my colleague Junek for the form of his amendment. I think we should learn from this because it was factual, supported by arguments, and it also forced me to think. [[13.10 hours]] I'll follow up on my colleague, Pilný. He said one great wisdom. It's about law and responsibility. Yes, I have to agree with that, and it suddenly seems to me that by the flood of laws in this country, we are actually suggesting that these people are not responsible at all. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] That's the thing we're producing here. And I'm wondering if we're still gonna move forward when we forbid anyone even wants to have one smoking restaurant in town, that somebody wants to have an open shop, etc. I'll follow up on my colleague Stanjura. Yes, we take examples from abroad, but since, by your means, I respect Zbyněk, dear Zbyněk, here is a paradox that only one country does not have a limited speed. It's just to the edge. However, Holland, for example, tolerates about 0.5 percent of alcohol, but if someone causes an accident, his responsibility is much greater than when he is sober. And that's about law and responsibility. I'll think about my colleague Jung's proposal, although I'm a doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u29	Thank you and please to Mr Huml's microphone, Mr Laudát will be ready. Still factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u30	I would also like to follow up on my colleague Stanjura and his example of international comparison and our zero and their 0.5 promile, 0.8. We even had alcohol here for one time as an extenuating circumstance and it was similar throughout the world. You set an example by gradually reducing. In our country it stopped at zero, in some states at 0.8, in some at 0.5. And it's just a question of whether our zero is 0.25 per mile, if I have to admit that we really have some tolerance here, if there's a reason to double it. Nothing more and nothing less. I think that scientifically doctors confirm that one should be sober behind the wheel and the handlebars, so that there was the development from the mitigating circumstance and today some restrictions went downward. The one at the speed of the ride that we're also arguing about, it's the other way around. It was allowed to run first with the battalion, then with the light, then someone gave eighty, then someone was brave and gave one hundred and ten, then he was even braver and he gave one hundred and thirty, and you propose to increase speed in some sections and only with the approval of the police, and I don't know who everything was, to 150. So that's what I'm thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u31	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr Laudát. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. If my colleague Koskuba here said he'd think about the proposal, I'm not going to think about the proposal at all. Speeds are increasing, and if a cyclist or anyone, the driver, eventually caused injury to himself, I still understand it, but physics is clear, so I'm just always in favour of holding zero tolerance. We cannot compare this with the discipline of drivers in Germany and Austria, unfortunately, because everyone sees at first sight that there are different rides in Germany, and it is probably not just about training in driving schools and the quality of training, but it is also about people's discipline. Interestingly, when the Čech arrive in Germany, they are among the most disciplined. Again I disagree, apparently the Minister thinks it's because there are small sanctions, I don't agree with it, it's about some kind of atmosphere of the country, of society. It's a dramatic start today... I don't know what's going on, but I don't have any explanation for it, except for some kind of moral dislodgement, but I'm seeing it, and the numbers of the most serious accidents record that something happened at the turn of 2013/2014, the morale on the roads is going back dramatically to the time of sometime in the first half of the last decade. Anyone who drives a dramatic amount of D1, but everywhere, you just see that something's going on again, it goes back to that crazy thing where you think that maybe in this country, you don't learn physics. So in this situation, and when I ask if there are ever any law-abiding laps, it's for the police to think about, let no one be mad at me, but like, if there are wine trails, why not beer trails, each community will soon have its brewery back or privates there doing regional breweries. Please, more and more people are driving high, more and more people are driving back drunk. Well, I wouldn't recommend that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u33	Thank you, and please, with another de facto Mr Urban. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the debate is interesting, but in my opinion it is absolutely academic. It doesn't really matter if a fellow Member's amendment passes or doesn't pass, in terms of how life is actually going to evolve. I think that when he's nothing today, we all know what reality is. If it's 0.5, the reality won't change much, and it'll be about the same, even though the alcohol is reducing the attention of the cyclist or motorist. If you try it on your own, I've tried it on, say, a safe stretch, I've tried it on a motorcycle, and there it is, I'd say, the most familiar. So it has to be known on the bike. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. However, we're talking about something like the roads they used to be on the estates. The sidewalk that you're supposed to walk on, and because it was longer, people were walking on a diagonal, so this is something similar. It's just, if there's a ban or no ban and he's on the bike path and he's in the mood for a beer, then if he's responsible, maybe, in my opinion, he can have one. And if it changes anything at the moment... And that's what struck me that the cops are just running the statistics that we have zero, and if, in some given place and county, they suddenly show little fines for how many cyclists they checked, they're being criticized for it. As they're just used to living by the statistics, we check and then the statistics are evaluated somewhere at the headquarters, so right now all there is about cyclists are statistics that they didn't fine enough and checked cyclists to see if they drank or drank anything. So please, let's have this debate, but not for so long, because whatever we decide, real life isn't gonna change that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u35	Thank you and please to the microphone with Mr Novotný in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I just wanted a comment from my old experience of the driver on those motorways, which recently, probably finally, switched to the connection with Prague train, i.e. from the same negative experience that Mr Laudát has, and yet a person who could imagine and would like to allow a speed of 150 km/h on some sections of the Czech motorways. I am convinced that the core of the failure to implement a similar system of an internal social agreement on behaviour on motorways for years lies in the failure of the Chamber of Deputies to do something about the behaviour of truck transport on Czech motorways. For Czech drivers, how truck transport behaves on Czech motorways is a symbol of this agreement and perhaps a kind of acceleration of aggression and intolerance in the sense of inability to implement the German model of really responsible driving slow cars in those lanes and speeding cars in other lanes. If we don't overcome this incompetence of ours and our age-old unwillingness, where we're almost all wondering what kind of lobbying is and not political will, then I'm sure we'll never get out of this dilemma. I can just imagine 150 on our highways, I think it works in Germany, but the trucks are making an incredible mess of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u37	Thank you and another is Mr Votava, Mr Pilný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u38	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, alcohol and alcohol and car driving parties have already fallen a number of proposals. I am already quite a memorial in this Chamber of Deputies, and perhaps for laughter and relief I remember one amendment, I think my colleague Pleva, who wanted the parishioners not to have zero tolerance because they drink the mosque wine. So you see how sometimes pretty absurd suggestions can be made. Personally, I'm in favour of zero tolerance because I think how we allow something else, so obviously from 0.5 it won't be one beer, but it'll be two beers etc. Just to lighten up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u39	Thank you and please to Mr. Pilný's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm really getting to that point for the last time. I would just like to say to Mr Koskuba through Madam President that what really surprised me about his contribution to being a doctor. And so I decided that I would be very careful in choosing my doctors, because the concept of responsibility for doctors is probably somewhere else. There's been a discussion here about church wine. Perhaps we will discuss where the responsibility in this area begins and ends with doctors. And I really wouldn't like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u41	Thank you, and please, to Mr Koskuba's microphone. Please take your word for it. But just hold on a second. I'm gonna ask my colleagues not to shout out loud because it's really very loud and it's canceling during the speech. [[Noise especially on the right.]] Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I have to respond to my previous speaker. I, among other things, have commended the culture of Mr Junek's speech. What you have just done through Madam President, my colleague, is far from cultivating. And otherwise, I can assure you that the Czech health care works only thanks to the responsibility of both doctors and nurses, and therefore you don't have to worry too much about the choice. Yes, the Czech nation should obviously be more careful in choosing its representatives, but I do not intend to restrict it and I do not intend to criticise it. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u43	Thank you and please refer to Mr Černoch's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u44	Thank you for the floor. It was said that alcohol was an extenuating circumstance. Alcohol isn't supposed to be behind the wheel, and it mustn't be a mitigating circumstance, because it's up to everyone's will whether or not they're gonna have the alcohol before they're driven. And if he causes any injuries or deaths, the penalties should be even higher. I would like to ask perhaps colleagues who served in the police -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u45	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I'll set your time for you. But the crowd at the left door is really loud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u46	There's an ex-cop in there right now... The moment we arrive - whether it's Germany, Austria, or the United States, someone rents a car there, and suddenly the drivers act much more responsible, they have much more respect for the police, they're speeding. They're strictly speeding. If this is due to the fact that the police have no such respect here in the Czech Republic, or if the penalties in the event of a violation are so low that our drivers aren't afraid of them... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u47	I thank you, and now, please, to the microphone duly registered by Mr Karamazov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u48	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to refocus my attention on the reflective vests already mentioned. I can hardly believe that we will also be seriously concerned with such bizarre measures as the new obligation for citizens to wear reflective vests. This is a new one under the Road Traffic Act, according to which every pedestrian outside the village will have to dress up reflective elements, e.g. A vest. It is hard to judge where the proponents of this proposal were inspired - perhaps in North Korea or in another dictatorship, which is fond of wearing uniforms. Anyway, it seems that the Czech Republic will once again contribute something new to the world, this time a fashion trend that even an extravagant designer would not have invented. legrace goes aside, though, if I imagine a young couple saying good-bye in the evening, he wears an orange vest, she wears a pretty sunny yellow and they both go into the dark. Perhaps when it comes to the color of a new piece of clothing, the great brother will leave the citizens with a choice. For a long time now, we have all witnessed an unfortunate trend in restricting personal freedoms to the pretext of higher security - from increasingly thorough airport controls to trying to limit opening hours to intervening in something as intimate as dressing. I remember the last regime that told us not only what to wear but also the correct length of the hairstyle. In 1989, I thought this time was definitely over. Although socialism has proven to be completely dysfunctional so many times, it still makes itself known from somewhere beyond the grave, or else. from Brussels to rid us of human dignity and transform individuals into shapeless masses. It must be clear to all reasonable people how absurd it is to deal with such matters as reflective vests, when we face real problems such as. Immigration crisis. The tide of illegal immigrants is certainly a greater threat than a nightwalk without a reflective vest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u49	I thank you and please refer to Mr Bendl's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u50	Thank you for the floor. I want to serve one example that Mr Karamazov has now pointed to. I'm from a small village that belongs to another village. We're connected by the road, not by the sidewalk. We have to go there and take all our official business and get a bus about four times a day. With this measure, mandatory by order that everyone must wear a reflective vest, in our village anyone who walks from one village to another would have to buy the reflective vest and have it with them preventively so that when he misses the bus, either he goes home through the woods, because there's not a proper path, or every citizen will have to have it with us, and I don't think it's the only case that's stuck in the pocket of the reflective vest, and be careful that someone doesn't accidentally take it, so that someone doesn't catch it. [[with a smile]] I don't think the law can solve everything. I'll use two more examples of catching people with alcohol behind the wheel, where every time the policeman behaved differently. My friend and I rode a motorcycle once. The cops stopped us, gave us a breather. I didn't inhale anything, and he inhaled 0.02. They took the kid away, they went to the Cancer Hospital with him, took his papers, and took his blood. He gave blood, and only three or four weeks later, he got his driver's license back because there was nothing in the blood. Nothing was found there, but it was three or four weeks without papers, which was a vital matter for him. And the second example. I was there when the cops stopped the person who breathed 0.1. The police officer told him to sit over there and breathe again in 20 minutes, and he had about 0.03 in his blood. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And they finally let him go. It's just when the brain is used, because the law isn't always able to handle it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u51	Thank you and please to Mr Kudela's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a beautiful day, a beautiful noon. We are discussing the Road Traffic Act, which is also an important component of which is security and security. penalties for infringement of road safety rules. In the last few years, the number of accidents on railway crossings has been increasing. The increase in the number of deaths is more than striking, because if drivers, and not only them, actually respect all the rules, the collision with the train at the railway crossing is completely excluded. [[13.30 hours]] In the vast majority of railway crossing accidents, road users who enter the railway crossing at a time when the law prohibits it are guilty. Long-term railway inspection statistics also confirm the risky behaviour of car drivers. Perhaps the Minister of Transport could report to us how the Ministry seeks to ensure that as many railway crossings as possible are accompanied by barriers. This way of solving the level crossing of the road and the track is certainly the least risky, and although there are equally important rules at the crossing with barriers, accidents occur on them, not to a very small extent and always with very serious consequences. By coincidence, this year's holiday, the government has been indirectly experiencing the consequences of one such disaster. I mean a serious car accident in Studénka. The behaviour of both drivers and pedestrians at the railway crossing not only regulates the law but also results from common sense. The law also remembers sanctions imposed if a road user does not behave according to common sense and law. The current regulation says that a fine of up to CZK 3,000 and a ban on activities of less than six months may be imposed on those who repeatedly commit such an offence within a period of 12 months. Therefore, the government comes with an amendment and proposes that a fine from CZK two and a half to CZK five thousand should be imposed for the violation of the entrance at the time it is prohibited. Those who have committed an offence of crossing the railway crossing at a time when it is prohibited shall be prohibited from one month to six months if they do so more than twice or more times since one year. Do we still have to wait for something to happen? [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Czech television had a report on how many times drivers crossed the railway crossing, even though they had to see red light flashing, the signal ringing, they also showed cases where the driver clicked through the barriers. Small guilt must be punished now, it is really preventive and educational. A fine of two and a half, three thousand or five thousand crowns is really nothing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u53	Ambassador, I am so sorry. Again, I call on colleagues on the left to lower their voices so that you do not have to shout them out. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u54	I'll take that as my colleague Kalousek right from the start. [[Glee in the hall.]] Little guilt needs to be punished now. That's preventive and educational. Indeed, the fine of CZK 5,000 is nothing compared to the dangers and dangers of the lives and property of those at risk. Therefore, I suggest that, for an offence of crossing the railway crossing at a time when this is prohibited, a ban on activities ranging from one month to six months should also be granted in addition to the fine. My colleague Bendl here said that the gentleman had been without a driver's license for several days before it proved unjustified. Detaining a driver's license for one month isn't a threat to anyone. And I think it's going to be extremely educational. He's gonna take a few days off, and basically, before he recovers, that one month will pass. [[Glee in the hall.]] Small offenses need to be punished now, and they're all gonna realize if they're really gonna go to the railroad crossing and take that risk. A month without a driver's license is really not such a serious punishment. And next to that, I want to draw attention to one of the bad guys. The sanctions work in education and there is some part of the drivers, I do not know exactly the statistics on how big, who ignore road rules and the rules of decent behaviour and their behaviour on the roads threaten other participants, and there is no meter on them today. I found a guide on the Internet to avoid administrative proceedings. Very practical and I believe a functional meter. Receive subpoenas on the last day of the deadline, answer the last day of the deadline, apologize several times for medical reasons, use medical reports to do this, then you can come to one proceedings and propose the execution of as much evidence as possible, once an agent comes to you without proper full authority, and in such a way the administrative proceedings can be extended for so long, until in the end the offence will not be discussed at all. These offences are also discussed in such a way in cases where, in Ostrava in particular, the driver crashed into a tram and was in such a condition that he was unable to properly say his name, but he appealed for the bias of the official who investigated the offence, discussed it in administrative proceedings, appealed to the Ministry of Transport because the tram into which he crashed was the city of Ostrava, thus the entire city magistrate is biased in his case. In this way, he effectively avoided administrative proceedings. So in my second amendment, which I am going to apply to, I propose that police officers be entitled to withdraw a driving licence in respect of offences imposed on them for a period of more than six months. And I believe the trespassers will be happy to come to the administrative proceedings. I cut it in half.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u55	Thank you. Next in line, please, and that is Mr Kolovratník. Before I give you my word, I'm going to ask that, if they have anything to say to each other, they do it in the lobby. We'll wait for him to calm down and continue. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u56	We're in a hurry, but I'll be patient. Colleagues and colleagues, we still have the ambition to handle this law, the second reading, where we are not voting, until the end of today's day. I'm gonna try to help, and I'm gonna be really brief. I promised a gradual response from the rapporteur to your proposals. Now, I could take it from the back, as you served it. Mr Petr Kudela: proposals 28, 21, 29, 31 - we will certainly not be able to incline to them. Firstly, it must be said that the entry to the railway crossing is already a criminal offence of general danger today, and although I understand the motivation of the accident in Studénka, and that would probably be better specified for me by the Minister, the Ministry is dedicated to it, it will exert pressure on SŽDC, so that the maximum crossings are really off-level. It is discussed about infrared laser sensors and so on and so on. With the first amendment, I understand the motivation of my colleague. He comes from northern Moravia and the Moravian-Silesian Region himself proposed this in January in print 377, where the government issued a clear dissenting position and we as the House rejected this proposal at first reading. The point here is that we would really deny drivers and citizens the right to a fair trial. It can be understood in alcohol, when the driver apparently drives under the influence and is dangerous, but at the moment when the suspect is at high speed and so on, so immediately withdraw his driver's license, it is symbolic to send him into custody without obtaining the legal power of judgment, because he might do something. I don't think it's good, though I understand the arguments about delaying and avoiding administrative proceedings. [[13.40 hours]] Then I noticed about a hint of an anonation by my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party about the 150th. She is mentioned twice in Ivan Adamec's amendments. I think it'll be explained. I don't even think the second design of 2963 makes any sense to me. I think it is wrong, because the colleague suggests inserting it into Section 18 para. 7 after the words "riding tracks" the words "and on the highway." I've read that section several times, and there are no words in it that say "railways." But in the 2831 proposal, Adamec actually tries again in a different way according to § 18 para. 3 possibility to increase the media-interesting speed of 150 km/h in certain sections. Here, let me just remind you that the House has finally taken a stand for the Senate and for President Zeman's already announced opinion, and I believe that our position will remain consistent. Now I'm a little afraid to respond to Mr Junek, the alcohol, so I don't start another series of factual remarks. I will really be brief, and I will limit myself to the fact that statistics speak clearly about 30% of the total number of accidents in cyclists due to alcohol. And one number that didn't come up was six dead last year. Walkers were nothing. Intoxicated walkers caused 193 accidents with no killings. With the cyclists, it was six dead. I think this number speaks for itself. Really, coworkers, colleagues, please let us take our heads in this place and not change anything and stay on the setup as it is. Thank you at this moment and I look forward to other contributions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u57	Thank you and please to the microphone with the de facto Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u58	Thank you for the floor. I am putting forward a procedural proposal to discuss this point today, and I call on everyone to present their contributions without unnecessary red tape, only the essential things to be done as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u59	Thank you. You made this as a procedural proposal. I don't think it's necessary to vote because the House's official meeting is within 19 hours. But if you insist, I'll put it to a vote. [[Part of the Members are asking for a vote, part of the Members say it is unnecessary to vote on it.]] Okay. I assume it's on the basis of the club president's agreement. So we'll continue over 14 hours. [[A commotion in the hall.]] I asked Mr. Speaker if he wanted to vote. Of course I'm voting. He wants it. Okay. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. I'll check you all out. I'd like you to sign up with your cards again. I am opening the vote on the procedural motion to negotiate before the end of the discussion of this point even after 14 o'clock. Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 91, to which 93 are registered, for 58, against 8. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will continue to discuss this point. [[Big noise in the hall. Members stand in a noose.]] Mr. Korte's microphone, please. Before I give him my word, however, I will ask the House to keep it down. Calm down, please. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u60	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, for it is getting late. I'm afraid that the issues associated with the operation of wheelchairs called segway most of you, members of this honourable congregation, perceive how -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u61	Mr. Ambassador, I am very sorry, I am very sorry to do this, and I must interrupt you again, and please all colleagues, if they have something to say to each other to do in the lobby, so that we can discuss this point as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u62	Madam President, I have a rather powerful voice. I can raise it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u63	It's okay. I've already arranged order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u64	I mean that most of you may see the issue of the traffic of the segway carriages as purely Prague and only Prague 1, as you are meeting them there, in the historical centre here in Malá Strana. It is clear, however, that the pavements for the operation of these wheelchairs are not dimensioned and represent a serious threat to other road users, especially to mothers with strollers or disabled persons. I remind you, we have Jaroslav Ježek School for the visually impaired here on Lesser Town in Loretánská Street. The Conservatory of Jan Deyl and the Secondary School for the Visually Disabilized are located on Maltese Square. Of course, these people, who move here in increased numbers, are at first priority because they simply can't even hear them in the streets when confronted with these wheelchairs. It seems that this is a problem exclusively for Prague 1, it seems wrong, because the price of these devices is falling sharply, and I am not talking about how much Chinese counterfeits are going to cost. At the beginning of this week I was in Český Krumlov. When I observed a tourist clientele that is obviously higher in economic terms and therefore more demanding, unfortunately, I can imagine before my mental eyes that this plague will spread there too soon. Somewhere else, if necessary. Then you'll notice, and it'll be too late. That is why František Laudát and I decided that due to this potential expansion it is necessary to solve the matter systemically and comprehensively. Our joint amendment includes five points. I will name them and justify them to you in a nutshell. The first point is the definition of this wheelchair in Section 2. She was originally there, and the text of the law is working with her, but during the legislative process she wanted to disappear somehow, so we're returning her. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Secondly, we add to the listed roads, where these wheelchairs can move, complement pedestrian and residential areas, so that we expand and refine the... Madam President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u65	I can hear it, but I see a colleague of the Sklenák trying to calm the crowd down. And if he doesn't, we'll just wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u66	It's useless. It's useless. It's useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u67	Like, you really can't hear a damn thing. You don't realize... It's not in vain. You may proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u68	Thank you. At the same time, we also add to the next paragraph, where it is prohibited to endanger pedestrians or cyclists, also those pedestrians and residential areas. This paragraph seems a little strange to me, because it was thought of as a result, so it means that outside the listed zones they can endanger cyclists or pedestrians. But I'm based on the proposal. Point 3 is absolutely crucial and crucial. It allows the municipality to define places where traffic will be prohibited. In other words, it means the possibility of declaring a zone ban based on the principle that municipalities are better able to assess local conditions and respond adequately to them than with all due respect from the Ministry. This is followed by the last two points, i.e. the obligation of the municipality to mark these sites with a generally understandable mark so that it is also understandable for non-English-speaking ones. Who you've been going through the Little Party lately, through the Kampa, you know there's a sign like that. I'm a native speaker, but I don't understand her. And then the last of our amendments is an exception to the ban on zone entry for the Police of the Czech Republic and the municipal police. I must say that these proposals have been discussed with the appellant and are in line with the philosophy of this amendment, because they are based on the intention, from the principle stated in the explanatory memorandum, to provide municipalities with the opportunity to respond to local problems and, at the same time, they are important tools for strengthening road safety. These proposals are included in the system. I will join them in a detailed debate. [[13.50 hours]] Just to the edge. I found the interesting word retroreflective vest or retroreflective vest materials. Retroreflective materials, it's a very difficult word, and I'll admit I'm a little confused about it. It's the word of Latin origin. Reflecto means bending, turning, re - back. How would I translate retro reflecto I don't know, I'm turning around, bending back, backwards. Or I'm turning, bending back. I wonder whose clever mind this term was born in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u69	Thank you and please take the next step in the debate and this is Mr Berkovec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u70	Thank you. Madam Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant afternoon. Allow me a few words on my amendment to the Parliament's press, 471. If I ask you a question now, all of you, whether it's allowed to pass at intersections, many of you will answer that. If I ask you whether it is forbidden to pass at our intersections, many of you will also answer yes. Both groups are basically right. It is because in our legal standard, which deals with traffic on roads, as amended by Act No. 361/2000 Coll., there are two conflicting provisions, § 17 and § 21, which lead to objective legal insolvability of situations where the question is simply who caused the accident of the driver who turns and overtakes. Overtaking cars, which usually go faster, crash very often into cars that turn and which go slower. Let me give you another little retrospective. It's 2009, when it's already been discussed in this House. It is a comment on paragraph 6 of the House's press 679. Allow me to quote: The removal of exemptions from the ban on overtaking at a crossroads and in close proximity to it is motivated by the application of a clear rule for driver behaviour at a crossroads. Compliance with the conditions for the application of exemptions from overtaking in accordance with existing § 17 (5) and (5) respectively. Point 5 (2) to (4), according to experience, it is difficult to prove and the offences in question are one of the most frequently postponed in administrative proceedings. Thus, instead of the existing text of Section 17, it is necessary to find such a wording of the legal provision that the danger is significantly reduced, there will be only accidents from disregarding the prohibition and, at the same time, to completely eliminate the legal irresolvability and not to complicate the operation where there is no danger in question. Of course, this isn't just about identifying the culprit, it's about avoiding accidents. When I take it from a philosophical point of view, turning and overtaking is actually a mutual contradiction. In a conflicting state. I would like to compare this to, for example, putting two trains on the same track when driving traffic on railroads. Just one more trip to the past. It's November 8, 1968, so-called. The Vienna Convention, then Czechoslovakia, is its signatory, later the Czech Republic, and which - again I quote: "In Article 11 Overtaking and driving in the currents explicitly gives the right option to modify the rule on overtaking at intersections, releasing the ban on overtaking at intersections." I believe that by adopting an amendment, which I will specify in a detailed debate, we will prevent drivers from being unclear, so that their consideration and conduct at the intersection is quite clear. Let me add that this proposal was preceded by consultation at the legislative department of the Ministry of Transport, consultation with the Faculty of Transport of the Czech Technical University, with the Institute of Judicial Knowledge and also with the master, with whom I have long cooperated and whom I greatly appreciate, it is Professor Associate Engineer Jindřich Šachl, CSc, and also my modest experience in cooperation with Mobility Club as a signatory of the European Charter of Road Safety and Practice since 1993 when I have devoted myself to this mobility of road safety. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your precious attention, I wish you good directions, and I mean the ways in which you can safely reach your destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u71	Thank you and please take the next step, and that is Mr Novotný. Mr Koubek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u72	Colleagues and colleagues, we are still in the general debate, so I will also try to hear the call for briefness. I will first follow up on colleagues who, from an ideal point of view, assessed the idea of reflective vests as an obligation for pedestrians, if they find themselves in a situation that they move in an area outside the village where there is no public lighting. I want to report here that this relevant paragraph, which, as many other acts of today's government coalition, wants to invite us to a beautiful new world, where everything will be absolutely perfect, where everyone will behave perfectly and responsibly, only it will not be possible to live in it at all, and the world is beyond reality and beyond the fullability of the conditions of something that we could actually implement in real life, so I just want to make it clear here that my colleague Adamec, who is duly excused today and I represent here at the moment, has prepared an amendment that you have in the House document under number 2928 and which is a simple measure from this law, the relevant paragraph, which sets this new obligation, so he removes it from it. As has been announced here, your great joy is certainly returned to us at the same time on the table and the issue of the highest allowed speed on the exceptional, selected, carefully assessed sections of the Czech motorways. I will no longer make any fundamental reasoning for this proposal by my colleague Adamec, but I will just comment on this important technical aspect, which concerns how the relevant proposal, which you have in the Houses of Documents under two figures - one is number 2831 and the other is House document 2963. So what is it, why are there two? A colleague of mine, Mr Kolovratník, pointed out here a moment ago that when he was looking, I suppose, on the Internet, into some version of the law, he did not find the words he followed in the relevant section. We have indeed found ourselves in a situation where we have already signed a new text on the Internet in the days when you will find, in the vast majority of cases, some version of the law, but the President has already signed a new text at a time that can be counted for hours, so he Adamec basically prepared two proposals - the old version and the new version. In order to avoid any legislative doubt, both of them do the same, but they deal with the situation from the point of view of legislation at different times, then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to the two figures of these amendments, so that legislation can solve this problem. I guess there's already been so much argument and opinion about this that I'm not going to expand on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u73	Thank you. And I just have a question for Mr Kučera whether he is applying for a point of fact or for a debate. For the debate, thank you. So please, with the factual remark of Mr Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u74	Thank you. Now it's going to be a really factual point. I believe I will not provoke another reaction. There is talk of these reflective vests, so I just want to point out - the word vest is not used at all in this design. They're reflective or retroreflective elements. They're talking about the elements, and they mean the tapes on the jacket, on the pants. There's no way in hell you're wearing a vest. It's not there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u75	I thank Mr Koubek, duly signed up for the debate, and then Mr Kučera. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u76	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me only two things about this law. First. I have read this in detail, particularly on a matter relating to segways, which is generally a matter which worries a lot of Prague and its historical centre. I would like to draw attention to a explanatory note that I certainly cannot identify with. Let me quote a page. 32: "The pedestrians as major users of pavements and pedestrian zones in cities and municipalities are a group of potentially at risk of driving segway users on pavements/hunting zones at risk of collision and injury. Although, according to the available information, no accident or similar incident has yet occurred, e.g. in the territory of larger cities or tourist destinations, complaints about users of carriages Segway... etc.' I would like to argue, although I have no statistics in my hand, but even if we are discussing such a fundamental law - and I thank the plaintiffs that they are counting on restrictions or even defining how we will have segway in the law - so that we do not fool ourselves by not having any injuries. On the one hand, when I entered it in Google, you can find cases of doctors who gave interviews, from the Hospital to František, and so on, how they treat injuries caused by segway. That means, let's just not underestimate it. I can't argue with that, but if these cases aren't recorded, maybe this should have been extended and explained somehow in the explanatory report. That's the first thing. Second thing. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for the amendment that I have tabled. It's about segways. I personally believe that there is a need to find some balance between pedestrians and segways. I don't want to be completely on the level that we should totally ban segway. I very much appreciate Mr Korte and Mr Laudát's amendment to give municipalities the opportunity to adjust the operation of segways in their territories, respectively. the urban parts. Personally, I would recommend one more thing concerning the amendment I am making, and that is that the person on the passenger transporter should have a mandatory warning reflective vest. Now I mean the vest, I don't mean the retroactive material, I mean just some strip. I'm based on general experience. If you walk down the street or take a car, if you see groups of schoolchildren wearing reflective vests, you will naturally notice. You just suddenly see a group of people in reflective vests in the distance, a group that you might normally overlook not just the height of those schoolchildren, but it's just a bunch of reflective colors that you see in the distance. I think, given the fact that it is written correctly throughout the law, the segway concerns rather tourists and concerns mass groups, so I think it is for some kind of warning to one another that the pedestrian and the like will suddenly see this group of segwayists. I give consideration to this amendment. It is not financially demanding for anyone and certainly not for segway users. If the Ministry of Transport plans an information campaign in connection with the pedestrian obligation to wear reflex or retroreflective materials, then it is certainly not a problem to include in this campaign the obligation for segway users to use these reflective vests. Of course, it wouldn't be about an integrated rescue system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u77	Thank you, and please, with the de facto minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, through Madam President, would like to respond to Mr Koubek. He's right about one thing. The explanatory note says we're not registering any collisions of segways with pedestrians. It is meant that we have not officially received such reports from the police. On the other hand, I have to say that I have received information from the Hospital in František that these accidents record quite a lot and some of them are serious. I apologize for the inaccuracies. The truth is, such accidents are and are proven. Otherwise, we do not have a major problem with marking segwayists with reflective elements or vests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u79	Thank you and please to Mr Kučera's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u80	Thank you for the floor. I have one thing to say here. Here in this law we also deal with the individualities quite purposefully towards the very ones of the segway. Of course, I agree with that and I support it. I know the proposal is there, and it's important. However, I would like to point out that the issue of restricting these types of different wheelchairs and vehicles cannot be narrowed down to segway wheelchairs. I'm already here, I don't mean in the House, but I've already warned somewhere that the issue is quite similar, for example, in our national parks, where they try to limit the use of bicycles, wheels and scooters with an internal combustion engine. The possibility of current legislation, the current law, does not allow them to do so. I know that, for example, in the Krkonoše National Park there are cycle paths where bicycles are allowed, there is logically also the entrance of electric bicycles, but according to current legislation, scooters with petrol combustion engine can therefore also be allowed there, which is of course quite badly for national parks and of course the national park administration is trying to limit it. The users of those scooters with a petrol internal combustion engine are referring to the Road Traffic Act, where, according to the valid version, motor scooters are considered to be a motor vehicle, as a motor vehicle is, among other things, a non-combustible vehicle powered by its own propulsion unit. That's a national park argument. However, the counterargument sounds that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u81	I'm sorry, colleague - now it's a crowd in front of the speaker's desk. Thank you for understanding. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u82	However, scooter users with an internal combustion engine refer to the Engineering Testing Institute certificate, which allegedly confirms the fulfilment of all points. It says: "The bike may be equipped with an additional auxiliary motor if the original character of the bicycle continues to be maintained, the auxiliary motor will adequately meet the conditions, its power will not exceed 1 kilowatt and, if an internal combustion engine is used, it will not have an engine whose cylinder capacity is greater than 50 cubic centimeters, the maximum design speed will not exceed 25 kilometers per hour... etc.' This means that the scooter falls more or less within this category, and if the vehicle meets all of the above requirements, it shall continue to be considered as a bicycle for the purposes of this decree. This means that the real administration of national parks does not have the possibility to limit them in any way. There is also talk of the decree that bicycles with pedals, which are equipped with an auxiliary electric motor, are further understood as bicycles with pedals. What I'd like to point out here. I know that we will probably not be able to do this in this amendment, but the possible modification of this amendment would probably be quite difficult if we made amendments to it. However, I would like to point out that there is a certain uncertainty both in the law and in the decree. These cases will continue to multiply as these types of wheelchairs or vehicles will increase. The problem will not only be in national parks, but will probably also be in some special purpose facilities, in some municipalities. Indeed, both self-government and government should be able to regulate these various wheelchairs if necessary. [[14.10 hours]] This case, a specific case in national parks, I will try to address in the amendment to Law 114, which is now in the House, that is to say the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, where this possibility is offered. But that only solves the internal combustion engines in national parks. It's not gonna work out in general. This means that I would like to call on the Ministry of Transport at this point in time to deal with this topic for the future, and in the next amendment to the Act on Traffic on the Road, it has come up with a proposal that will allow these various vehicles to regulate in general, not only purposefully by some amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have one more factual remark from Mr Zahradník. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u84	Madam President, thank you for the floor. The colleague mentioned the operation of motor equipment in the National Parks of Šumava. I just want to point out that there is an activity in Šumava National Park that operates electric wheels, electric scooters, electric small cars that are powered from a smart energy point near Hartmanic. The Committee on the Environment organises a seminar here in the House in room 205 on 5 November this year, where, among other things, the representative of this activity operating these electric wheels will also perform. The name of the seminar is Decentralized Energy. And I repeat, it takes place on November 5th at 13:00 in room 205 here in our House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u85	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u86	I'm sorry, but only for a very short time for a fellow Zahradník. I was talking about motor scooters in the National Park Krkonoše. This is not the problem with electric bicycles and electric wheels, but it is with an internal combustion engine drive and the impossibility to separate these two groups from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u87	Thank you. Since no one else is going into the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiff if he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. Then the rapporteur? Not either. I am opening up a detailed debate and I have the first Mr Junek to join it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u88	Thank you for the floor. So I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is inserted under number 2802 in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u89	Yes, thank you. Mr Kudela's microphone, Mr Kolovratník will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u90	I'm applying to my two amendments, which are inserted under one number in the system, namely 2931. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u91	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník, please prepare Mr Huml. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u92	Colleagues, colleagues, I am applying to my four amendments. The first is in the system under number 2815, it is the introduction of a lane for cyclists, then 2817 - the solution to remove obstacles on motorways, then 2924 - the introduction or tightening of responsibility for cargo on senders. And the last amendment I'm applying to has number 2926, which will newly propose the waiver of the licence holder's obligation to notify the change of residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u93	Thank you. Mr Huml microphone, Mr Korte will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u94	Well, hello again. I am applying to my amendment, or two, which I have under number 2797. A brief explanation only. We were talking about the reflective tapes or the vests. The fact that people are confused, Minister, is because you haven't described how big it should be. If I have it on my button, I'm basically doing it. So I've made it clear to you, and I think that my proposal is still talking about the fact that the battery, the light, is more than a reflected light. That's a first. And the second proposal is that when it's written in the transport order that it's an obligation to stick to the bus, we have to impose obligations by law, not in transport regulations that sometimes aren't even on those buses. It is a requirement for public transport drivers to make a passenger who travels on a bus where he can become, so as to determine the obligation to stick while driving. And the law alone can impose obligations on people. So I think both of these proposals could be accepted by the Department of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u95	Thank you. Mr Korte's microphone, Mr Čihák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u96	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to the amendments that I tabled in the general debate. In the system they are introduced under number 2902 and I take advantage of this opportunity to correct the printing error. Please at paragraph 24, where I add paragraph 7 to Section 60a. It is an exemption from the ban on the Police of the Czech Republic, so that the ban does not apply to - the text says - the Police of the Czech Republic, is of course to be there the police, not the shelves (?). Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u97	Thank you. Mr Čihák's microphone, Mr Novotný will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u98	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is listed under number 2964 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u99	Thank you. Mr Novotný's microphone, Mr Berkovec and Mr Kudela will be ready after. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u100	My colleague and colleagues, following what I said in the general debate, I refer to the amendment made by my colleague Adamec, who is in the system under the number of House document 2963 and relates to the retro-reflective elements, and then to the two amendments of the same author, which are in the system under the numbers 2831 and 2928 and relate to the speed of 150 kilometres on the motorway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u101	Yes, thank you. I would like to see Mr Berkovec's microphone, Mr Kudela will be prepared. Mr Kudela is withdrawing his application for a detailed debate. Yes, very well, and it's registered by Mr Koubek. Very well, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u102	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, I am signing up for my amendment to House Press 471, which has been inserted into the system under the number of House Document 2809. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u103	Thank you and please to Mr Koubek's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u104	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I am signing up for my amendment, with which I have spoken and justified in the general debate. It is under number 2966 and I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for considering it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-006-020.u105	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case; I am ending the debate in detail. I ask the plaintiff if he is interested in the final word. It is not so, nor is the rapporteur. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Before I interrupt the meeting, allow me to load my apologies, Mr Farský, who apologizes for today's meeting from 14:00 for family reasons, Minister Jurečka from 13.45 for departmental reasons, from 13.30 for family reasons Mr Karel Fiedler, from 13.15 for personal reasons Mr Jiří Štětina, Mrs Válková apologizes from 12.30 to the end of today's meeting day, and Mr Vácha apologizes for today's illness. At this point, I'm interrupting the 33rd meeting until October 20th, when we'll meet at 14 o'clock. Thank you for your cooperation and have a nice weekend.
