ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-003-150.u1	150. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the work holiday programme signed in Jerusalem on 8 June 2015 /German press 527/ - first reading Here too, I ask that the opening words be given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-003-150.u2	Thank you. I wish you one more good day. So what's a work vacation agreement? There is quite a simple thing under the name that young people on both sides, young Izraelec as well as young Čech, will be able to, if we conclude this agreement, visit the other country and travel there, get to know the country and work there within a year. And, of course, because they're gonna be able to work there, they're gonna be able to make money for that year's stay. This is a thing that has already worked out very well with Canada, with New Zealand, we're trying with Korea, it's just getting going. I can tell you that it works perfectly with Canada and New Zealand. There is great interest on both sides, on ours and our partners. So we are considering similar agreements with Australia, a similar agreement with Japan, and at this moment, just before the signature of the agreement with Chile. In fact, it always assumes that on both sides there are young people between the ages of 18 and 30 who are interested in staying in the other country for a year, studying and also having the opportunity to work. So it's actually kind of a thing that I find very sympathetic. And I can guarantee you that both on the Israeli side and on the Czech side we will certainly find a large number of young people who will be happy to use it, just like in the case of Canada and Australia. So I am pleased that on my last visit to Israel, or in the penultimate, we found that there is an interest on both sides to enable these young people. Each side considers it to be a large number of those who will take advantage of it. One might say that among the young Izraelec there is an interest in getting to know the Czech Republic and young Čech there is a great interest in getting to know Israel. And a little bit more thorough, because when you go there for a few days, it's not like you have a chance to stay there for a year. So I ask Parliament to allow this opportunity for young people on both sides in this case, also for those living in Israel and the Czech Republic. And if I succeed, I'll present you with other contracts with those countries I've already suggested here. So here's the obvious thing, and it's simple, this is the first reading, and I think it might also succeed in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-003-150.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, when Mr Václav Zemek will speak for the apologized Member, Robin Böhnisch. Before that happens, however, we will have to vote for this. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is in favour of Václav Zemek as rapporteur for the first reading, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 90; 137 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 117, against 1. The motion has been accepted, and I will ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-003-150.u4	Thank you for the word and the confidence shown. I will reward myself by being brief. The minister basically described it here. These are exchange stays, approval of exchange stays. Similar contracts already exist, e.g. with New Zealand, as has already been said here, with Canada, so I see no reason to block this House's press. I recommend that he be assigned to the Foreign Committee for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-003-150.u5	Thank you. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I see no one, in which case I end the general debate. I refer to the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Would you like some? It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 91. 138 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 125, against none. I note that the proposal has been approved and this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I'm done discussing this point. I'll read the note that came to me. Today from 10.40 pm cancels today's apology from the meeting of Mr Jiří Koskuba and will be present. Today from 14.30 to 15.15 o'clock due to other work obligations, Mr Petr Kořenek apologizes. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
