ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 36th session of the Chamber of Deputies. Please sign up with your ID cards. We'll continue with the next items on the approved agenda. But first, I'll read an apology. Minister Chovanec apologizes today from 12.30 to the end of the day. The first with priority right, before we discuss the individual items of the meeting, is Mr. Chairman of the KSČM MP Pavel Kováčik. After him, the Minister of Defence. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-000-000.u2	Mr President, I had a bit of a late light on, but still. I mean, there's a light under the microphone. Madames and gentlemen, I must join, although I do not like to join the President of the ODS, Stanjur, because for the tape screen, it must be said that there was no agreement between the club presidents on the interruption by Friday, 8 January, because it was not discussed with me in this way and this was not consulted. There were different scenarios. None of those scenarios, which were discussed between us and the presidents of the MPs, sounded like an interruption until Friday, the less until Friday, 8 January. [[37th Meeting]] That's the first thing. [[Response to Mr Stanjura's speech before the 37th meeting on 18. 12:30.]] Second thing. I have to say, lately, there's been an extreme violation of virtually any deal that's been made. I am talking about an agreement on the schedule for the first half, where we are on the Organising Committee, as far as I know, all the MPs or representatives of all the MPs, voted that the week of Friday, 8 January, will be a week for the MPs. As is known, the parliamentary week is intended for parliamentary activities other than the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, interrupted or, where appropriate, exceptional. I also heard that there was an emergency meeting going on Friday the eighth, and I think it's a bad year to start by saying that the agreement that applies to all the clubs here, because everyone voted in favour of it on the Organizing Committee, is about to break the first week of the new year in this way. It's not our fault the program's dragging. It is not our fault that the current government coalition is building its own proposals. It is not our fault that, instead of trying to make a deal, the government coalition is trying to push things through almost the way of the dignitaries. I think it would be good for us to start thinking about it, too, and I turn again to colleagues and colleagues of government Members and Members, as well as to ministers and ministers and the Prime Minister, to start thinking about a change of style. Some things from the past, true, weren't entirely kosher. This has also been discussed today. But some things would be good to re-enact, for example, the fact that when I am interested in doing something well, perfect, successfully discussed, I will come to the relevant parliamentary club, explain my position and act, or at least to the relevant representatives of the parliamentary clubs. That's not happening here, or at least I didn't notice too much. True, there have been isolated cases, but in these decisive matters, the government coalition is really trying to push through these things at almost any cost. I can think of anything about ways, and it's nothing nice, the ways in which the right-wing opposition, for example, progresses in obstruction. Whether these are things I agree with in a matter of fact or not. [[12.50 hours]] But one thing's for sure. In a number of cases, this delay could have been prevented if we had more respect for each other if we had remembered that each party represented in this Chamber of Deputies has its constituents, whose interests are here to represent and also to represent. Representing the interests of voters is not that we should kick each other's ankles, smash each other's feet, wash the stairs and all that. It may be a little bit in the conscience, but also in the fact that citizens expect us to do some work here, too. Now for the other thing. It is a long tradition that the KSČM parliamentary club will prepare a small gift for you on the occasion of the end of the old year and the beginning of the new year. Yes, it's a calendar again, and it's a gift over another suitable one. [[He's showing the table calendar.]] Please note the timetable so that when deciding which week we will act, in which week we leave Members and Members to do their work in the regions, you will remember that an agreement has been made and that it is well respected. I want to thank you from this place despite everything that's been going on here for being here together all year. True, sometimes in very hard fights, but after all, we're here in the same workplace. Allow me also to thank the members of the Chamber of Deputies' staff, to thank the protection service, to thank the medical service, last time I forgot, and I got well exclaimed, and to all those who were able to work here for the whole year honestly. I wish, on behalf of the KSČM MEP, everyone a peaceful and peaceful Christmas, and I wish everyone a happy new year, in addition to the health that is most important, to be satisfied with their lives and their loved ones, so that no one can piss them off too much as possible and that the stupidity of human beings is far from avoiding them. Thank you. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-000-000.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. Sorry, Mr President, first of all, the Minister of Defence is registered with priority rights, after whom President Laudát. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like to ask a favor, for additional inclusion on the agenda of this meeting following: Amendment of the Government Resolution of 20 October 2014 number 850 to the proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations between 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017, House press number 664, as the first item in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-000-000.u5	So that is the draft agenda for the meeting, which I will then vote on. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-000-000.u6	Thank you. I'm sorry it was a little distorted here... We agreed today, the political parties, that we interrupt the EET meeting at half-one, there's going to be a rollover to the new meeting, there's only one point, that's the missions that the minister here has just read. That's what we're gonna do. Given that this is a mission, we will support the resolution so that it can go through. I'm sorry you're gonna make a deal after that. This is completely unnecessary during the parliamentary week, and I call on you in some way to consider whether we will actually begin with this very unfortunate point on the eighth. Otherwise, I must point out that I am very sorry, I suggested on Tuesday at the Gremium that we do not discuss this controversial topic on Friday in order to discuss real priorities, some points such as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marksová, some points burning from the point of view of drawing European subsidies to the Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek, so that, of course, military missions are discussed, that we withdraw the veto, we will not veto it. Well, it only ended on missions. I am very sorry that you prefer political charade, the stupidity you want to harass businessmen, not that. Don't tell me, and please let the absent minister Babiš keep the political agony as we paralyze the House. We don't agree with one single point. You are not able to set priorities, the real priorities of this country, and you will always keep these purely political issues at the end when you are done with what this country needs, what must be fulfilled both inside and towards the European Union from the point of view of functioning. I'm sorry. Otherwise, of course, I'm not happy for you for vánoce. I suppose we'll all meet on Tuesday, so I'll wish you there on Tuesday. That's all I'm saying. It's your decision about the meeting, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-000-000.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm asking if anyone else is applying to the agenda or with priority rights. It's not like that. Here was the motion made by Minister of Defense Martin Stropnický to include paragraph 224 as today's first fixed point. I will vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of accepting this proposal, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 339, which is registered by 148 Members, for 122, against 23. The motion was accepted. So we're going to be dealing with this point.
