ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u1	131. Information of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic on the Denis a David Michalákův case in Norway on the basis of resolution No. 545 Chamber of Deputies of 9. 12. 2014 /Household document 1981/ The information is part of the House document 1981, which was delivered to you on 25 February of this year. I now ask the plaintiff of this point, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, to take the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech I would like to thank Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka for his helpful and factual approach and the steps he has taken as Prime Minister to help the Czech family. At the same time, I would like to thank all of you who, in December, allowed and supported the motion for a resolution on the basis of which the government began to take action to discuss the children held in Norway in the House. The development of events shows that we have made the right decision and that without the help of the state and Czech diplomacy, it would almost be impossible for children to ever return home to their own family. Through the Government, we have asked the Kingdom of Norway a few simple and understandable questions about our own Czech citizens. The content of the report you have before you, you have all received it in printed form, can be summarised in a single sentence: Norway has not answered these questions enough. Therefore, I will not comment much on the report you have received, only to draw attention to one particular error that the report contains. It says that the issue of adopting both boys was not raised by the Norwegian Social Office Barnevern. The opposite is true. I can confirm this as a direct participant in a meeting at a local office in Nedre Eiker, to which I was personally present on 20 January. Officials not only included parental rights waivers on the agenda in January, but even threatened mommy directly in connection with the application for both boys' passports. If the mother does not issue passports, they will put the children into adoption so that they can issue Norwegian passports to them. This is how Norwegian officials in charge of the case think. I draw attention to the fact that by our December vote and the steps that we have subsequently taken, we have prevented the family from losing children irreversibly. In other words, without a House resolution, without active government action and without public pressure, both children today would most likely be adopted in Norwegian families. And apparently each in a different one. What did the visit to the Director of the Office for International Child Protection in Norway bring? Unfortunately, the transfer did not bring a visit to the Director of the Office for International Child Protection Zdeněk Kapitán in Norway. The only outcome was the assurance that children would not be adopted, and the vague promise of teaching Czech for both boys. In this context, I would like to point out that the native mother tongue of both children was up to three, resp. five years of the age of Czech and Norwegian children were taught only in kindergarten. The opportunity to speak Czech should therefore give children social workers a long time ago. In practice, the opposite was done and children were not allowed to speak Czech or their own mother.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u3	I'm very sorry, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. We're dealing with the specific fate of a few people here. I beg your respect for the fate of these people, and I beg your peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u4	Thank you. I will also allow myself to speculate that the Czech language, which Norwegian foster parents did not understand, could have been the reason why children were divided into different families and grew apart, even though no Norwegian court has ever ruled on it. As you probably already know, only recently was Eva Michaláková's replacement meeting with children, because last year, in violation of Barnevern's decision, she was allowed to visit her children only once. I consider the terms of the meeting to be humiliating and almost shocking. maminka was under police supervision, in the room was in conflict with the January agreement also the foster parents were present, and only on the spot did Mother know that she would see only one of the sons without any obvious reasons. I find such an act by the Norwegian authorities completely unacceptable. Among other things, there is concern that the real concern of the Norwegian Child Welfare Office is not the closure of biological families and the preservation of children's close relationship with their parents and family, but rather their permanent separation and distancement for the benefit of foster families. Now Barnevern even informed Mrs. Michaláková that the meeting with Denis will not take place this year. That's the last piece of information we have so far. Interestingly, according to Barnevern, Denis has a suspicion not only of his mother but also of Barnevern officials. It testifies to his fear of all and all that the child apparently lives in as a result of the removal. [[18.10 hours]] In this context, I would like to inform you that the Czech Republic is not the only island in Europe where the Norwegian Social Office's work is subject to harsh criticism in relation to the case of its own citizens. I am informed that major protests are currently taking place e.g. in Lithuania, which solves cases of several of its families. Currently, the case of a seven-year-old boy who volunteered to flee from Norwegian foster parents to his relatives in Lithuania, but was returned from neighboring Sweden to Norway without family being informed of where the boy is. In light of this and other cases, the case of the Michalákův family in Norway is therefore not exceptional. I've got more cases here. Boy Edmund, Lithuania, 2.5 years old. His mother, Julia Daiva, was already interested in Barnevern during pregnancy because, as a result of the trauma suffered, she visited a psychologist. Edmund was taken away in five months. Neglecting care has not been proven. The little one was brought to his parents only for christening and can be seen for four hours a year. Eddie Hernehult, son of Švéd and Rumunka. Autistic. Removed by violence in 2013 at the age of 14. Reason for neglecting care. Through foster homes who were strong smokers, he entered a nursing home for disabled children. His parents are still fighting for him. Tyler, son of an Američanka woman. Removed in 19 months for supposedly poor benefits associated with diet. The mother is forbidden to contact the child so she can't kidnap the child to the United States of America. She hasn't seen her son since September 2014. Two Brazilian children. Mother Daiane Alves Lopes. The reason for withdrawal was the mother's low age, 20 years. He fights for his children. She arrives at the Norwegian courthouse from Italy, where she moved during her third pregnancy, so that she will not be taken after birth by a third child. Jan Matheo, a Nor parent, was taken shortly after birth to a 39 - year - old mother, stating that she threatened the child when she fell asleep on her chest in the chair. Both mother and family experienced pregnancy in a special facility where they were forced to stay because the social service looked into her past from a teenage age. She has a baby of almost 20 years old at home. She has defended herself in the facility and is fighting for her child. And a completely fresh case of little girl Maxine, taken as a fully breast-fed child in 2.5 months. The daughter of Norka and Slovák. The reason for withdrawal is allegedly lack of eye contact, observed during regular and unannounced visits to social workers in the family after returning from the hospital and the fact that the mother is hearing poor. Although the little girl is fully breast-fed, the mother is allowed to contact her once every 14 days. The baby's in a foster home in an unknown place. Last week, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution criticising countries that are taking their children away in haste without offering them a real alternative. Although no countries were specifically appointed in this resolution, everyone knew that they were voting in particular on Norway and the UK. I also know this because, in January, the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly unanimously approved a resolution where figures are supported. Also at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a petition was submitted to the Litevec, signed by some of our Members, for which I personally thank them. It turns out that Eva Michaláková's case is not unique and that Norway has serious systemic deficiencies in child care and is far from being criticized only by us. Today, they are openly criticized by the governments of the Baltic States or Turkey. It is also shown that within the Norwegian system, local authorities are more draconian than others that appear more frequently in the case list than others. It goes for example. about Barnevern in Lillehammer and Barnevern in Drammen, which includes Eva Michaláková. If I return to the fate of a small, two-and-a-half-month Maxine, the good news is that Slovakia has already informed, because the father is Slovák and Maxine also has Slovak citizenship, that Slovakia has already informed the Norwegian Government of its intention to enter the proceedings as a third party to the dispute, and it is practically possible to say that Slovakia has taken over diplomatic protection. At the end of May, the Norwegian approach to families is to be protested in several European metropolises. According to my information, the main demonstration will take place directly in Oslo, because more and more families have the courage to publish their cases. So I'll share a little seed bead with you. One of the main protest organizers is young Norka, who, according to the information available, took the child directly from the hospital shortly after his birth, and her case coincidentally solved exactly the same office as the case of the Michalákův family, i.e. Barnevern in Nedre Eiker. It would perhaps give hope that dubious practices apply only one local office of Barnevernu to both its own and foreign families. Unfortunately, the official and inadequate response of Norway, which we have before us, rather refutes such an assumption. Our goal is not to fight the Norwegian state. However, it is clear that Norway has a problem in a certain area that it cannot solve on its own. This can happen to every state, even to a democratic one, over time. And from that, there is also an international mechanism for the protection of human rights. I am now coming to present a motion for a resolution and an explanation of the various points. Since Norway is silent and does not provide us with answers to fundamental questions affecting Czech citizens, I propose such a resolution. The first proposal comes from the previous meeting and follows up on the resolution we adopted in December. At that time, we first asked the government to find out the reasons for the removal of Michalákův's children and their division into different foster families, because we can never rule out the fact that such reasons actually exist, that they are legitimate and understandable. Therefore, the Norwegian authorities had to be given the opportunity to explain their position. As can be seen from the information submitted to us by the Prime Minister, the Czech Government has carried out this task. However, she did not receive a satisfactory answer. The Norwegian Government is making excuses for not interfering with the activities of individual local authorities, even though it has the possibility of systemic control over them and although it is legally responsible for their activities before the international community and therefore towards the Czech Republic. As can be seen from the Prime Minister's information, Norway is in breach of Art. 37 The Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, which is a Contracting Party to Norway. It will also be another part of my motion for a resolution. The Norwegian response is right to worry that the removal and distribution of children took place without the relevant reasons that the Norwegian authorities, when they had any suspicions and children had already taken them away, did not return them to their parents after their suspicions had not been confirmed and that, if they suspected that the family was not fully functional according to their expectations, they did not offer any assistance at all to this family. It is therefore appropriate to proceed to the implementation of paragraph IV of our December resolution and to confirm it. The motion for a resolution that I am presenting to you, I will, first, comment in general and then read in a detailed debate, so that you know what we are voting on. Takes note at the point Even the Prime Minister's information, including the oral addition of the latest developments that I assume will come to us here. Point II - notes that the Government fulfilled the first part of the award and requested Norway to provide appropriate explanations. Yes, that's right. But she did not get a satisfactory answer. Point III - asks the Government, and I will read this in a detailed debate, to keep in touch with the Kingdom of Norway in compliance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention under No. 37 on consular liaisons. Point III/2. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to take through the consular section of the Embassy of the Czech Republic in Norway and with reference to article. 36 The Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and with the mother's consent as a holder of parental rights has negotiated contacts with Denis and David Michalákův, has established their current status and has verified that they are receiving the necessary care in their foster families and to inform the Chamber of Deputies of their findings by 31 July 2015 at the latest. [[18.20 hours]] This is mainly due to the fact that for more than a year we have no other than mediated information about Denis Michalák's condition. The Norwegian authorities are trying to prevent his encounter with his mother, and the reason may be, for example, an attempt to conceal a serious deterioration in his health condition. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 36 The Vienna Convention shall have the right to Denis and David Michalákův are our citizens, and parental rights in relation to them and under Norwegian law are still exercised by the mother. It is therefore desirable to make use of Article 36 and to verify the state of the children directly. Point III/3. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to make every effort to get Denis a David Michalákův's return to the Czech Republic and to the jurisdiction of the Czech Republic. The next items of the resolution will then be discussed in a detailed debate. In conclusion, allow me a few more personal sentences. Please, let us not forget that as legislators we are helping a specific Czech family and mother, who has long since been cleansed, who works with children in kindergarten, raises her boyfriend's five-year-old daughter, but her own children are not allowed to return home. We help children who have not only their mother but also their grandmother, grandpa and close relatives at home. These people have been crying for help intensively and constantly for four years, and in the meantime, time is running out. That's clear to all of us. These people are calling intensely for help, and I think it is now very clear that Norway is not speaking to us enough. That we have far from achieved a good end by our activity, but that we are just beginning to write it. I believe that we will not leave Czech citizens in Norway in the lurch. In a detailed debate, I will then present you with a motion for a resolution and also with a way of voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u5	I thank the plaintiff, Mrs Chalánková. Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, Prime Minister, has now signed up for this information. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I think it is appropriate that I make a brief comment on the written report I presented to the Chamber of Deputies. It is therefore the information of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic on the case of Denis a David Michalákův in Norway on the basis of resolution No. 545 Chamber of Deputies of 9 December 2014. I would like to remind you that this information is the second written information that I have submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in this case, and in this speech I also follow up on my previous speech here in the House on 16 September last year. In the last three quarters of the year, the Government of the Czech Republic has put maximum pressure on Norway and has taken specific diplomatic steps at all conceivable levels. On the basis of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, I sent a letter to the Norwegian Prime Minister and received a reply to this letter from the Norwegian Prime Minister. The result of the active activity of the current government was, among other things, ensuring the meeting of the Director of the Office for International Children Protection, Mr Zdeněk Kapitán, with competent Norwegian authorities, namely representatives of the Norwegian Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs, the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry for Children, equal opportunities and social inclusion and the office of the Regional Governor for Buskerud, which took place on 3 March this year in Oslo. The outcome of the negotiations was, on the basis of a report from the Office for International Child Protection, providing a platform for further relevant and more operational communication at expert level, as well as the thematicisation of a number of specific issues aimed, in particular, at intensifying the contact between boys and their biological family. The Norwegian party was strongly invited to support as much active work with the family as possible, such as teaching Czech language for both brothers, making contacts with boys in the Czech language, handing out gifts for boys from their mother. At the same time, a reservation was highlighted in the negotiations against the possible process of adopting boys in Norway. The negotiations also brought further results from which I will mention the following: Norwegian law does not allow the custody of a person living in the territory of another State. Mrs Michaláková can empower representatives of the Czech authorities to consult the files, so it has already happened. This can eliminate the information deficit that leads to some media speculation. A number of procedural options under Norwegian law have also been identified, which have not yet been fully used by Mrs Michaláková or her Norwegian lawyers. These activities are aimed at increasing the chances of handing the boys into the care of the mother. I would like to point out that the reason for placing the boys in foster care did not fall because foster care continues on the basis of an existing final judicial decision. This decision can be amended on the basis of a renegotiation of the case initiated on the basis of a proposal made by Advocate Mrs Michaláková in Norway on 10 December last year. Returning to the family is possible under conditions laid down by Norwegian law. It is now important that Mrs Michaláková demonstrate that the conditions have changed since the last decision and that other conditions prescribed by Norwegian law are fulfilled. In this context, all the activities of the public authorities will further focus on the compliance of the Norwegian authorities with the parameters of the right to a fair trial and the right to family life, as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms embodies them for both states. On 13 March this year, a meeting took place between Mrs Michaláková and her younger son, which lasted about two hours. The employees of Norwegian social services, foster parents and interpreter were present. Mrs. Michaláková could speak Czech to her son. Unfortunately, according to the information available to us, the older son refused to meet. It is important after the steps taken by the government that the Norwegian party now clearly knows that this case is very sensitive to Czech-Norwegian relations. The government will do everything necessary to ensure that Mrs Michaláková's legal rights are not damaged. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again that a substantive decision is a matter for the competent Norwegian authorities and the Court of Justice. And while there is strong political will on the part of the Czech Government, we have no authority to intervene in this decision. So very briefly the comment on the written report I submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. Naturally, I do not want to inform the Chamber of Deputies again about the next steps that will be taken by the Czech authorities in some time frame. However, I believe that the ingence of the Chamber of Deputies in the whole process should not be excessive. The Chamber of Deputies has already made a clear statement on this matter. Naturally, the government is prepared to respect those decisions of the Chamber of Deputies, or at least act on the basis of the direction that these resolutions presume. However, I would ask that there really be no inflation in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this issue, because any further resolution that we adopt on this matter will dilute the importance of the original earlier positions adopted by the House. So I stress again, I do not prevent this from being regularly informed by the Chamber of Deputies. I am sure I am prepared to continue to act actively, from the point of view of the state administration, we are prepared to take initiatives from representatives of the legislature in order to improve and step up the procedure. Personally, I will wonder if Mr. Zdeněk, Kapitán, will be taking steps to check whether the promises he received during his visit to Norway are being fulfilled. I think that's the key thing. There were some things promised. We have asked the Norwegian side for some of this, and it is now important that Norway's commitment to fulfilling these promises in terms of more human contact and taking advantage of the opportunities that Norwegian law gives actually occurs. All on my side, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u7	I thank the Prime Minister and initiate a general debate in which there is pressure - sorry, Minister. [[Oral]] First of all, Mr Bendl and his two minutes. Then, with priority rights, the Minister. After that, the rapporteur or the appellant. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, I have performed on this case several times. I would like to express the public's admiration and thanks to Mrs Chalánková for biting the problem because it is a serious matter. The serious thing is the belief of a Czech citizen that the state will stand up for him if he gets in an emergency. I want to publicly and very much thank the Prime Minister's commitment and his personal approach to the matter. I must say that I perceive that he is engaged in this, and I would like to thank him on the one hand and, on the other hand, ask him not to stop, in those ingerences, to be sufficiently tough, to say, towards the Kingdom of Norway, sufficiently visible in the fight for the child belonging to the mother, and where, in my deep conviction, there is a violation of the child's right to be a family right. I think we need to look for every legal way to get the kids back. I'm not surprised that they're not the only ones. I think the Kingdom of Norway has reached the so-called A service law to true perfection, when the government is essentially unable to do anything, must ask an official in Norway if he agrees to do so, and the official is acting on his own, does not reflect what is happening politically at that level. That sounds to me like it's very bad, and I feel responsible to say it here. Once again, although I understand that this is an extreme solution, I remind you once again whether to take advantage of the possibility in this unique case to use the status of diplomat for Mrs. Michaláková, because I think it would help things. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. Now with priority rights, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me add to the Prime Minister's speech, first of all, by expressing my views on what has happened in the last few days, which is a bit of a complication in the matter. First of all, I would like to remind you what is the basis of the position that we take in the dispute. It could be said that our goal today is, first of all, to act on the Norwegian side, so that it does not proceed to the process of adopting one of those brothers in Norway, i.e. We ask for guarantees of the maintenance of foster care in relation to both children, while appealing to the Norwegian authorities to strengthen work with the biological family, leading best to the creation of such conditions, so that the mother of the children, as well as the wider family, can be given custody of the children. This is therefore the position we defended and defended by the representative of the Office for International Children's Protection on his trip to Norway in March. The result of the journey, among other things. it was - and this is now important to recall - that Mr Kapitán, director of this institution, was assured during the negotiations that the adoption of a younger brother in this case was out of the question. That was the assurance received during the hearing. However, what has happened in the meantime is that during the month of April, the Office for International Children's Protection received information that the district office of the Norwegian social authority had turned to the regional institution and asked it precisely to initiate proceedings which would result in allowing the adoption of David Michalák's younger son. So that's what happened. I repeat, in fact, this move, which is in the form of a proposal at the moment, is something that if it really happened, it would mean denying the assurance given to our representative during the March negotiations that this adoption case is out of the question. I would like to inform you that we responded to this new situation on 22 April. A letter was sent to the Norwegian Party, where the Office for International Children's Protection responded by defending ourselves against the adoption of a younger brother. Our position is also such that we recommend that Mrs Michaláková make the file on this matter available to the Office for International Children's Protection in the Czech Republic, i.e. to Mr Kapitán, so that, on the basis of the knowledge he would be equipped, he could make his way to Norway, with the aim, in particular, of negotiating with the Norwegian authorities, where it would be possible to make a reservation directly in the course of the negotiations against the intention to allow the adoption of David Michalák. And, of course, on the basis of these negotiations and their outcome, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are also prepared to address Norway with a diplomatic note in which we would also respond to the situation at this level. At the same time, I can tell you that we have already turned to our political partners and that we have informed them about this new situation, namely that it seems quite warning to us that there has been a step that is at issue with what was the content of the negotiations in March, where it seemed that something such as adoption is not at risk in this case. So I'm pointing out that what we're dealing with here right now is only a draft from county to county, so to speak in our language. And we would like to prevent this plan as soon as possible. It would be good, I repeat, if our representative were allowed to look into the file, which is therefore in the possibilities of Mrs Michaláková, she, in cooperation with her Norwegian lawyer, can allow this insight into the file, and on the basis of knowledge, we could then carry out that direct intervention with the Norwegian authorities and at least demand that what was promised be respected and respected in March. These are roughly the steps that we are planning to take and which we would like to respond to the particular warning option that has been created here, which is not yet being implemented, but which we would like to prevent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u11	I thank the Minister. Now, the plaintiff. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u12	If I may, I'd like to comment on a few more of the information that came out here. I would follow the words of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister Zaorálek, because I have accurate information that Mother Eva Michaláková allowed the Director of the Office for International Child Protection to enter the file a month ago. That's the approach he's got a long time ago. In cooperation with Norwegian lawyers, of course. So it's true. This information, which we have heard, is very serious, especially in connection with the meeting that took place 13. 3. when he met Davídek with Mommy. maminka spoke to him gradually during the meeting in Czech. The boy understood her even though she was taken at the age of 2.5 years. He liked the meeting, ended up with a hug and showed a smiling smiley face. Interesting information was also said when we hear here that Norway will by no means issue children in the territory of a foreign state. If we translate it this way - it will not release Czech children into the Czech Republic. Then it is a mystery why the director of the Office for International Child Protection, Mr. Zdeněk, the Kapitán proposed and pushed the family if he cannot ask the mother why she should ask sister Zuzana Sovková for custody of the children. I just want to make a comment, just so we're clear. Otherwise, in the case of an Indian family, which was slightly different, the possibility of entrusting children to the care of a wider family was possible. [[18.40 hours]] As regards the legal proceedings opened by the mother on 10 December through its lawyers, this is so called. new management. It's not a revision of the original court decision, it can't be undone. This is under the law on social-legal protection of children of barneloven about new proceedings, where the mother must prove that conditions have changed and that she has improved and that she is actually asking the children back to her care. Such a request, when it is also expressed by materially interested foster parents, and also over time, is a question of whether children have not become used to it in foster parents, can be administered by their mother or parents every 12 months. So it is not clear when all the so-called ones will be exhausted. "corrective means' up to the age of 18 of these children. That means over and over and over and all the remedies haven't been exhausted. We have more cases that we have at our disposal to look at in those court decisions. There has also been talk about the fact that we want to ensure that the family receives the right to a fair trial and family life, which is precisely what is contained in Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. And it was one part of my motion for a resolution that we could use so-called. the possibility to lodge an inter-state complaint pursuant to point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011; 33 precisely this European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. For today's day, I will withdraw this proposal, and I will no longer delay you with this. But that doesn't mean the government can't use it. Just as he can use diplomatic protection for his citizens. When there is a detailed debate, I will make detailed proposals for the resolution and shorten it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Next up, Mr. Janulík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u14	I just technically, through Mr President, asked the doctor the question: I have not heard anything, I do not know if I have missed it, if you have heard what the lady has actually done. Why did the court take her kids away? You're finally saying it's okay for the file, I didn't hear it anywhere. The Norwegian court probably didn't make it up because it fell from the sky. She's just supposed to prove that she's improved something. But what is it to improve? What happened in there? I haven't read it, I haven't heard it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u15	I thank Mr Janulík. Mrs Chalánková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u16	Of course, I have all the court decisions at my disposal. These judicial decisions are based on the observation and report of Barnevern, which Barnevern must not show to anyone. So that's what we want to know. And in the court decisions it is documented - both statements, as I informed you all during my interpellations. There's information about what a foster mom had told her that she had children in her care for several months, so what the little boy allegedly told her under the table somewhere, that's one of the evidence. Which the court didn't even consider. And then he drew from the so-called a review that says that the mother is not emotionally equipped enough. That's all. [[He's responding to Mr. Yanulík.]] Yes. No, we're not criticizing the court, it's a court decision. I don't understand. I'm criticizing a system where we don't know what this court decision was based on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u17	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate and we will proceed to the debate in detail, in which the appellant's application was amended in a detailed debate. Please, plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u18	So, if you don't mind, I will read the motion for a resolution and reduce them substantially. So a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies on the Denis a David Michalákův case in Norway. The Chamber of Deputies I takes note of: 1. the Prime Minister's information on the Denis a David Michalákův case in Norway submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 13 February 2015 pursuant to Resolution No. 545 Chamber of Deputies of 9 December 2014; 2. additional information from the Prime Minister on Denis a David Michalákův's case presented orally by the Prime Minister
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u19	Thank you for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u20	That's not all, I'll just be after the Romans, I'm asking for a separate vote after the Roman numbers. And at point II, after separate numbers, I'll explain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u21	I certainly do, but I still have to ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u22	No, I didn't read the whole thing!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u23	I understand that, but I cannot vote, Madame, until I conclude a detailed debate. So first, read the whole thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u24	Okay. So point II. The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to - and here I would ask for a separate vote after individual points of Arab numbers. 1. In contact with the Kingdom of Norway, it should consistently insist on compliance with Article 37 (b). (b) the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, which requires the Contracting Parties to inform the competent consular authorities of cases relating to the provisions of the guardian or guardian of minors of the Contracting Parties. 2. To get through the consular section of the embassies of the Czech Republic in Norway and with reference to Article No. 36 The Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and, with the consent of the mother, as a holder of parental rights, she negotiated contact with Denis and David Michalákův, found their current status and verified that they received the necessary care in foster families. 3. He asks the government to make every effort to achieve Denis and David Michalákův's return to the Czech Republic and to the jurisdiction of the Czech Republic. Then I have a point 4, which I am downloading at this point, but that does not prevent the government from taking advantage of this point, and it also does not mean that I will not come with it any other time. And this point reads: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to consider the possibility of lodging an interstate complaint against Norway within the meaning of Art. 33 The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, together with other interested countries, where appropriate. I also withdraw point 5 does not mean that the government cannot use it: the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to consider the possibility of granting diplomatic protection to Denis a David Michalákův and their mother, the Czech Republic, in promoting their right to privacy and family life and to a fair trial against the Kingdom of Norway. III. The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the President of the Republic be assisted by the Government in implementing the points of this resolution. IV. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to inform the Chamber of Deputies by 31 July 2015 at the latest of the measures taken by the Government, implemented or intends to implement under this resolution. Please vote separately on point I, point II and there separately according to Arab numbers. A separately by points III and IV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u25	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. I apologize for not understanding the debate in detail. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is now reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u26	Thank you. Have a good evening. I just want to be here because I've listed the steps we're about to take in the near future, and I'd like to make sure that we do everything that the law allows us to do, and we're going to use all the political options we have. I just want to stand by what I said here when I mentioned that Mr. Kapitán still doesn't have all the files he needs. Because here it was said he's had access to files for a month. It's not about the files that are available here. There are others. And, as the Norwegian side has been told, he can only get to know them if Mrs. Michaláková can get him to get to them and have a better knowledge of the whole thing. So I assure you, if that were the case and Mr. Kapitán had access to those files, he wouldn't have wanted to. That's logical. So I insist that he still hasn't been allowed to access a number of confidential files, that's true, and it's only in Mrs. Michaláková's power to allow him to access those files. And I said that if this goes well, based on this knowledge, it will not be a problem for Mr Kapitán to visit Norway and justify this problem of rejection of adoption with arguments that will be supported by a thorough knowledge of the matter. Then we are also prepared to use the diplomatic note to prevent the real threat of adopting a younger son. So I assure you that we will take all steps, but at the same time I insist that the representative of the Office for International Children's Protection of the Czech Republic has not yet been allowed to look into all these files, there are a number of files, in which he was interested in seeing that he was actually equipped to deal with the Norwegian party properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u27	Another plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u28	I don't want to delay the debate anymore, I have accurate information from my mother's attorneys that my mother gave her consent to the director of the office, Mr. Kapitán, a month ago. I don't want to stretch it out anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u29	Thank you, Mrs. plaintiff. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate. I will now ask the appellant, on the basis of the proposals she has tabled in a detailed debate, to propose them. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I have an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. I ask you to sign up with your voting cards, and I will ask the appellant, as she said in detail in the debate, to present individual proposals. I'm asking if anyone has an objection to the procedure, as suggested by the plaintiff. It's not like that. Please, plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u30	Motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on the Denis a David Michalákův case in Norway. Chamber of Deputies I. Notes 1. the Prime Minister's information on the Denis a David Michalákův case in Norway submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 13 February 2015 pursuant to Resolution No. 545 Chamber of Deputies of 9 December 2014; 2. additional information from the Prime Minister on Denis a David Michalákův's case presented orally by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u31	I am opening the vote on this resolution on these two points. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 67 vote. 126 Members and Members are registered, for 122, against none. The motion was accepted. I beg the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u32	II. The Chamber of Deputies requests the government, 1. so that, in contact with the Kingdom of Norway, it consistently insists on compliance with Article 37 (b). (b) the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, which requires the Contracting Parties to inform the competent consular authorities of cases relating to the provisions of the guardian or guardian of minors of the Contracting Parties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u33	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 68. 130 Members and Members are registered, for 61, against 7. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u34	II. The Chamber of Deputies requests the government, 2. to arrange for contact with Denis and David Michalákův through the consular section of the Embassy of the Czech Republic in Norway and with reference to Article 36 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and with the mother's consent as a holder of parental rights - Look out!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u35	Wait a minute. [[At the public gallery, a man tries to climb the railing and jump. Members under the gallery are quickly leaving their seats. Protective services immediately intervene and secure the man.]] The Protective Service has handled this emergency situation. [[Let's hear it.]] I'll ask my colleagues to return to their seats, and we'll continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u36	II. The Chamber of Deputies requests the government, 2. to arrange for contact with Denis and David Michalákův through the consular section of the Embassy of the Czech Republic in Norway and with reference to Article 36 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and with the mother's consent as a holder of parental rights, to find out their current status and to verify that they receive the necessary care in foster families.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u37	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 69. 130 Members and Members are registered, for 51, against 14. Nor has this proposal been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u38	Point two of Rome - three. Chamber of Deputies -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u39	One moment, madam. I'm sorry. I understand the extraordinaryness of the situation and sensitivity especially of colleagues on the left...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u40	We're almost done. The Chamber of Deputies requests the government, 3. to make every effort to get Denis and David Michalákův's return to the Czech Republic and to the Czech jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u41	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 70 vote. 131 Members and Members are registered, for 45, against 7. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u42	III. The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the President of the Republic be assisted by the Government in implementing the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u43	I am opening the vote on this recommendation to the President of the Republic. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 71. 130 Members and Members are registered, for 44, against none. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u44	IV. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to inform the Chamber of Deputies by 31 July 2015 at the latest of the measures taken by the Government or intends to implement under this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u45	Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 72. 131 Members and Members are registered, for 81, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u46	Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u47	I note that we have approved all the resolutions that have been proposed. Thank you to the rapporteur. With priority rights, the Vice-President of the ODS. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u48	Mr Vice-President, I know we did not prolong our negotiations today, but on the other hand, the incident that we all witnessed a little while ago does not take place on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies every day. I think it would be appropriate for us to interrupt the meeting for ten minutes, and for someone relevant to come here to tell us what really happened here. I understand the nervousness of colleagues sitting under the audience's gallery. The only thing we saw under the press gallery was that the gentleman who sat there for a long time tried to climb the railing and jump down. I think that something like this has never really happened in the Chamber of Deputies, and I would therefore like to ask you whether it would be possible to interrupt the negotiations for ten minutes so that we can learn what happened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u49	Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Parliamentary Club Pavel Kováčik with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask my colleague, acting chairman of the ODS Club, to be patient. We'll know, of course, from what happened here. And this isn't the first time we've had a lot of experience with it, and it's all falling on our heads. If we pay too much attention to these incidents, we'll just multiply them. At this point, I would like to thank the protection service of the Police of the Czech Republic for early intervention. [[Let's hear it.]] I believe I do so on behalf of all of us. And the measure that was once taken, that the first row would not be taken on the gallery and would be present, proved correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-019-131.u51	Thank you. I do not understand the Vice-President's proposal, who is the relevant person, so I would like to ask the Chancellor who is present at the gallery to come here to the galleys, and those of you who are interested in information about what has happened, so the Chancellor will tell you if the Vice-President agrees. Otherwise, I am interrupting this House meeting until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will continue with written interpelations. Thank you and have a good evening. And please, no one jump! Thank you.
