ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u1	63. Government bill amending Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision (the Health Services Act), as amended (the House Press 614/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček, and I will ask you, Minister, to take the floor, and I will ask you colleagues to keep your voice down so that we understand what the Minister will be giving. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the Government's proposal for a law amending the Health Services Act. The proposed amendment regulates the Health Services Act primarily in the scope of the definition of the National Health Information System, hereinafter referred to as the NHIS. This legislation was adopted in particular because it was necessary to clarify the existing NHIS legislation in terms of purpose and content in order to make clear the use of justified data collection and to ensure their protection against possible misuse. I would just like to point out that in almost 60 years of the existence of this information system, there has been no leakage of data and their misuse. However, in the area of data security and cyber security -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u3	I apologize, Minister, for interrupting, but again I will ask you colleagues and colleagues to lower the noise level in the hall. If you have something important you need to say, go to the lobby. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u4	However, in the area of data security and cyber security, there is now an intensive development and the NHIS setting must also respond to it. In addition to this specification, the definition of the NHIS administrator is changed. The current legislation allows several entities to manage individual NHIS components. The possibility of making changes to an NHIS administrator does not contribute to a unified conceptual management or contributes to the continuity of data collection and processing. It also presents a risk in the ambiguous definition of liability for the management and protection of personal data of entities on which records are kept in NHIS. It is therefore proposed that the NHIS should have one administrator by law, namely the Institute of Health Information and Statistics. The proposed legislation specifies some existing health registers established under the Health Services Act, which are part of the NHIS, and as part of the NHIS, new national health registers are added, namely the National Diabetological Register, the National Intensive Care Register. In addition to the registers already mentioned, a National Register of Health Services and a National Register of Health Workers are also established. By setting them up, we want to fill a white space in the area of data availability for evaluation of the quality of care and also build the necessary data base for optimization of the healthcare payment system. I would now like to make a brief comment on the newly established registers for a more detailed explanation. The introduction of the National Register of Health Services is mainly followed by the establishment of a data base for optimization and cultivation of a payment system from public health insurance. For this purpose, the data of health insurance companies that are already available to those institutions with regard to their activities will be used. If we allow our information on the availability of care, its quality and results, as well as their costs, the significant effect of this register will also be to reduce the administrative complexity of collection of departmental data and reduce this burden for clinical practice. The analysis that already existing data from health insurance companies will enable the whole range of surplus statistical surveys to be cancelled. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] [[9.10 hours]] The aim of the National Register of Health Workers is to redefine the register, which was cancelled by the Constitutional Court No. 437/2012. The newly proposed National Register of Health Workers is designed in such a way that the Constitutional Court's finding is fully complied with and therefore the data kept on health workers will be clearly protected. The register is designed as a reference non-public agenda system. The information kept in the register will be the basis for planning, decision-making and predicting the number of workers in relation to population and disease, as well as for optimising available capacities providing health care in regions and for ensuring optimal training for health professionals. Last but not least, this register will serve as a reference system for the distribution of access rights of healthcare professionals in the eHealth system. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider this to be very important in terms of ensuring the activities of the National Health Information System and I believe that you will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Pavel Antonín. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Health Services Act is aimed at ensuring the basal functionality and modernisation of the National Health Information System, which, without this regulation, is significantly lagging behind the demands of modern health care. The requirement to have quality, representative and complete data is completely legitimate in modern health care and without this base it is not possible to ensure the optimization of care, its availability and quality assessment. However, it should also be stressed that the data must be obtained by the maximum possible utilisation of existing resources. All necessary data cannot be obtained at the expense of the capacity of medical personnel, doctors. It is these aspects of modernization that the proposed amendment focuses primarily on. The main amendment points and adjustments include in particular the five following items. 1. The law clearly defines the NHIS administrator, which is the IHIS of the Czech Republic. The previous regulation allowed this power and responsibility to be transferred to several entities, including newly established legal entities. 2. The law newly determines that one of the principal uses of NHIS data is the evaluation of the quality of care. Assessment of quality of care, respectively. generating objective indicators of quality of care, is certainly one of the basic senses of the existence of NZIS and collection of resort data. The use of NZIS data for the evaluation of the quality of care corresponds, among other things, to the international standards and obligations to which the Czech Republic has applied. 3. The Act newly defines the National Register of Health Workers in a form which corresponds to the Constitutional Court's finding. This register is newly defined as a fully non-public reference system without which you cannot imagine any meaningful start of electronization agendas in Czech health care. Without this system, we are also unable to reliably quantify the number of health professionals, evaluate the available personnel capacity for care security and plan personnel resources. The reference system will enable electronic capacity identification according to expertise, specialization and special competence. The proposal builds a register so that it is not competitive with existing databases, such as professional chambers. On the contrary, it will serve as a source of reference information for these bodies. 4. The Act newly defines the obligation of health insurance companies to provide fully representative data on paid care for analyses within NZIS, i.e. a newly established National register of paid health services. This system must be viewed as a database that allows health care control covered by public health insurance, which is certainly the legitimate law of the State as the dominant payer of care. The secondary effect of this registry will be a significant limitation of a number of redundant data collections, which, in the form of departmental statements, already obtain the data contained in the data storages of health insurance companies. The register will be operated in partnership with insurance companies and these will also benefit from the validation of data and from the analyses produced. 5. National register of paid health services requires the provision of data on paid health services as from 1. 1. 2010. The specific wording is: "The health insurance companies shall transmit data pursuant to § 77a para. to the National Health Services Register within 180 days of the date of establishment of this register. 2 of Act No. 372/2011 Coll., as effective as from the date of entry into force of this Act, if they relate to health services provided after 1 January 2010.' This provision is necessary so that the registry acquires real-time functionality so that it can be used for urgent tasks of Czech health care, among other things to optimize the bed care payment system. If we started analyzing these data from 2016, for example, then the register would have obtained usable data over a period of about five years, which is an unacceptable delay, considering that the necessary data has been available and fully usable in health insurance companies since 2010.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u7	Thank you. Please take the floor at the news desk. I announce that today, Mr. Václav Klučka, Mr. 20, will vote with a replacement card. I am opening a general debate. I'm filing two applications for it. The first is Mr Leoš Heger, but he apologizes from today's meeting. The next party to the debate is Mr Jiří Skalický. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, three brief comments on the amendment to the Health Services Act. For one thing, we believe that the position and competence of the UHIS, as defined, are going in the right direction. We just believe that the UHIS will give us much more relevant information in the future than in the years past, whether recent or longer past, it simply gave us. Another point concerns the register of medical services covered. Here we believe that this register of paid health services will actually be one compact for the whole of Czech health care and that the spectrum of paid health services will expand to the benefit of both patients and the quality of health services. The last point, perhaps the most important, concerns the medical personnel register. The one we've been tracking, or the way we've loaded, includes all medical personnel, including relief and lower health personnel. So here we are not sure whether it makes sense for all health care workers to be in this register. In these lower categories, in our opinion, there is a relatively large turnover, a large fluctuation, and we believe that there will be unnecessary administration, which will at least burden the relevant workers on time. However, we are ready to discuss this issue on the grounds of the Health Committee, and we therefore recommend that this amendment be referred to the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read the note that came to me. From 9.30 to 10.45 for reasons of work, participation in the adoption of a foreign delegation, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes. In fact, Mr Milan Brázdil is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u10	Thank you for your word. As my colleague Skalický stepped up here and said that he did not think that the register should cover even the lowest health workers, fluctuations, etc., I would also like to say that the Czech Medical Chamber is currently creating, upgrading, simply exceeding the list of doctors, and the register is completely functional. So I would also kind of intercede whether it's even necessary to sub, to double the medical registry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u11	Thank you. Mr Svoboda is duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u12	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, I would like to say that this law brings about a change that is very important for health care, moves the whole issue somewhere forward and introduces a certain order into things that have been poorly treated in terms of monitoring care. However, I have quite a fundamental point on this programme. The newly formed UHIS and the entire structure, as it works there today, together with the link to the information that the insurance company has, gives us the absolute opportunity to have all the health data together. Those figures are extremely important to us. The whole problem that we are still dealing with, which means the cost of health, is still solved only by the option, whether we can save more or whether we can get more money from the state budget for state insured people. And he has this problem with a different, absolutely fundamental plane, and that fundamental plane is called the quality of care provided. If the quality of care provided is really good in all its great average, it will use only what is needed for diagnosis and treatment, so the cost of care and quantity of care will certainly change. In order to talk about the quality of care, we need to have some statistical data for this. This new law perfectly opens the room for this. However, I am convinced that information on the quality of care as provided is information that is public property, which means that we should be able to define on the basis of these materials what the treatment results of individual workplaces are. It's a thing that's common in the world. When you go into surgery in the United States, the workplace you're going to, of course, has a list of results that is presented, how many patients have survived, how many percent have they been successful, how many times have they been hospitalized again for some complications, what was the length of the treatment period. All of these data are known. And an American patient who is insured in a different way, or is paid in another way, can actually choose. It can choose, and this selection has of course limits covered by the capacity of the equipment. In a market environment, this may mean that the price of performances is different in those workplaces, which may mean in less market environments that the policy is different. Because you probably don't know it, but the biggest bonus that canadian railroad workers have, which is a special profession, because actually on a train they drive day and night across that country to the other side and then they come back in two days, so the biggest bonus they have is that they are insured so that in case of illness they can choose any medical facility in the United States and the insurance company will pay them back. It's very important to these occupations. These are all professions that implicitly contain the risk of cardiac affairs and in cardiac operations the results of individual workplaces are very different. And this insurance is one of the things that attracts a number of interested people to the job of a train driver, very disadvantageous and otherwise unattractive. I am convinced that we need to open such an area in our health care, and this law provides the basis for this. Because, for example, we have absolutely perfect data in oncology. [[Nesroz.]] For many years, we have known the results of the individual oncological workplaces, we know the number of survivals to which diagnoses, the same things we know about diabetes, but this law could allow us to be able to evaluate treatment in its entirety. It would have two major advantages. One crucial advantage would be that the state would actually know which workplace is to take care of from its point of view, because they are the most efficient and de facto the cheapest for it. And the other thing. It is a space for patients to finally become active participants in health care and have an interest in getting into a workplace that is of good quality. All of these data are, of course, subject to some anonymity. It's all been treated and processed in the world. I believe that in this law we should create space, a possible switch for such information to the public. It is a matter that I will consider, or we will consider, in the form of an additional or amendment that would open the room for such awareness of patients. From my point of view, it is, of course, a space that would open up the premises for possible extra patient insurance, so that they can open up their choice of care, for example, as canadian railroaders have it open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I support the possibility for the Office for Health Information and Statistics to obtain data on the basis of which it may further prepare registers and process data which are important for the health economy, or for some reports on the health status of the population, etc. But there is a need to ensure that these data are under control and protection. The previous proposals of the National Health Information System, which have been submitted in the past, raised a problem from the point of view of data protection, because there are very sensitive data, and, as far as I know, there have been problems with the Office for Personal Data Protection. And for me personally, the key is how to ensure the protection of sensitive data that will be collected in these registers. That is why I think it is necessary to ensure that this data is not misused. A significant shift is that it is proposed that state institutions or state-owned organisations will now have oversight over this register. Which I think is very important. But what is also important is the resulting form of data protection and data security against abuse, against the fact that sensitive data about us don't get into unauthorized hands, because you can imagine that such data will be very interesting for pharmaceutical companies, in general for companies dealing, let's say, with the health business. So much for my comment on this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u15	Thank you, Mr Member, and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate that is open. If this is not the case, then I am ending the general debate and asking whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really am very brief. Maybe just two or three comments on what was said here. First. Which health care workers will be involved in this register and whether it is really necessary for everyone to be there from the lowest levels. I would just like to clarify - it will concern all health professionals who will be able to treat the patient separately. In practice it means from nurses above. [[9.30 hours]] The reason, I think, is clear - so that the employer, after the health care professional gives him his access code to the system, can check, say, when receiving, his ability to actually work with the patient without supervision. As for the other things that have been said here, I think it is very good that the UHIS will finally get to the huge amount of data that health insurance companies have today and which are not available for decision-making on the Czech health care system. I think it is very good that it will be the IHIS, because, of course, these data need to be submitted to relevant statistical analyses and only after competent people have done them, to evaluate something from them, because sometimes the conclusions that are rash can, of course, be drawn, but they do not always correspond to reality. As far as data protection is concerned, as I said here, the register of health professionals actually fully respects the Constitutional Court's decision. For another time he was very carefully and very long dealt with together with the Office for Personal Data Protection in such a way that this office had no major objections to this register, which was succeeded. And I believe that all these matters can then be discussed in detail within the health committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u17	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur will also take the final floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u18	I really only have one or two sentences. In my opinion, what the Professor of Svoboda said is absolutely crucial in this law. The other points are not secondary, they are important, but the fact that it gets NZIS and sucks data from insurance companies and is able to statistically evaluate it and make conclusions about what our health care brings is an absolutely fundamental idea in our health care. I hope everyone in this law understands that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-001-063.u19	Thank you. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee, and I am asking if anybody is proposing another committee as a Committee on Guarantee. I can't see, in which case I'll vote. We will take the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to order the motion tabled to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 144; 161 Members are present, for proposal 147, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I therefore ask whether anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see any suggestions. In that case, thank you and I am done discussing this press. We'll move on to the next item on today's agenda. Opening point
