ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-001-062.u1	62. Government bill on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances /house print 508/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-001-062.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce the Government's bill on health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances. The proposed law will replace the applicable Act No. 379/2005 Coll., on measures to protect against the harmful effects of tobacco products, alcohol and other addictive substances and on the amendment of related laws, which can currently be considered as umbrella legislation in the drug field. The proposed law aims primarily at tightening measures aimed at protecting the health of citizens and reducing the harm associated with the use of tobacco, alcohol and other addictive substances. I would now briefly mention the content of the new law. For example, the proposed law extends places where smoking is prohibited, in particular in order to strengthen health protection against exposure to tobacco smoke. A total ban on smoking is introduced, for example, in the indoor areas of restaurants, cafes and the like. It introduces an obligation for restaurant operators and similar catering facilities to offer at least one soft drink cheaper than the cheapest alcoholic beverage of the same volume. It expands the range of places where the sale of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages will not be possible. Alcoholic beverages, for example, will not be possible to sell through vending machines, mobile stores, and so on. In this context, the Act also adopts the relevant provisions of the Law on excise duties governing the place of sale of spirits and tobacco products. Last but not least, the law regulates anti-alcoholic and anti-toxicomanic detention services as a specific health service. The draft law also includes related amendments to the Act on Health Services and the Act on Specific Health Services. The material was subject to a proper review procedure, under which it was examined from all possible angles, and subsequently approved unanimously by the Government on 3 June 2015. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this legislation will contribute to improving the situation of protection against addictive substances and will have a positive impact on the health of the population. That is why I believe you will support it in the next legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-001-062.u3	I thank the Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Krákora. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-001-062.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Allow me to propose a merger of paragraphs 62 and 97, which means the Government's bill on health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances and the House's press 272, is an amendment to the Act on protection against damage caused by tobacco products. Both laws deal with tobacco. The House Press 508, the government's proposal, of course, is more complex, the House Press 272 deals only with tobacco, but the debate could be common, and I therefore dare to propose it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-001-062.u5	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. Since this is a procedural proposal, we should vote now without debate if that is how you agree to it. Before we proceed to the vote, I will call my colleagues from the lobby and ask everyone present to register with their cards again, because I do not think that all of you have rejoined after the voting device has been repaired. Thank you. We will now vote on the procedural proposal to merge the debate, paragraphs 62 and 97. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 102, to which 145 are registered, for 131. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I now ask the rapporteur to continue his report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-001-062.u6	I've prepared two intelligence reports. I will, of course, read one more complex, that is, point 62, of the Government's bill concerning smoking, alcohol and addictive substances, it can be said that it is more complex, whereas paragraph 97 is a subset of this law, because it only concerns the bill on smoking. Maybe I'll be a little more specific, so forgive me. It is necessary to state the definition of the problem, the objective of the bill proposal, the impact of the proposal and why amendment of Act No. 379/2005 Sb., which does not adequately address the protection against tobacco products. I divided the definition of problems into three circuits. It's tobacco use, alcohol consumption, and illegal drugs. What can I say about tobacco use? Tobacco consumption is now considered the most serious cause of death and chronic non-infectious diseases that can be averted by prevention. According to qualified estimates, 18,000 people die annually in the Czech Republic as a result of tobacco-related diseases. This is a number of diseases, especially cardiovascular diseases, tumors, respiratory diseases. According to qualified estimates by smoking experts, nine out of ten cases of lung cancer, six times more frequently head and cervical cancer, four times more frequently pancreatic cancer, up to 14 times more frequently chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, bronchial asthma, and up to ten times more cardiovascular disease, such as myocardial infarction, central brain events, and so on. [[15.20 hours]] The need for tobacco itself, as well as exposure to indirect tobacco smoke, has a detrimental effect on human health. A mixture of smoke, estimated, contains about 4,000 chemicals, some of which are dangerous to health, such as nicotine. There have been no significant changes in the prevalence of smoking in the population of the Czech Republic between 1997 and 2013. The proportion of smokers in the adult population varies from 28 to 32 percent according to information from the State Health Institute in Prague. I heard this morning that it's 26 to 28 percent, but I think it's close to 30 percent. The prevalence of daily smoking in the adult population has shown a very slight downward trend over the past ten years. Even in terms of gender division, a slight trend in the decline in the number of smoking men and women can be assessed, but it is only mild, it concerns units of percent. Three-quarters of current smokers, according to the State Health Institute's findings, started smoking under the age of 18. In the adult population in the Czech Republic in 2013, because other statistics have not yet been available, a total of 29,9 percent of smokers, of which almost three quarters were smokers who smoke tobacco every day. The highest incidence of smoking, and this is alarming, is, according to an investigation by the State Health Institute, 15 to 24 years of age. There is the greatest incidence and this is, of course, very bad. The proportion of persons who are forced to stay in a smoked environment also does not change significantly. In 2013, nearly 13 percent of the respondents, 13.3% of them, 11.8% of them, were exposed to tobacco smoke in their homes. The high proportion of non-smokers was also at the workplace: 20,7 percent of employees smoked, 25,4% of men and about 16.6% of women. In the case of electronic cigarettes, in 2014, according to the State Health Institute, the use of electronic cigarettes was 4,6 per cent men and 3,2 per cent women. More than three times the increase in users compared to 2013. True, all who smoke electronic cigarettes may not contain nicotine, of course, harmful substances, but there may be herbal preparations and so on. In 2011, half 13-year-olds and three-quarters of 15-year-olds had personal experience with smoking in the Czech Republic. Regular smokers account for 18 percent of 15 - year - old children. The much more numerous experience of 11 - year - old boys compares with girls at age 13, and by the age of 15, girls who have ever smoked are already significantly more than boys. It's alarming again that at a youthful age, basically a child's age, at the age of 15, girls begin to prevail with smoking over boys. So these are the figures of the State Health Institute, of course. Otherwise, there were also studies conducted by the United States of America GITS and the results of the study also show insufficient protection for children from exposure to tobacco smoke. We know, for example, that there are supposedly states in the United States of America that are not allowed to smoke in a car when a driver drives a child. So it's strict. In 2011, 45,8% of children aged 13 to 15 years from the Czech Republic reported exposure to tobacco smoke in closed public spaces and 43 percent reported that they live in households where others smoke. So the percentages are about halfway around, which are also alarming numbers. Now, here's the important thing. More than 7 out of 10 children, i.e. 70 per cent, believe that smoking should be banned in public places, which is interesting. 70 percent of children under the age of 18 think smoking in public places should be banned. Speaking of numbers, according to the newspaper report and according to the SZU, the share of citizens is about 78 to 80 percent, so citizens also believe that smoking in public areas should be banned. That's probably the definition of the tobacco problem. The second point is alcohol consumption. Of course, we are also in the leading places in Europe and in the world. As far as consumption is concerned, the situation in the Czech Republic also does not change significantly. Consumption is stabilised at a relatively high level of approximately 10 litres of pure alcohol per year per capita, including children. 10 liters of pure alcohol! Of course, not everyone drinks pure alcohol or pure alcohol, but there is consumption - about one half makes beer, one third makes alcohol, and the rest is consumption of wine and other alcohols. According to the results of the survey, 15 percent of the adult population consumes alcohol regularly and very often daily or every other day. In men, this incidence is 23 percent, and in women, it is 8 percent. 16 percent of adults can be considered high risk consumers, 5 percent are problem drinkers. Drinking excessive doses of alcohol a week and more often can be considered particularly risky in terms of a number of possible problems not only of health, but of accidents, accidents, violent behaviour and so on. There are differences in education, and statistically significant. Students report frequent drinking of excess doses compared to high school students and those with primary education or taught less frequently. So there's a downward trend with increasing education. Furthermore, the Czech Republic has a high level of alcohol use not only in adults and children and adolescents under 16 years of age. In 2011, the Czech Republic took first place in the consumption of alcohol among teenagers as part of the European comparison. Again, the poor position in the European ranking - first place. The study shows that five or more glasses are consumed more than three times in the last month by a fifth of our students on one occasion. In boys, the frequency of regular drinking of beer and spirits, girls of wine and spirits increases. Another disturbing indicator of problem drinking is the occurrence of frequent drunkenness, when almost 65 percent of the students were drunk at least once in their lives, 21.3% of the students in the last 31 days, more in boys. Another worrying factor is the availability of alcoholic beverages. In the last 30 days, 61 percent of students or children under the age of 18 have purchased alcohol at least once in the store for their own use, and almost 14 percent of them have purchased alcohol repeatedly in the store, that is more than five times. 77 percent reported alcohol consumption in a restaurant, bar or disco, 18 percent of which are young people who consume alcohol in those bars, discotheques, and so on. Yesterday's information, a news report from the television newspaper, was that the inspection of the Czech Trade Inspection in restaurants showed, this is fresh information that 1500 restaurants were checked and almost 300 children were drinking alcohol. Those kids were under 16. So I think it is no fun, but that it is a serious problem of the Czech Republic, and in those rankings we really occupy the highest places in Europe regularly. In international studies in the style of school children, the so-called HBSC study, it was found in 2010 that drinking alcohol at least once a week indicated 5 percent of girls and 10 percent of boys in the 11-year-old category, 17 percent of girls and 21 percent of boys between 13-year-old and 33 percent of girls and 44 percent of boys between 15-year-olds. It's a hugely growing trend again. [[15.30 hours]] Also striking is traditionally a high degree of tolerance for Czech society to consume alcohol by young people. It is also one of the important factors, which is reflected, among other things, in statistics that point to the dangerous use of alcohol from the hands of adults, most often at family celebrations, weddings, beer festivals, wine harvests, where alcohol is offered to children by parents or relatives themselves. Let me point out, there is also a link between the current use of tobacco and the consumption of alcohol. So it's probably based on research from the State Health Institute - the risk of smoking consumers is about 74 percent and those who drink harmfully, 86 percent. There's a growing trend again. Third definition of problems are drugs, respectively. illegal drugs. I'll be a little more brief there. According to the 2013 Annual Report of the Czech Republic, published by the National Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, the scope of drug use in the general population of the Czech Republic has been stable for a long time. Although there was a slight increase in 2013. The most common used illegal drug is cannabis substances, second place ecstasy. In other places there was experience with the use of hallucinogenic mushrooms, meth, amphetamine, cocaine, LSD. In 2013, the number of problem drug users increased slightly. The median was about 44,9 thousand. persons. In particular, opioid users, meth, injecting drugs, are involved in the increase, which is about 42,000. In 2013, a total of 14 063 outpatient patients with tobacco-free alcohol-related disorders were registered in outpatient psychiatric care establishments, 8 970 men and 5 093 women. More than two thirds of patients were 20 to 39 years of age, meaning the most productive category. The number of people aged 15 to 19 reached 762 and children under 15 30. In 2013, there is a slight increase in the number of hospitalizations for disorders caused by the use of addictive substances to 15 604. However, illegal drugs remain the most common experience of cannabis use, reported by a total of 42 percent of students. The Czech Republic has again placed itself first as part of the European comparison. So you can see that the situation is serious. As in alcohol, in juvenile smoking and in some types of drugs, we come first, which is unflattering. I would like to say that the Czech Republic is the only country in the European Union where it is possible to operate a purely smoking restaurant. I have another figure here that 78 percent of Čech want to ban smoking in restaurants, which is quite a lot. And the third point, a total of 30 percent of those who started smoking before the 18th year of age, said that if a smoking ban had been imposed on these premises, they would not have started smoking at all. So that's the definition of problems. Then, of course, the second more extensive point, I will try to be a little more brief, is what the aim of the bill is, what the bill has to do with its impact. The aim of the law, as the proposal says, is to protect health from harmful effects. To make this short: the main general objective of the proposed legislation is therefore the protection of public health, especially as regards children and young people. There is a reduction in the impact of damage caused by addictive substances in social, security and economic terms. This is to strengthen protection against the effects of indirect tobacco smoke and the spread of non-smoking environments, the restriction of the availability of tobacco and related products, the introduction of new obligations for food services establishments leading to restrictions on the availability of alcohol and ensuring compliance with the prohibition on the sale or supply of alcohol to children and young people. Then, of course, there is also the organisation, coordination and implementation of national drug policies. Improving legislation in the case of detention stations, but there the problem shifts a bit into the Act on specific services. Improving the enforcement of the law and, in particular, in the context of the prohibition on the sale of alcohol and tobacco products to persons under 18 years of age. There is, of course, a proposal to extend other control bodies. There is often talk of impacts that will have a negative impact on the state budget. It's not true. There are data from 2007. All-social costs of using addictive substances, i.e. All three of them, alcohol, tobacco, and drugs, amounted to 56.2 billion. Crowns. Of this, the cost of tobacco use was about half, 33.1 billion. Crowns. For alcohol, 16.4 billion. koruna and illegal addictive substances 6,7 billion. Crowns. The aim of the law is therefore to reduce the consumption of these products, which can lead to a potential improvement in the health situation of the population in the long term and at the same time to reduce social costs. It is estimated at the impact on the state budget that a 5% reduction in the consumption of tobacco products, as well as the Act and the State Institute of Health, estimates that the number of smokers, alcoholics and drug addicts will be reduced by 5, up to 10 percent, would mean a state budget loss of around 2.1 billion. Crowns. That's a qualified guess. But reducing the annual consumption of tobacco products by 5% would mean the economic benefit of a complex of measures in the area of tobacco control, which would represent a savings of 5.5 billion. Crowns. So you can see that it's hard to say that it would have any financial benefit. This may have negative effects on business operators, of course, where this may lead to a loss of profits in the industrial sector, but, on the other hand, an increase in profits in other industrial sectors can be expected. Of course, the effects on local authorities can be because there is talk of legislation on the detention service, and this can impose a higher burden on the budget of the local authorities. This does not have a negative social impact, and environmental impacts are essentially minimal. Only in enclosed spaces can they be much bigger. So I've studied the law quite thoroughly, and I like the stratified law. I think the D.O.D.'s done it very carefully. And they always deal with smoking restrictions in food service establishments, restrictions on smoking in public places, sales of tobacco products and always these areas are dealt with in law 12 and each area has always, I will not name it here, because we would be here again half an hour longer, but it always has a zero option, then a second and third variant and variant fourth, it is always a total ban on something, a total ban on sales, a total ban on smoking. And the zero option is the current state. The fourth option is always a complete ban, and the second, third option is always on the issue, it is such a compromise solution with slight concessions. I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, the amendment of Act No. 379/2000 Sb. it is not just some invention of government or social democracy, it is also part of the implementation of the coalition agreement in the area of preventing the government's agenda. The proposal also takes into account some of the arrangements of May 2014 at the meeting of the Council of the Government for the Coordination of Drug Policy. [[15.40 hours]] Three. In the field of international law, the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control is fulfilling its obligations under the 30th Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. 8. 2012 and last but not least, the proposal for a new law transposes Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States of the European Union relating to the production, trade, sale of tobacco and related products, e.g. cross-border sales of tobacco, tobacco products, electronic cigarettes at a distance, etc. So I think that's enough for the introduction. I wanted to say that, of course, it's normal not to smoke them. According to Professor Šamánek, alcohol in increased quantities creates addiction. You know, they say that women, when they drink two ounces of wine a day, that it is a dose in a healthy organism that can be, men three to four ounces, can also be, but provided that the organism is healthy. And drugs, of course, create addiction, hallucinations, various negative symptoms, diseases, etc. In an excessive amount all three of these elements are, of course, harmful, or only in a quantity that is at least a little recommended. So what I'm saying is, normal is not to smoke, drink and not use drugs, we should realize that, too, and I've seen it in those inscriptions that normal is not to smoke, that's the most widespread drug. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-001-062.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I thank you, Mr Member, for this report and I am opening up a general debate and interrupting this point, because I am opening up another point so that we can merge the debate as we voted. So I'm opening a point.
