ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u1	143. The draft law amending Act No. 334/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund, as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 339/7 - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with its amendments. We received his resolution as a print of 339/8. Senator Martínek remains. I ask that the Minister of the Environment, Mr Brabec, speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. I would very much like to be able to comment on this proposal as positively from the point of view of the petitioner as was the case with the EIA. But unfortunately, I can't do that. You remember, when discussing this amendment, I dare say that very fundamental amendments, which have already been discussed for several years in this House, in committees and then in plenary, the Ministry of the Environment, as a petitioner, could not agree with proposals that substantially expanded cases where the consent of the authorities to the protection of the agricultural soil fund is not needed, or where the contributions for the removal of land from the agricultural soil fund are not paid. Compared to the version that came from the Ministry of the Environment and which was a compromise of individual departments already within the framework of negotiations in the House, several amendments have been adopted which have extended these exceptions. However, these were things where a compromise had taken place and which the petitioner eventually recognised as acceptable. On the other hand, the version coming from the Senate today, unfortunately, is already directly affecting the protection of the agricultural soil fund, in a negative sense. The protection of agricultural land significantly weakens there - for example in paragraph 15 of Section 9 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) it is a requirement to extend cases where the intention is not to be assessed from the point of view of the effects on the agricultural soil fund, and this requirement does not apply only to the payment of levies, but it resigns entirely to the protection of agricultural land in general, as the fund for such constructions would not be subject to an assessment under this law at all. For example, it is similar in Section 9 of the Bible. (a) point 17 and on several other points. [[15.20 hours]] I must say that in the Senate negotiations, whether in committees, then in the Senate plenary, we tried to point out that there are some amendments that would be acceptable to us. For example, the requirement for land municipal roads to reach the same level as state communication from the point of view of the impact on this law. But there are things that, in our view, greatly increase the scope of the exemptions and therefore reduce the protection of the agricultural soil fund. Unfortunately, we have not been able to convince the majority in the Senate that these arguments are valid, and therefore I really must say, although I do not like to say that if a version of the law were approved with these amendments from the Senate, the purpose and purpose of the amendment to the law would be significantly impaired, and that would be to protect the agricultural land fund, the agricultural land that we know and I have talked about here in the House is about 5 000 hectares a year. After all, the protection of the agricultural soil fund is, of course, part of the government's programming declaration. This means that, unfortunately, the six amendments will not allow us to prepare those that could be accepted and that we would certainly be willing to talk about, but there are proposals so far beyond the threshold that I have to reject the proposal categorically as a whole, because it is really making a significant reduction in the protection of the agricultural soil fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u3	Thank you. I shall first ask the rapporteurs, Mrs Pěnčíková, Mr Kott and Mr Kořenko, if any of them wish to speak. It's not like that. I'm still sorry - Mr. Vozka? He's not interested either. Well, in that case, I am opening the debate and I ask Senator Martínek to speak first. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u4	Hello again, fellow Members. Unfortunately, I must say that I too have to say that this bill is unfortunately somewhat more complicated than the first one I defended here. And I would like to say that this is a draft law which, if it is adopted in a parliamentary version or if it is not adopted at all, will hit the cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic in a very serious way. We all agree here that it is necessary to protect agricultural land, and I dare say that the majority in this Chamber of Deputies has thousands of examples of how agricultural land has been senselessly lost. Unfortunately, I have to say that in most cases this has been done with the consent of those who are supposed to protect the land. Because without the consent of the authorities protecting the agricultural soil fund, nothing can be done in this Republic. The only exception, perhaps some extenuating circumstances, are the famous power plants, solar power plants, where it is a temporary construction and where those who have often occupied the highest quality of land have made use of this rule and have essentially avoided the opinion of the authorities to guard the decline in the agricultural soil fund. I am very sorry that I have to disagree with the Minister, but unfortunately I have to say how this law was negotiated in the Senate. Unfortunately, the committees that discussed this proposal sounded only one and only word on all the proposals from the Ministry, and that is 'no'. It is true that, although the Minister then expressed some conviction at the House plenary that he might agree to something, as you all know, here in the Chamber of Deputies, and in the Senate, the subject for discussion, substantive discussion and argument is precisely on the committees. And unfortunately, I have to say there, and I am very sorry that there has simply been no substantive debate on this matter. I must very much oppose any change and reduction in the protection of the agricultural soil fund by adopting the Senate version. All of you who are dealing with this issue know that the land planning documentation is crucial to how the land is managed. In the planning documentation, it simply clearly has an authority that protects agricultural land - the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and, in principle, all state authorities have the right to veto. Without the consent of these authorities, nothing can be incorporated into any territorial plan that would harm the agricultural soil fund. And that, in my opinion and opinion, is the platform on which the Senate should discuss how to use agricultural land or how to enable municipalities, cities and regions to develop economically. Unfortunately, as I say, we have to look at the law here too - he doesn't create the law without context. And I would like to draw your attention, fellow Members, to one more thing. This law is very closely, directly connected with the VAT amendment law, which concerns the prices of construction land, and is very much related, of course, to the EIA adopted a moment ago. When we put together all these bills, unfortunately they are discussed here as each individual. But in that end, the end user will end up as one whole. And if there was a real increase in agricultural land during the VAT Act, respectively. VAT-related construction land, and I would like to point out again that what has been said here and what has been said in the Senate is a law against developers, but developers are usually VAT payers, so if VAT is ordered, they will deduct it again. But this VAT will be quite clear to end users, i.e. builders of family houses, builders of apartments, but unfortunately also on cities and municipalities that are not VAT payers. As far as this bill is concerned, I will only allow you to briefly describe the various provisions contained in this resolution. So let's go to point 1. I suppose the Minister, when he spoke of Section 15, spoke of point 1 of the bill. However, I would again like to remind myself that it has not yet been the rule for so-called. construction of nothing of significance, i.e. buildings up to 25 square meters were subject to purchase, i.e. payments for the replacement of the agricultural soil fund. It will practically mean that any of you in your own garden will build any construction of this small scale, such as. garage, gazebo, garden cabin etc., so after this law becomes effective they will be very surprised because at that moment they will pay for the farm farm fund. In the same way, all these proposals relate only to buildings that are in the public interest. Not in the interest of any developers or anything. So that is paragraph 1 of the House resolution. As regards point 2, there the Senate merely specified the wording of the law in that sense in order to comply with the construction law. Again, it concerns a specific matter of determining the public interest. When I read the diction of the law as it has been submitted to us, public interest can only be applied if the buildings are within the territorial planning documentation, whether territorial plans or the principles of territorial development. I just want to remind myself that some things are not mentioned in the principles of territorial development. That means, there's this dispute about whether it's in the public interest or not, it's appropriate, and it concerns for example. such things as a line of less than 110 kW. Because they are simply introduced only in the zoning plan, but they are not in the principles of territorial development at all. And in this case, it's just an opinion whether it's in the public interest or not. [[15.30 hours]] If the Senate's proposal in point 3 is not adopted, I think it is in principle the worst in its own way, because the wording of the Chamber of Deputies actually approved that, as far as state buildings are concerned, this means I. class roads, express roads and motorways, so the agricultural land fund is not paid for, but it will be the opposite for the regions and municipalities. And unfortunately, at this point, neither can the argument of the Ministry, with which it came to the Senate at the hearing, that it is actually hindering only the fact that money is being poured from one to the other pocket. Unfortunately, the fact is that part of the funds goes into the municipal budget, so if this law is approved in this version, unfortunately I have to say that while the state will not pay the municipalities anything, the municipalities will pay the state for the construction of local roads and roads II. and III. Class. The argument here is that no new roads are being built, which is not true and a number of, for example, bypasses of smaller towns or municipalities take place on roads II. and III. classes, and I guarantee you that if this text is adopted as it is, these roads will simply not be built. As far as municipalities are concerned, it does not apply in municipalities that new roads are not being built. On the contrary! For all housing construction, you must build appropriate communication, local communication and all local communication will be very expensive in this way. Point 4 solves the problem of publicly beneficial buildings on a pawnable surface, that is, where approval has already been given from the authorities protecting the agricultural soil fund. These are, for example, sports facilities or children's playgrounds. And once again, I would like to point out that if the House of Deputies is approved, in many cases, it will mean that the payments for exemption from the agricultural soil fund will be more expensive than the value of the entire construction. Point 5 is a point I may have heard was a consensus, and it doesn't have anything to do with anything other than where it took place... Sorry, point 5 concerns industrial zones. There you approved, or the Chamber of Deputies approved, that industrial zones which are basically built by 2014 or are on the zoning plan by 2014, of which no levy is payable, but then yes. I think that this is rather strange, if the zones that should be built in the future should be in a different position than those currently built, in addition, when the authorities in charge of the agricultural soil fund are already sure, and it is clear that if the law is adopted in this way, it will be clear to them that it is when approving changes to the territorial plan that must decide whether the area is usable or not. Unfortunately, I must point out that this does not concern large zones, which are provided by the fact that they are essentially included in the plans of the Ministry of Industry, and I consider this to be absolutely correct, but on the other hand, unfortunately, it concerns small zones for individual municipalities and cities, which are simply of local importance, and I say again, they are zones that have consent to be built up from the authorities to defend the agricultural land fund. And last of all, that's what I've been up to, so it's just a problem where territorial changes are currently taking place, but they're not finished, so the price list follows the new law as it's adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to have held you up for a long time, but I really consider this proposal to be particularly significant and its impact on the development of cities and municipalities is essential, and that is why I have taken the liberty of delaying you for as long as I have delayed you. Finally, I want to reiterate two things. Nothing can be done, according to the Senate text, without the consent of the authorities that maintain the agricultural soil fund. This means that these authorities are not excluded from all of this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u5	Good afternoon. I thank the senator. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, please understand. I would like to ask you - after the end of the debate before the vote - for 15 minutes at the TOP 09 meeting and please ask the club members to gather at the club's premises immediately after the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u7	Mr President, please, do you mean now or after the debate? [[After the debate, after you have announced a break.]] Yes, I will, Mr. Chairman. Now with priority rights, Mr President of the ANO Faltýnek Parliamentary Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will try to be very brief, and I would just react briefly to the information that was said here, particularly from the mouth of Senator Martínek. He must be right in that this law has a broader context and is related to a number of other laws and, in particular, I would highlight the sentence he said completely in the conclusion that from his point of view, or from the perspective of the changes that have been adopted in the Senate, it is an effort to ensure the development of cities and municipalities. That is true, in this, through the President, Mr Senator, we will certainly agree. However, I would return briefly to history, why the amendment of this law was actually made and how difficult it was to seek compromise, because I suppose most of us know that one inch of the eagle has been formed for a hundred years. I guess most of us have that information. On the other hand, the current government coalition has in its government statement and in the government's programme efforts to promote new jobs. So we have been rather hard looking for a compromise between individual resorts and the interests of individual resorts, whether it was the Ministry of Agriculture, which also has a sentence in the coalition contract that we will protect the agricultural soil fund, and the Ministry of Trade Industry, CzechInvest, the Ministry of Regional Development and other authorities concerned, who, in turn, were interested in releasing exclusion from the agricultural soil fund, in order to support the construction of investment units, of course, in industrial zones of municipalities and create new jobs. So the compromise was very difficult to look for, and the things that the Senate managed to work through in the amendment, so we discussed them within the Chamber of Deputies. We discussed them on the Committee on Agriculture, on the Economic Committee, on other committees where this amendment was discussed. For myself or for the agricultural committee, I can say that the House version was a compromise that took into account the protection of the agricultural soil fund and at the same time the possibility of creating new jobs, and I have actually mentioned here two cases why I was actually one of the promoters of this amendment, and on this we also agreed with the opposition that it was necessary to correct a certain error that had happened in the past due to the development of photovoltaics, when the previous government or the previous government responded to the stopping of arable land by photovoltaic power plants by this very law, when the exemption fees for arable land increased significantly, and it was due in particular to photovoltaic power plants. So I would just like to conclude by saying that the debate in our club and, of course, also in the coalition was not easy, but we would prefer to lean to the House version and then have a quick debate on the possibility of supplementing the subsequent regulation of the law with the things that have fallen and are meaningful in the Senate, and I certainly think that we are also able to find common ground with the Senate to correct it so that the law is then ideal. So much very briefly on my part for our parliamentary club after today's meeting, when we discussed this very intensively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u9	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Mr Michal Kučera, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u10	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this proposal for a Senate law has caused quite a lot of opposition to the professional public in particular. We have received a number of letters and e-mails from representatives of the professional society and the professional public who oppose the adoption of this very Senate version. I don't know if most of you - I don't think most of you had the opportunity to get to know the results from the professional public, given that we didn't have the opportunity to discuss this Senate proposal logically in committees where there would be room for that. Therefore, allow me, as chairman of the subcommittee, to introduce you to the content of the most serious information that has just been given in letters from experts. I would be the first to mention a letter from the Czech Pedological Society, i.e. profesor doktor Bořivoj Šarapatka, which you have certainly received and which you have become acquainted with, and here I would quote where profesor Šarapatka writes that the company was concerned by the exceptions in the resolutions of the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment, the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport of the Senate and subsequently in the Senate resolution of 14 January. These are amendments, and this was mentioned by the Minister of the Environment, in particular in paragraph 15 of Section 9. There are the most serious changes which concern, in particular, exemptions and softening the conditions relating to land holdings and the setting of fees for such withdrawal. I must say that the Czech Pedological Society strongly opposed the adoption of a Senate amendment. She also spoke out against the Commission for the Environment of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, by the mouth of its President, doktor Radim Šrám. I am here to quote literally some of the passages of this letter because I think they are very serious, and I think that they should actually be heard here in this plenary. So I quote: In its programme statement, the Government of the Czech Republic committed itself to strengthening the protection of arable land and soil fund. However, it submitted an amendment to the law which reduces the fees for land use, which constitute a unique, only a genuinely effective economic instrument for soil protection. The current amount of land use fees is not enough to motivate developers to make greater use of old industrial sites, so-called Brownfields, or less attractive unbuilt territory. In ecologically sensitive areas, the fee is no longer to be multiplied by all environmental weighting coefficients, but only by one highest coefficient. The Chamber of Deputies extended the exemption and the Senate pushed for another dramatic increase in exceptions. Lower fees for land use should apply to all motorways and roads, including related transport structures, or state-supported industrial buildings or production halls and warehouses included in the municipal or regional planning at any time in the past and in the future. Furthermore, the members of the Commission for the Environment of the Czech Academy of Sciences stated that due to the constantly declining quality of the soil, the Czech landscape was unable to absorb excessive rainfall. Soil free of organic matter cannot bind water that could be available for crops in dry periods. Annual losses on the natural capital of agricultural land and agricultural production amount to tens of billions of crowns. Although the amendment to the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund proposes a number of positive measures, e.g. extending the competence of the Czech Environmental Inspection in the field of the protection of the quality of agricultural land, Senate exemptions disturb the meaning of legal soil protection and lead to a large increase in destruction of quality agricultural land in our country and possible future food shortages. We believe that the Senate's amendments should be opposed because they do not fit their purpose, that is soil protection. So many quotes from the Commission's letter to the Environment Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. The last letter I would like to mention here is more or less the support of this opinion of the Academy of Sciences Commission, and it is an expression of the Czech Society for Landscape Ecology, which has expressed its support for the opinion of the Academy of Sciences. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these expert arguments, which should, of course, be heard in the committees, and from the logic of the matter, I have mentioned them today in the House, in the House plenary, these expert arguments will convince you that you will not support the Senate version of the Law on the Agricultural Soil Fund. I want to say that the TOP 09 and the starosta will also do so, even though there are some points in the Senate proposal that would, of course, be worth discussing further. It's for example. removal of land for family houses from the agricultural soil fund. But, of course, these are perhaps things for further discussion. I would therefore like to call on you not to support the Senate version of the law, just as TOP 09 will do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u11	I thank Mr Kučer. Now with priority rights Mr. Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Mrs Pěnčíková will have to wait a little longer. Thank you for your understanding, colleague. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u12	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. When this amendment started to form and the Ministry of the Environment prepared it and put it into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, we had a really long debate about where to find the edge between it still protect the agricultural soil fund, quality arable land in the Czech Republic, and how to meet the interests of those who want to create new jobs in the Czech Republic. The submitted document, which was finally settled by the Ministry of the Environment, which was discussed by the Government and approved by the Chamber of Deputies, is a compromise of the possible time when we can still talk about the amendment being and can bear the name of the amendment on the protection of the agricultural soil fund, as the law sounds. Anything else that the Senate has now prepared, and has prepared a rather large range of exceptions here, I think it's really going beyond what I just said. One thing surprises me a little bit in the discussion and I ask myself, where was the voice of municipalities and regions in the inter-ministerial commentary proceedings when they received this material. Why they didn't call and say: we have some arguments to make some adjustments. Why did it go all the way to the Senate? And at this point, I say that I, as Minister of Agriculture, stand by to approve the original proposal that was discussed by the House, and if there are any justified, other exceptional cases, then let us discuss them and, if necessary, return to them. At this point, I really do not see any reason to accept the proposed material that came to us from the Senate, to the extent that it is presented to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u13	I thank the Minister. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kaňkovský. No, he's not interested. Mr. Senator, please. Following it with priority rights, the President of the ODS Parliamentary Club. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u14	Thank you. I would say one thing through you to the Minister. The amendments tabled here by the Senate are all on the proposals tabled by the Union of Cities and Municipalities and the Association of Regions, and they have presented it throughout the proceedings, as well as, as someone mentioned here, that this has already been discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies. So the problem is, no one responded. I'm sorry to have to stall again, but it really needs to be said what is in that paragraph 15 of Section 9, which is such an intervention in the protection of the agricultural soil fund. This item contains the following three points: Firstly, on the land listed in the approved territorial planning documentation, that is to say, on land with which the authority protecting the agricultural fund has given its consent and which are intended for the construction of buildings, facilities of civic amenities or buildings and facilities of medical, cultural, educational and church facilities. Point 1. [[15.50 hours]] Point 2 - for the construction of garages, garden cottages, recreation cottages, small cottages with an area of up to 25 m2, buildings with additional functions in the construction of the main, the construction of a wine cellar in a pauseable area, if it is owned by a natural person, that means the property must be owned by a natural person, and the removal of which is to take place only in the interests of the person who owns it. - That's what I've been telling you. These are gardens, fields, and other things that these people really own. And buildings up to 25 m2, Minister, up until now they haven't been the subject of the agricultural soil fund, that's new. And thirdly, they are buildings for housing in a pawnable area, in an area that is approved by the authorities that prevent agricultural land.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u15	Thank you, Mr. Senator. Now with priority rights, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Senator said something. In our club we have had the views of the Union of Towns and Municipalities since the beginning of the discussion of this press. The government ignoring them is another matter. Then don't blame them for where they were. From the very beginning, they wanted the same thing that went through the Senate. We talked about this here in the Chamber of Deputies. It's not true someone overslept something. It is true that the government rejected their comments, respectively. Department, I don't know if it was up to the government, if it was settled. We see how the fundamental comments of the municipalities are dealt with. A fundamental reminder of the municipalities - disapproval, and then we have - all comments are settled. That's how it works. There was an election three months ago. I would say that almost all the MPs that sit in this House have colleagues at the town hall, and you do not want to allow them to carry out their zoning plan. The government insists hard on its own instead of taking back a little bit and saying, "The Senate proposal is reasonable." We want to support the sensible development of municipalities. We're talking about-- all bypasses aren't really on state property. The southern bypass of Opava is building a county. It's communication II. Class. You are holding back the development of municipalities by economic instruments and at the same time you say what you say very often: We know that this is not quite good, but I promise, within a year and within a day or a month and I will bring another amendment to the day. We can work this out today. We don't have to write another novel. Just listen a little bit to your colleagues in the community. The state is no smarter than 6 245 mayors and 14 captains. It just isn't. The creation of a zoning plan is very complicated, and before any outcome occurs, it is a very complicated process in which the authorities intervene in the performance of the administration. Each of us who has ever brought a zoning plan to the council or a change in the zoning plan since the adoption and approval process knows how complicated it is. And you're actually saying, you're not going to build there. State maybe, we need it, we do, we do, we do, we do, we do, but we don't care about your interests. But don't live in that big city. Look, the bypasses are on second, third classes. Or even on local roads. Imagine that there are also cities and municipalities that build communication on their land. And they'll pay. Not to myself, right? That's the problem that's key, and you're actually saying to representatives and mayors, we don't care about your problems. Pay harder. We're the trustees. Not with the state, that's what we want, but with you, we don't give a shit. That is why we will vote in favour of the Senate version, because it is simply better and goes towards self-government. And I, who has worked in self-government for years, have respect for everyone who has managed to approve the zoning plan, and I regret those to whom the courts are destroying either the principles of territorial development or the individual territorial plans, because this is what the entire territory suffers, and thus the citizens of that territory suffer. That's what you have to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u17	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u18	And I have something to tell you. And I'll say it. It's just not true. A colleague of Stanjura. You didn't give us the lights. We were in the interdepartment during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u19	Please, Minister, through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u20	How could I do that! By your means, of course, my colleague. We actually negotiated in the interdepartment, Mr Stanjur, through you. Your way. [[He's pointing to the President.]] We negotiated these comments within the inter-ministerial framework of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the compromise that appeared there in the parliamentary version, precisely that the land up to 5,000 metres in the clearance, is the compromise that was reached in the inter-ministerial area with the Union of Towns and Municipalities. And what came out of the Senate means that again, for any living in a pawnable area anywhere, that means such a horrible settlement mash that any construction is allowed, it is freely possible and accessible again, and is excluded from this case. And these are exactly the things that we wanted to prevent and where the agreement has indeed been, Mr colleague, through you, Mr President, for Mr Stanjura. That means, it's not that we arrogantly wiped out all the comments that we don't care about. We were interested, and that's when we reached the agreement. Unfortunately, it has now reappeared in this absolutely impenetrable extent, which means that it is actually excluded from the assessment of the impact on the agricultural soil fund of anything that concerns housing, and we think that it is beyond the edge and that it really is no longer related to the protection of the agricultural soil fund, because we want to place buildings outside the agricultural soil fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u21	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u22	First of all, I'd like to ask the Minister not to speak to me as a pub friend. You can really keep that, Minister. You're in the government. I know, of course, that I didn't give you the so-called light. But what did you say? I, the Minister of the Environment, will decide if there will be any, as you said, horror in the village at the other end of the Republic. That means you think you're smarter than the council of those communities. You're the most enlightened person in the country to say if it's a suitable development or not. Whether the houses are nice or not. And how are you going to prevent the construction, Minister? Try to answer me. How are you going to prevent the construction in the approved zoning documentation? How are you going to stop her? All you want is money, nothing else! I didn't say you were arrogant, you're protesting something I didn't say. I said you insist hard on your own. I wasn't talking about arrogance at all. You made that up so you'd have a way of protesting or something. But why do you think you're smarter than the council? How many zoning plans have you personally designed and enforced? I don't think either. I don't blame you. But why do you think the state is smarter than the government? That's not why. An impeccable permit. It is not impeccable to obtain a building permit within the territorial planning commission. It's very complicated. Try it sometime. Maybe someone else is handling it for you, and it seems simple to you. It's very difficult to get a building permit for an ordinary garage. Try it sometime, how long it takes and how many months. Usually obtaining a permit takes longer than the construction itself. So what kind of impeccable building authorisation? When it is intended for development and housing in the zoning plan, the Minister of the Environment says: we will not allow such horror. I really don't understand. You probably called it exactly when you said it wasn't, but according to your performance, I'd say it is, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u23	I thank Mr Stanjur. Finally, Mrs Pěnčíková, after whom Mr Bendl. Sorry. A real point, Mr. Ambassador? Oh, you didn't say that. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u24	I apologize to my colleague, but I really only applied in a quick response to what the Minister said. You can address me almost directly, Minister, because we went to that pub together and even worked on Kladno's zoning plan once. But as soon as you have something in the zoning plan, no authority to protect the Agricultural Soil Fund, when it's already in the zoning plan, will forbid anyone to build anything. He's just gonna pick out the money. That is what you want from people who, Mr. absent Minister of Agriculture, are only discussing the Law on the Agricultural Soil Fund, so I'm surprised that the Minister of Agriculture is not here again. But all those who want to finish their garage, just like you, Minister, when you only wanted to push through a stupid billboard somewhere, there was a need to do some construction somewhere, so you'll have to pay from ZPF in the designated area for development. You won't forbid it. You just want more money from people for the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u25	I thank Mr Bendl, who is now duly registered - I apologize, Mr Jaroslav Borka, with a factual remark. No, okay. Finally, Mrs Pěnčíková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u26	Hello. Finally, thank you for your word. I'm gonna turn it around a little bit. I'll be brief because a lot of things have already been said here, so I'm not going to discuss it again. Anyway, first of all, I would like to say that when I read this Senate lawsuit, I felt that Edgar Alan Poe had come back from the dead to write another story. The argument of some senators made me feel really similar to when I read his jáma and pendulum. The Senate's proposal has nothing to do with soil protection at all, but nothing at all. As my colleague Faltýnek mentioned here, one centimeter of the eagle has been growing for over a hundred years. And none of us are going to speed up here, ladies and gentlemen. So we're really not in a position to give out. I've already considered that it might be better to rename the law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund as a law to support development projects. We, as a club, wouldn't support it, but at least we'd be clear about it. I took a vote from the third reading of this law on 12 December last year here in the House and the votes for our version were 135 out of 166 Members present. I'd just like to point out that the Senate didn't basically put anything new in there. We've had these proposals here, we've dealt with them, and we've passed the law the way we approved it. Maybe some of you will find out that they didn't actually know what they were voting for back then, which we already know here. But I appeal to your common sense and your responsibility. Think about it and don't vote for the Senate. And just to conclude. The government's programming statement and the resort have been mentioned several times today The Ministry of Agriculture says: The government will strengthen the protection of high-quality arable land and soil fund. So show me you meant it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u27	Thank you, Mrs Pěnčíková. Mr Bendl, now duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u28	Thank you for the floor - this time proper applications. I'll go back to the beginning, which Mr. Faltýnek has done here. Yes, the law we're changing was one of the rescue brakes of the previous government that wanted to prevent it from being called. temporary buildings in the form of photovoltaic power plants instead of barley grew in fields. And we're saying today that we want to change that standard, and that's okay. At the same time, we're talking about the details of how the agricultural soil fund works or doesn't work. I would like to beg as a person who has been paid by a professional for a few years to work precisely on territorial plans, to stress here what maybe some people here still do not understand, that in the creation of a territorial plan, all the important authorities of the government, the body of protection of the agricultural soil fund, the Ministry of the Environment, the Regional Authority, all the other institutions that you don't even think of, their names, how many state organisations are expressing themselves at all because they have some cable or something like that leads by this or that village, and you are staring at who needs to express themselves about the territorial plan - but, well, be it. It's just the zoning plan - the scales are being considered by local citizens. Maybe they want to expand their garden so their children can build a family home somewhere on their plot. This is a legitimate requirement, because cities and municipalities are just growing and we hope so, or at least I think so. But, of course, there are many regulators. So whoever has ever been involved in the process of the zoning plan, which lasts months, sometimes unfortunately even years, especially in the larger territorial units, so there is simply some consideration on the scales, what else can be allowed, what can not be done. There the state has significantly many competences to say: Here I protect the agricultural soil fund. There is no further development of the community. And you're not gonna build that garage that the Minister of the Environment wants to defend here because he says he's gonna stop it by paying more money to get rid of it. So the rich won't mind, and you probably want to hit the poor with your hat that way. I don't know if that's a good way to go, but so be it. All I'm saying is that what really protects the agricultural soil fund for the future and prevents those pseudoindustrial zones from coming into existence, and that's okay, so it's a zoning plan. Everything else or what we're talking about here in the Agricultural Soil Fund Protection Act, it shouldn't be called that at all. This is the Act on the fee for exemption from the agricultural soil fund. And there you can see, of course, who prefers who, who wants to do politics, who I want money from and who I don't want it from. On the one hand, the government says: "No tax increases." Especially the YES movement says: "No tax increases, but for the garage extension, sweetheart, you can pay for that." That's so inconspicuous, because nobody thinks it's a tax increase. But I'm protecting the farmland fund. Mushrooms! All I'm saying is, "You can build it there, but you'll just pay more for the garage or the extension of the house, 'cause you need more and you need to build up." And so is what Senator Radko Martínek said when he said it had something to do with the other Dephey laws. You helped those developers in the VAT Act. He said it here with such diplomatic expression or sentences not to offend the government and the government as such, but basically as an opposition, I'm going to say it hard: You just went to the developers, because they're going to subtract it from you, whereas the private person or the natural person who wants to build a family home will just pay for it. Well, just say it -- we want the developers, and the bigger ones, and we're gonna load them with no one here to deduct it from the costs. Here, the natural person will pay the minister to his State Environmental Fund the money he wants to distribute. That's the truth! Yes. The Minister of the Environment here tells me: It's for the municipalities! Against his decision and against the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment, because the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development was fundamentally opposed to giving more money to municipalities. Now the Minister of the Environment here tells me: But they will get municipalities. No, we proposed as citizens' democrats that the municipalities should have a little more of it, because it concerns their development, and they did not have ten percent, but forty. Finally, 30% of the exemption from the agricultural soil fund went into the municipal budget. Well, thank God for that. This is certainly good news for the municipalities, because they will have to invest in things that have also been mentioned here. Local communication - each one of you who is from a small town or a larger one, because local communication in each neighborhood is catastrophic. And one of the biggest investments that awaits the future of the city and the municipality is money in local infrastructure of this type. That's why we're arguing about not having to go to the local roads to exempt from the agricultural soil fund, because I have a personal experience of making the pavement from Lán down towards Stochov, so the exclusion from the agricultural soil fund was worth - the pavement so that people could walk the bus not on the road at all, but on the sidewalk - it cost more exemption from the agricultural soil fund than the actual realization of the pavement. And we want to change that, I hope, at least together, or in the words of President Faltýnek, that change is simply necessary. We need to come out of the practical things that come out of practice more closely. That is why I want to thank the senators for not taking into account any comments from the Union of Towns and Communities and Regions, unlike the Minister of Agriculture, who basically admitted here today that he did not even know about them. We really talked about them on individual committees. And what the senators bring, I think it brings practice, or it brings practice to the senators, and we should meet them. As politically as I am on a completely different side of the barricade, I would like to express my approval and full support for the Senate proposal for what the senators are coming between us. [[16.10 hours]] Maybe the last thing I wanted to say to those here who think that in the Czech Republic, how we protect - because when you say agricultural soil fund, everyone imagines the ploughed field, the lumps of clay. So I just want to remind those who don't know that if a farmer decides he doesn't want to plow anymore, he's gonna waste some land and he's gonna turn it into a meadow, so the state's gonna let him do it, but if he decides that the meadow he plowed five years ago wants to plow again and plant there again, the state's gonna say no, no, no, there's a high level of peeing in the Czech Republic, there's no way that's out of the question. So just for those of you who are fighting so hard for the farmland fund, you're more fighting for the meadows than for the ploughed fields, because the Czech Republic is already preventing farmers from getting more ploughed. They even prevent what I wanted to come up with in the Chamber of Deputies so that farmers can at least exchange - where they have fields today and somewhere else they have meadows or permanent grassland, professionally TTP, so that at least 50: 50 or 100: 100 can exchange the space. I can't. So there's no need to fight in the breasts for the fact that this law is about protecting the agricultural soil fund. It's about collecting money from people for the Ministry of the Environment and the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u29	I thank Mr Bendl. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to be brief and contribute my little bit to the mill. First, a short remark. There was a lot of talk about the garage problem. I don't know if I misunderstood the law, the House, but there the garages, or virtually. small buildings are already part of the exception that does not fall within the exemption from the agricultural soil fund, which means that if we are building a garage at our family house, we are not paying anything for it according to the House. But maybe somebody wants to build a garage somewhere in the open, somewhere in the field, so of course they do. That's what my point is. Otherwise, listening to the debate here, it almost seemed to me that the House version simply hinders further development and further construction at all costs, but I do not think that it is. The House press, which has simply passed here, for which it has voted across the spectrum, I think more than 130 Members, and has just taken into account various aspects, there have been various settlement procedures, the inter-ministerial process has passed, and I think it is such an appropriate compromise. I'd argue with the Senate version a little bit here. You know, the bill is called, and it has already been said, she said it, I think, Mrs Pěnčíková, the law is called the protection of the agricultural soil fund. It's not a law on construction or a law on line construction, it's a law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund. And if we accept here amendments from the Senate, at least some of them, of course there are also relevant ones, such as roads, there I think there is some disproportion where the state is favoured against self-government, self-governing units, there would be some discussion there, but there are at least three amendments that simply go against the meaning of the law. And either we want to protect the land or we don't. And it's not just about some land. It also has a link to the protection of water resources, as well as to the protection of flood protection. I mean, let's just assume that if we take out the land and build a house or a lobby, no one will ever put it back. That's one thing. Well, then, to the particular changelings. What bothers me about the Senate version is that, for example, in one amendment, it extends the list of those exceptions where it may no longer go into the decision-making procedure for the exclusion from the agricultural soil fund. That law actually has two tools to protect the soil. For one thing, this is the decision-making of the administrative authority and, on the other, a system of charges designed to motivate investors to choose the land that is not economically valuable. This means, above all, brownfields and less valuable land. Both of these instruments are being hacked by the Senate proposal. First of all, as I said before, the extension of those exceptions, which will not actually come into the administrative procedure for the withdrawal from the agricultural soil fund, and, secondly, the extension of the exemptions actually exempting the land from the payment or the charges. That's two things like that. Another such thing, which was part of the House's proposal, was that the existing industrial zones were taken into account. This was taken into account, in particular the Ostrava industrial zone and others, which had already been developed and where a number of investors had already invested, and there was a concern that these or the land in these zones would not remain vacant, so for this reason the institute or the date was established there, until when or in what validity of the specific territorial plans it could still be included. In fact, this particular date has completely disappeared, which means it opens up space for new developers to build on green meadows. There's no deadline. Yes, it was there in the original by the end of 2014 and it doesn't apply to new ones anymore. In this Senate proposal, there is no such strict date, which means it opens up simply - yes, here we plan a new industrial zone and we can already follow this Senate proposal. So these are the basic things that bothers me about the Senate, and that's why I'm not voting for him. I will vote in favour of the original House, which I believe is an appropriate compromise. Of course, then, in the future, we can sometimes consider including the relevant Senate proposals, see, for example, the communications, in some other amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u31	Thank you, Mr Zemek. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to apologize to your colleague Stanjur, if he felt I was shouting at him. I always get a little excited at the counter, but he's doing it too, so hopefully he'll forgive me. But I would like to say that this amendment is certainly not perfect, as little as we are able to do not only in this House, but I mean to unload anywhere as humans. It's just always about compromises. However, I believe that the compromise that was in the House version is closer to that imaginary perfection than the Senate proposal that goes beyond the edge. Therefore, after considering all the circumstances and after hearing all the comments, and taking into account what Senator Martínek said, I would ask you to vote in favour of the original, the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u33	I thank the Minister. The senator is not interested in the final word. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. However, the TOP 09 and the starosta asked for a quarter-hour break at the meeting of the MP. I apologize to the Prime Minister. So I'm declaring a 15-hour break. I'll meet you here at 16.32. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u34	Dear colleagues, there has been a pause at the meeting of the TOP 09 and the Mayors, and with priority rights the President, Mr Kalousek, is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, according to our custom, to introduce you to the position of the TOP 09 and the Mayors on this bill. In our opinion, the government proposal approved by the Chamber of Deputies a while ago was very bad and unacceptable. We said our reservations, we voted against him. The Senate proposal, which returns here with amendments, although sympathetic on one or two points, complements the unacceptable draft by many other unacceptable points and it is difficult to judge which draft we consider less acceptable. Whether the one approved by the Chamber of Deputies or the one proposed by the Senate. In our opinion, both of them are very bad. Neither one nor the other should be approved. If there was a standard situation and the government coalition as a compact body would have a unified view of it, we would probably vote actively against both models, because, after all, the government majority would still have their own. In the real situation that is, however, we do not want to be the ones who will whistle the government coalition, whether the wrong proposal will pass. Or bad design B. You will have to clarify this among yourselves, colleagues, and that is why the TOP 09 Members will turn off and not take part in the vote on a law they do not want to have anything to do with. It's your responsibility. God be with you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-003-143.u36	I thank the President of the TOP 09 and the starosta. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. Before I bring forward the motion for a resolution, I will sign you all off first. Please sign up with your voting cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending Act No. 334/1992 Coll., on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund, as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended, according to the House of Press 339/7, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House of Press 339/8." I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 85, 158 Members of Parliament registered, for 47, against 89. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Please, set up for volume 101. It's set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No.334/1992 Coll., on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund, as amended, and Act No.388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended, as referred to by the Senate, pursuant to the House Press No.39/7. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 86, registered to 158 Members of Parliament, for 130 Members and Members, against 5. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have agreed to the bill. I thank the Minister and the Senator, and I conclude with this point. The next item is:
