ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the fourth day of the 36th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I say that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence: Mr Adam from 12 o'clock - health reasons, Mrs Balaštíková - family reasons, Mr Benešík - family reasons, Mr Beznoska - working grounds, Mr Fiedler from 13.30 am - family Zlatuška, Mr Hájek - working grounds, Mrs Hubáčková - foreign travel, Mr Kořenek - foreign road, Mr Mihola - foreign road, Mrs Němcová from 13 o'clock - personal reasons, Mr Nykl - health reasons, Mrs Pastuchová from 11.30 am - working grounds, Mr Pilný - working grounds, Mrs Putnová - foreign road, Member Rykala - personal reasons, Member Sedlář - foreign trips, Member Schwarzenberg within 13 o'clock - working grounds, Zavadil Stupčuk - working grounds, Mrs Váhalová - foreign road, Member Vácha - working grounds, Member - working grounds, Mr Vondrášek - foreign Member - working grounds, Mr Zaladek. The Prime Minister apologizes from the members of the government - foreign travel, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek within 13 hours - working reasons, Minister Marksová from the morning meeting - working reasons, Minister Mládek - foreign travel, Minister Němeček - foreign travel, Minister Pelikán from the labour grounds, Minister Šlechtová - foreign travel, Minister Ťok - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek - health reasons. We should therefore continue with the fixed points, but I have received a number of applications for the agenda. [[Noise in the hall.]] Before we open the show, I ask President Kolovratník to speak with the announcement of the time limit for the election, and then I will give the floor to all those who are logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, good morning and thank you for the floor. I asked for space here before we embark on today's program, and I'd just like to get the club presidents on a microphone because we didn't make the election this week. We do not expect to vote until the week of 8 December, so I am declaring a new deadline for the proposal for amendments to the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline is until Monday, December 7th until 13:00. We will, of course, send you information by electronic means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. And now here I have... Probably priority rights first. So President Stanjura had the first priority right, then President Fiala was, then President Kalousek, if that's how I got it right. Then Mr. Chairman Black. So first, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Mr. Vondráček card number 6. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. First of all, I would like to introduce you to such a small statistic as this 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On Tuesday we approved her show and we had 212 points on the agenda. We discussed 39 in the first three days, which leaves 173 points. On the agenda we still have 88 out of a total of 92 bills in the first reading, i.e. so far we have made four proposals in the first reading. We also have 22 of the total of 30 bills to discuss at second reading. We made 8 proposals in the first three days at second reading. We have all the laws left in third reading - logically, because we have not yet had a third reading, i.e. 34 bills. We still have two of the four laws that the Senate has returned. We've already discussed two on Tuesday. So if we add it up like this, we're going to get to 146 bills in front of us. We are short of discussing one contract out of a total of 16 contracts. We're done with 15. Thanks to last night's dinner. Election points, spoken of by the President of the Election Commission, are still waiting for us in the second or third week of the sitting. And we were able to discuss 10 out of 34 messages, so we still have 24 left. In three days, in my opinion, we have progressed at quite a decent pace. On average, we did 13 points a day. We still have nine negotiating days ahead of us at this meeting, where at least one or part of the day will be reserved for the third reading of the draft State Budget Act, firmly on 9 December on Wednesday. I come up with a relatively minimalist proposal for a solid inclusion of a total of eight points, which is a pace of one point a day if I miss the point where the budget is. According to our website, I mean ours as the Chamber of Deputies, so far the bill with the highest number of the House press has a number 660 and has been filed yesterday. I have selected eight points, which I will briefly present, and from the above overview it is logical that I have selected the bills in the first reading, because we have the most left. We are amassing here and we have a debate and a vote on almost 90 bills in the first reading. I chose logically parliamentary bills. There are eight in total, one of which is the proposal of opposition Members, only of opposition. One is the proposal of only government Members, and six are the ones under which both government and opposition Members are signed. Sometimes they're both opposition and government. Depends on who comes first. But six bills cannot be attributed to the opposition or to the government. All laws connect it, or almost all...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u5	Colleagues, colleagues, I am asking you to remain calm so that I can take note of Mr Stanjura's proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u6	Of the eight proposed laws, which I will shortly introduce, seven were filed in 2014. And the eighth, the only one that was filed in 2015, was filed in February, so this is my mom's nine months. This shows that I did not prefer any of the bills, but we should just deal with the proposals. I made the choice so that it would be balanced, the opposition and the coalition. Just because I design them doesn't mean that I will personally support them. For some bills, I am also prepared to vote for rejection at first reading. But we can't just discuss the laws that I personally want to support. We should discuss all of them. And now, briefly, I will introduce you to eight drafts of the law. Item 75, it is the only proposal of only opposition Members. I'd like to mention that I didn't advise the petitioner about this. So if one of the petitioners is surprised, I apologize. It is a proposal by Members of Miroslav Kalousek, František Laudát and others to issue a law on jurisdiction...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u7	Colleagues, colleagues, I really ask for peace in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u8	To issue a law on the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic in the management of companies controlled by the State, House printing 167. Compare it to 660. This bill was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 9 April 2014, which is 19 months. The initial reading has already started at the 25th meeting and was suspended on 11 February 2015, meaning more than nine months ago. I will just recall from the explanatory memorandum that the competence of individual central government bodies in the management of a business company in which the State is also to participate is governed by various laws. In general, in the law of competence and, in particular, in individual special laws. No legal regulation is specifically provided for by the Ministry responsible for this area. The Government's resolution of 17 March 2014 shows that the current government of the Czech Republic also considers this to be problematic. The resolution has number 177 and this resolution has been established by the Government Committee on Personnel Nominations, setting up a three-member government committee, which will have the competence to assess the personnel nominations of persons to be represented by the State in the supervisory boards of a company with the ownership of a state, state enterprise or national enterprise, which we have only one. [[9.10 hours]] There is a clear attempt to prevent the direct responsibility of a particular ministry. Legally, the appellants prefer the way of adopting a short separate law before the theoretical possibility of supplementing either the municipal competence law. This is a brief adjustment, since a specific measure can then be adopted at the level of the Government resolution without adopting legal or regulatory standards. That was point one. The second point I propose is item 80 of our approved program. It is a proposal from both government and opposition Members, a proposal from Members of Stanislav Polčák, who is almost a year and a half in the European Parliament, Jan Chvojka, Pavel Blažek and Jan Farský to issue a law amending Act No. 182/1993 Coll., on the Constitutional Court, as amended. House printing's low number 232. This bill was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 13 June 2014. The purpose of this bill is to create a legal framework for the use of both the professional and moral potential of former judges of the Constitutional Court in the establishment of the constitutional system of the Czech Republic. At the same time, it is intended to ensure their decent status after the end of the term of office of the Constitutional Judge. The Institute of the Emeritus Judge of the Constitutional Court is an equivalent institute of the Emeritus Professor in the field of Czech universities, respectively. emeritus scientist of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. The proposal envisages an advisory function for the emeritus judges of the Constitutional Court and the College of Emeritus Judges of the Constitutional Court, as well as the professional and/or professional activities of the Constitutional Court. scientific. Of course, this creates a legislative space for the future for the use of their professional and moral qualities guaranteeing independent decision-making in areas affecting human dignity or the ethics of justice in a broader sense. Such questions may include the responsibilities of judges and prosecutors, the self-government of courts, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u9	I'd ask the left side of the hall to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ten, respectively. Twenty years in the independent position of the judges of the Constitutional Court, in a position in which these judges participated in the cultivation of democratic constitutionality in our country, it is necessary to continue using these figures in favour of the Czech Republic. Point number 3, which I propose to place firmly, is the point of our approved program, which has number 85. It is a proposal of government and opposition Members and it is a proposal of members of František Adámek, Petr Adam, Stanislav Berkovec, Pavel Blažek, Marek Černoch and Zdeněk Ondráček to issue a law amending Act No.40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended. The House's press has a relatively low number of 323 again. This bill was delivered to Members more than a year ago, 17 September 2014. In this bill, an extension of the list of offences included in the provisions of Section 33 is proposed...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u11	Colleagues, colleagues, I really don't know how else to show that there is a need to lower the level of noise in the room. My colleague Stanjura feels disturbed in his speech, and I think I'm going to have to interrupt the meeting if the noise level doesn't decrease.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u12	I very much hope that this will not be necessary, Mr President, that at least about silence could occur here. This is an extension of the list of offences included in Section 33 of the Criminal Code for the disappearance of criminal liability by effective regret, the offences of subsidy fraud § 212 and the damage to the financial interests of the European Union § 260. Given that this is the only amendment point, the petitioners hereby refer to who you want to know the details of the justification given in the general part of the explanatory memorandum. Point number 4, which I propose to place firmly, is the item approved by programme number 88. Once again, it is a proposal by both government and opposition MEPs. It is a proposal by MEPs Jitka Chalánková, Marek Benda, Nina Nováková, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Vít Kaňkovskýý and Martin Komárek to issue a law amending Act No. 373/2001 Coll., on specific health services, and some other laws, the House press has the number 371, and was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 12 December 2014. This bill is based on the following principles. Limiting the maximum number of human embryos that can be formed from embryonic cells of an anonymous donor, prohibition of assisted reproduction in relation to germ cell agents and introduction of separate and limited access to anonymous donor data records. Item 5 is only a proposal from government Members, a proposal from Members. It is a proposal by Members of Antonín Sed, Robin Böhnisch, Roman Sklenák, Bohuslav Chalupa, Dana Váhalová and others to issue a law on compensation for loss of employment for political reasons between 1948 and 1989 to former professional soldiers and employees of the Ministry of Defence and on the amendment of certain laws, House press No. 378. This bill was delivered to the Chamber of Deputies on 19 December 2014. The proposed legislation, as the appellants write in their explanatory report, is intended to establish claims for financial compensation for former soldiers and defence department staff, through which, to a certain extent, injustices committed during the totalitarian regime will be atoned in the field of employment. The sixth point I propose is item 93 of our approved program. It is once again a joint proposal by both government and opposition Members. It is a proposal by Members Vladislav Vilímec, Jana Černochová, Radek Vondráček, Jiří Junek and Jana Hnyková to issue a law amending Act No. 212/2009 Coll., which alleviates property injustices for real estate to citizens of the Czech Republic...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u13	I'd like to ask colleagues in front of the rhetorical site not to disturb the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u14	- reducing property injustices to citizens of the Czech Republic for property they have left in the territory of the Podkarpatské Rusi in connection with its contractual assignment to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, as amended by Act No. 121/2012 Coll., House Press 403. This bill is the only bill this year. It was delivered to the Chamber of Deputies on 17 February 2015. I would quote from the explanatory memorandum: The proposal to compensate the descendants of those who left property in the territory of the Podkarpatské Rusi would be appropriate to return, or at least compensate in the form of an adopted bill. The seventh point I propose is item 95 of our approved agenda. It is once again a proposal of opposition and government Members. It is a proposal by Members Zdeněk Ondráček, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Markéta Wernerová, Kristýna Zelienková and others to issue a law amending Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executions and enforcement activities, execution order, as amended. The House press has number 238 and the Chamber of Deputies was submitted on 24 June 2014. A enforcement order to suspend a compulsory driving licence may only be issued by an executioner if, in the execution, the maintenance fee for a minor or an adult child under 26 years of age, which is constantly being prepared by a study of his future profession, is enforced. This is the proposed change, because today it is only up to the option of 18 years, but those who do not pay their maintenance, and if these children are studying, they are obliged to take care of them until 26 years, so there remain 8 years, when we are not actually able to use this coercive means of withdrawing a driving licence, slang to say, a driving licence, to force the debtor to pay the maintenance on his children. [[9.20 hours]] And the last, eighth point, which I propose to place firmly, is paragraph 98 of the approved agenda for the meeting, which is once again a proposal by both government and opposition Members. It is a proposal from Members - and I have also made one proposal here, which I have signed, you understand, since I have so widely named almost all the Members of the Chamber of Deputies on the previous seven points. It is a proposal by Members of Anna Putnová, Karel Schwarzenberg, Vlasta Bohdalová, Helena Langšádlová, František Vácha, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Jana Fischerová, Bohuslav Svoboda, Zbyněk Stanjura, Věra Kovářová, Jan Zahradník, Markéta Wernerová and Jaroslav Lobkowicz to issue a law amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, school law, as amended, and Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, the law on pedagogical workers, as amended, House press No. 278. Unfortunately, this bill is too long on ice in the Chamber of Deputies. We presented it on 31 July last year, i.e. 2014. This bill concerns Czech schools without borders, whose main goal is to educate the Czech-speaking young generation, which grows abroad, so that this generation is able to read and write not only Czech in adulthood, but also maintain awareness of its roots and sense of belonging to the Czech nation and the Czech Republic. Finally, a brief summary. As I said before, seven of these bills were already submitted in 2014. I've been trying to make a choice so that all the MPs can be found in the bill. I think every club has at least one, maybe more drafts of the petitioner's laws. And as I was saying, we have nine negotiating days, it's eight points, I'm not suggesting anything to include the day of the state budget. And because we want a possible majority to choose a term that suits us not to be blamed for suggesting something that you've already thought about something else, I'm going to make these specific changes to the classification, and that's an option. So I propose to firmly include paragraph 75, the proposal of Members Miroslav Kalousek, František Laudát and others to issue a law on the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic in the management of companies controlled by the state, House press 167, as follows: Today as the first point. Alternatively, that means if it is not approved, on Tuesday, December 8th, the first point. Alternatively, on Thursday, 10 December following written interpelations as the first point. Alternatively, on Friday, December 11th, the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u15	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, I just wanted to ask if I should register the alternatives?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u16	No, no, Mr President, I will give you this in writing, of course, so that you have it as a basis for the vote. I'm sure you do. If a majority of Members would prefer to discuss this law in the third week of the House of Deputies rather than in the second week, then there are other alternatives to discuss it on Tuesday, December 15, as the first item, or on Wednesday, December 16, as the first item, or on Thursday, December 17, following the written intercessions as the first item, or, that is the last option, on Friday, December 18, as the first item. Two. I propose firmly to include item number 80, the proposal of Members of Stanislav Polčák, Jan Chvojka, Pavel Blažek and Jan Farský, I do not need to read the exact name of the law anymore, just refer to House press number 232, as follows: Today as the second point. In the event that this was not approved, the second point would be Tuesday, 8 December. Alternatively, in the event of non-approval of this proposal on Thursday, 10 December following written consultations as a second point. Alternatively, on Friday, 11 December as the second point, or Tuesday, 15 December as the second point, or alternatively on Wednesday, 16 December as the second point, or Thursday, the last Thursday when we will act, after written interventions as the second point, or on Friday, 18 December as the second point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u17	Now I ask the right side of the hall to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u18	I'll see where the noise comes from. That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Three. I propose to firmly include paragraph 85, the proposal of Members of František Adámek, Petr Adam, Stanislav Berkovec, Pavel Blažek, Marek Černoch and Zdeněk Ondráček, House press 323, as follows: Today as the third point. Alternatively, on Tuesday, December 8, as the third point, possibly on Thursday, December 10, following written interpelations as the third point, alternatively on Friday, December 11th... [[He's shutting down because of the noise in the O.R.]] Thank you. The third point, alternatively on Tuesday 15 December as the third point, alternatively on Wednesday 16 December as the third point or on Thursday 17 December following written interventions as the third point, or on Friday 18 December as the third point. Four. I propose to firmly include paragraph 88, the proposal by Members Jitka Chalánková, Marek Benda, Nina Nováková, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Vít Kaňkovskýý and Martin Komárek, the House press number 371, as follows: Firmly today as the fourth point. Alternatively, on Tuesday, 8 December, as a fourth point, or Thursday, 10 December, following written interpelations as a fourth point or on Friday, 11 December, as a fourth point. Alternatively, we could discuss this law in the last week of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, on Tuesday, December 15, as the fourth point, or on Wednesday, December 16, as the fourth point, or on Thursday, December 17, following written intercessions as the fourth point. And the last alternative you can choose, and I believe that one of them will be chosen together, is Friday, December 18th, as the fourth point. Five. I propose to firmly include paragraph 89, Mr Antonín Sed proposal, Mr Robin Böhnisch, Mr Roman Sklenák, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, Mr Dana Váhalová and others, the House's press number 378, as follows: Today as the fifth point. Alternatively, on Tuesday, 8 December, as the fifth point, or on Thursday, 10 December, following written interpelations as the fifth point, or on Friday, 5 December, as the fifth point. Or again in the last week of the Chamber of Deputies meeting... [[Mr Šánová approaches the table of ministers and talks with Minister Babiš near the speaker.]] So you led me out of the concept that I'd like to start reading from the beginning. But I won't. But really, it's not pleasant. I won't pay you back, but it's not pleasant. Alternatively, on Tuesday 15 December as the fifth point, or on Wednesday 16 December as the fifth point, or on Thursday 17 December following written interventions as the fifth point. The last possibility of this bill from the workshop in particular the Czech Social Democratic Party, I would like to stress this, on Friday 18 December as the fifth point. Six. I propose to firmly include item 93 of the approved programme, draft by Members Vladislav Vilímec, Jana Černochová, Radek Vondráček, Jiří Junek and Jana Hnyková, House print number 403. It's about the Podkarpathian Russians. I mean, at point five and six, it's a bill in case we really have to hurry. It's a reparation of property injustices. We will not stop time, and many of the families involved, many of the people involved, are of a high age. I propose to include this point as the sixth point today, alternatively on Tuesday, 8 December, as the sixth point, or on Thursday, 10 December, following written interventions as the sixth point, or in the second week of the Chamber of Deputies meeting on Friday, 11 December, as the sixth point. Or on Tuesday, December 15, as the sixth point, possibly on Wednesday, December 16, as the sixth point, alternatively on Thursday, December 17, following written interpelations as the sixth point. And the last possibility of an important draft law on compensation of property injustices from Podkarpatská Rusi on Friday 18 December as the sixth point. Seven. I propose to firmly include paragraph 95, the proposal by Members Zdeněk Ondráček, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Markéta Wernerová, Kristýna Zelienková and others, House print number 238, firmly, today as the seventh point, or on Tuesday 8 December as the seventh point, or on Thursday 10 December after written interventions as the seventh point, alternatively on Friday 11 December as the seventh point. Or alternative Tuesday 15 December 7. point, Wednesday 16 December seventh point, Thursday 17 December after written interpelations seventh point or on Friday 18 December as the seventh point. [[9.30 hours]] I just want to remind you that the law has been here for more than a year, and if we want to help the singles in particular, it would be good for us to start discussing it, because according to the statistics available, the withdrawal of driving licences has increased the willingness to pay those who have not fulfilled their legal obligations. For the eighth time, I suggest we place point 95 firmly... [[He's looking in the materials.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, that's the word (?), so that the proposal of paragraph 8 is correct... [[An unintelligible call from the diaper.]] It's the ones who never get out that shout the most. I really like that. [[Laughs and the acceptance of some Members in the Chamber.]] Paragraph 98, the proposal of Members of Anna Putnová, Karel Schwarzenberg, Vlasta Bohdalová, Helena Langšádlová, František Vácha, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Jana Fischerová, Bohuslav Svoboda, Zbyněk Stanjura, Věra Kovářová, Jan Zahradník, Markéta Wernerová and Jaroslav Lobkowicz - these are the Czech schools abroad or without borders, and I propose that you include this as a firm eighth point today, possibly. Alternatively, on Tuesday 8 December as the eighth point, or on Thursday 10 December following written interventions as the eighth point, alternatively on Friday 11 December as the eighth point. Alternatively, and these are the last four proposals, in the last week of the Chamber of Deputies this year on Tuesday, December 15, as the eighth point, or later. on Wednesday, 16 December as the eighth point, alternatively on Thursday, 17 December following written interpelations as the eighth point and possibly. On Friday, December 18th, as the eighth point. I mean, if the petitioners are serious about their bill, they have eight different terms to choose from. If one of these points doesn't pass, of course, it automatically shifts. The vote will show whether those people, colleagues, are interested in discussing a bill they have signed themselves, or do not care, they have fulfilled their obligation - we have filed a bill, and that is what we have done. I don't think we're done. I repeat, I will not be in favour of some of the bills. I will also support rejection at first reading. But by being here for a year and a half, a year and a quarter, a year and five months and the youngest one for just nine months, I believe that together in those votes, we will find a deadline when we can discuss these points. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u19	Thank you, too. President Fiala will now take the floor with priority, and President Kalousek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am following up on the proposals of the President of our Zbyněk Stanjura, and I am also coming up with a proposal to adjust the programme. In particular, the proposal for a fixed inclusion of point No. 115, which is a parliamentary proposal under which I am also signed with colleagues Zbyněk Stanjura, Ivan Adamec, Adolf Beznoska and others, on the issue of a law repealing Act No. 16/1993 Coll., on Road Tax, as amended, House Press 557. Our bill has been here since July. You say, well, he could be lying here for a while, and nothing would happen. Of course, we're used to this kind of procedure. However, our proposal has taken an extraordinary turn in recent days, and it would therefore be good for the Chamber of Deputies to deal with this proposal for the abolition of road taxes as soon as possible. Our July proposal is the current one. because information has come out in the past days that the government has surprisingly - even though we are no longer very surprised - considered the introduction of road tax for all passenger cars, not only as it is now for entrepreneurs, but that everyone in some form would simply pay road tax. As an example, I can mention the National Clean Mobility Action Plan, which was discussed by the government on a proposal from the Ministry of Industry and Trade recently, i.e. on 20 November. And it is in this National Clean Mobility Action Plan that this measure is being considered and there is proposed an analysis that is somehow intended to consider or complete the proposal for a road road tax. Here I would quote directly from this document approved by the Government on 20 November: "The analysis will propose the structure of the road tax taking into account externalities from transport to the environment and will also include an assessment of the possibilities of introduction. other vehicle charging measures.'; So many quotes from the National Action Plan for Clean Mobility. And the justification that we can find in this national action plan is the following - I quote: "This is a common economic tool that is used in a number of countries as an element that helps to reduce systemic exhalation in operated vehicles. Passenger vehicles are mainly charged in the EU. The taxation of vehicles according to CO2 emissions is used in more than 15 countries of the European Union.' So many quotes from the National Action Plan on Clean Mobility approved by the government. Surely you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that such information is disturbing, and all the more so is the current proposal, not only that the road tax should not spread, but that it should be completely abolished. I assume, of course, that after I say this, a number of ministers will come forward and say that this is just an option, that it is only being considered, that a number of other analyses and studies need to be carried out and that it may eventually be different. But I believe that just that the government is considering such a thing should draw the attention of the Chamber of Deputies and that we should look into it. Because we have signals here that when a similar government is considering that it can eventually become a reality very quickly. I remind you that the government has increased the charges for the operation of older vehicles, and this may be another attempt to go in a similar spirit and continue to make people's lives miserable. And I note that this will apply more strongly and more particularly to older cars, which, of course, use people with lower incomes, whose protection is so often wedged by some government parties. Since the proposal is, as I have justified, so extremely topical, it affects so many citizens, and considering the introduction of a road tax on land can have really serious consequences, so we feel that we need to deal with our proposal within the Chamber of Deputies as soon as possible. I think that if we were able to abolish the road tax as we propose, the government would have a strong incentive not to engage in more important matters and to consider such nonsensical measures that are against active and hardworking people, such as the introduction of an area road tax. So in order to deal with this as soon as possible, I propose a firm inclusion of this point - I will remind you once again that this is point No. 115, which is the proposal of Members Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Ivan Adamec, Adolf Beznoska and others for the issue of the Act repealing Act No. 16/1993 Coll., on Road Tax, as amended, House Press 557 - for today, Friday 27 November, and I propose to include this as the first point. Of course, I can imagine that not everyone will be prepared for something like this, so I propose an alternative and, alternatively, I recommend and propose a firm inclusion of this point on Friday 11. 12. also as the first point. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the discussion of our July proposal for the abolition of road taxes on the basis of my reasoning and on the basis of an explanation of how extremely timely this point is given the government's intentions that you will support this proposal on the basis of all of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u21	Yes, thank you. Now President Kalousek has the floor, and after him will be President Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u22	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the TOP 09 MEP, to propose, as the first item of today's negotiations, an unnegotiated item, namely the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes, House press 123. Allow me to make a brief statement. I had a very good feeling yesterday about how we were doing at hand, we agreed to extend the date until 21:00. We approved individual very important international treaties both on the running belt and on the last point. Just what the wormman didn't want, at that moment there was a situation that, for certain relevant reasons, one MP had to take a break and the break lasted until 21:00. I think it is extremely important not to prolong the situation where we will ratify this already signed treaty and be able to present it to the President because it is a matter of extraordinary importance and extremely important. I understand the feelings of some of you who have a problem with any international legal act with a country that they did not agree to. I have an understanding. I am a member of the government, I was a member of the government that recognised Kosovo, yet, I think it is not a secret, I voted against the recognition of Kosovo in the government, because I did not think it was fair to the country with which we have long-term friendships, it is Serbia, and I did not consider it fair to the European traditions, because this place is spilled with the blood of Christian knights who have been defending this territory against the crescent for centuries and have been bleeding for the cross, and then we simply gave it to the crescent by one decision. I've really had that, and I have a problem in my own way today. But let's be pragmatic, please. Appreciation has taken place, the state is sovereign. And let me ask you a rhetorical question: what interest is it in us to have an international treaty to avoid double taxation? It is, of course, in the interests of Czech investors, it is in the interests of Czech entrepreneurs. And it's not a big deal to even think about the security issue. Trade does not know the boundaries and, of course, that the Czech businessman, whether an investor or a trader, or someone who wants to open a branch or establishment in Kosovo, because it will benefit him, and if it benefits the Czech businessman, it will also benefit the Czech Republic, it needs to be assured that it will not be taxed more than its business plan counts and that it counts its cash flow under legislation. At the moment when he does not have the certainty and rightly fears that he will be taxed both in the Czech Republic and in Kosovo, without two states sharing his one contribution, but taxing him twice, the risk is often so disproportionate that he will not take the risk, thus allowing the market to someone else from another country to harm the Czech Republic. The same in the case of an investment considered either by an investor from Kosovo in the Czech Republic for the benefit of the Czech Republic, or by a Czech entrepreneur such an investment can be made again in Kosovo for the benefit of the Czech Republic. In the event that the international agreement against double taxation is not guaranteed, that means that both financial administrations will behave according to known and proven OECD models, the risk of such an investment usually exceeds the viability of the business risk that such an investor is willing to bear, and logically this investment business opportunity will then be realized by someone else in the country that has such a contract and whose entrepreneur does not have to worry about double taxation. Please don't lose sight of the security issue. Without touching a sovereign state, we know that from Kosovo, in particular, Albanian nationality often moves beyond the borders of the law in networks of organised crime and that they operate on the territory of the Czech Republic. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Until this agreement has been approved, ratified and signed by the President, it will not enter into force and until then the Czech Financial Administration will not be able to ask Kosovo's financial administration about data relating to the tax obligations of Kosovo's tax resident, who is in the territory of the Czech Republic. And such data are very often extremely useful in the fight against international terrorism and in the fight against organised crime. We do not yet have the right to these data as the Czech Republic and we will not have them until this agreement is approved. That is why I dare to call for this to be the first point of today's negotiations without delay. I'd like you to realize who this is all about. It concerns all residents. The resident, please nicely, is any person who is subject under the legislation of that State for reasons of residence, permanent residence, place of management or any other similar criteria, and also includes that State and any lower administrative department or local authority of that State. Attention, of course! Such an expression does not include any person who is subject to taxation in that State solely on account of income from resources in that State. And this isn't gonna apply until we approve. As you will admit, we can hardly risk it. I'd like us to realize that this concerns all permanent operations. In other words, a permanent establishment can be a place of business management, it can be a plant, it can be an office, it can be a factory, it can be a workshop, it can be a mine, but also a permanent establishment can be a construction site or a construction, assembly or installation project, or even a permanent establishment we can understand supervision with it, but only if such a site, project or supervision lasts for more than 12 months, there, of course, time plays an important role there. [[9.50 hours]] However, until this contract is approved, you are at risk of double taxation even if you decide to provide services, including consultancy or management companies, of that one Contracting State or through employees or other employees hired by the undertaking for that purpose, but only if the activities of such a character continue to be of the same 12-month period for the other Contracting State. However, even in this case, it is sufficient only for a consultancy service which you can carry out on the territory of Kosovo, and if this contract is not approved, you are at risk of double taxation, as it is extremely important to realise that if a person other than an independent representative acts in a contracting State on behalf of an undertaking and is normally authorised to conclude contracts on behalf of an undertaking, that undertaking shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that State in respect of all the activities that that person carries out for an undertaking, provided that the activities of that person are not limited to the activities referred to in paragraph 1. Four I'll introduce you to immediately. It is clear that the profits of an undertaking of one contracting State are subject to taxation in that State only if the undertaking does not carry out its activities in the other contracting State through a permanent establishment. [[Permanent heavy noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize if my reasoning was more extensive. Maybe some of you have stopped me from kicking so much for the Treasury Secretary. Please, let us also have some consideration for his time. Remember, he was waiting here until eight o'clock yesterday, looking forward to presenting you with a double-tax contract. And when he had already lifted up to explain the need for this treaty to be approved in a much more extensive way than I did today, the axe of the Rules of Procedure fell at that time, and our negotiations were closed. I believe that it would be extremely considerate of the Minister of Finance to return this to him today and to allow him to do so, which, I stress, was not the only one who was discussed yesterday in order to allow him to present this treaty today. I beg you to support this proposal, and I beg you, when the Minister presents it so that we may be kind to him and approve the treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u23	Thank you to Mr Kalousek and please to the microphone of another registered with priority rights, and this is Mr Černoch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u24	Thank you. Beautiful morning, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, Madam Vice-President. It has been more than six months since the Senate's draft amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, which introduces the so-called territoriality of executors, has arrived in the Chamber of Deputies. This is the House Press 499. This government is already halfway through its mandate, and all the government parties that are now in the coalition promised before the elections to turn to executions. But there haven't been any major changes so far. Yes, we approved a ban on child toys, basic household equipment, but it was a parliamentary proposal that proved it, not government. The only party that has fulfilled its promise to establish the territoriality of executors is the Dawn - the National Coalition. However, you have proposed our bill to work with the fact that you will prepare your own and better proposal. But it hasn't happened yet. That's why we volunteered and we're applying to a Senate proposal based on the same principles as ours. No government proposal is being presented. We all know very well what it means that a hypothetical government bill means that if it does not begin to negotiate as soon as possible, it will not be approved. Such a big amendment to the law is always going through a thorough discussion here in the House, and it is clear that if the government does not submit its proposal before a few months before the end of the parliamentary term, this proposal will fall under the table. So if we're gonna pass a law that lights up on the executor mob, it's high time. I therefore propose that the House press 499, which deals with this issue. And I would point out that the government has given a favourable opinion on this bill. There is therefore nothing to prevent this proposal from being discussed. The territoriality of the executors brings execution into line with the Constitution. In the exercise of state authority, it is customary for the authorities or persons exercising that power to be determined by the rules on local jurisdiction. Such an arrangement is based on Article 38 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. No one shall be taken away from his lawful judge. The jurisdiction of both the court and the judge shall be governed by the law. This rule is respected not only in the proceedings of the founding but also in the proceedings of the executing, when Law No. 99/1963 Coll., the Civil Procedure Code, determines which court is locally competent in a specific execution case. This is also about maintaining equality of parties. Article 96 (1) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic states: All parties to proceedings shall have the same rights in court. In the case where the beneficiary is allowed to choose an executor without any restriction, there is an unequal position of the participants. It is also a very important anti-corruption system on the impartiality and independence of judicial executors, the decision of the executor is a decision of the court. There can be no language in the current competitive system at all, because the free competition between executives has caused the entire majority of executors to subjugate the source of the livelihood, that is to say, lawyers, owners of debt portfolios and all kinds of misfits with tens of thousands of oddly incurred claims. The claim that the introduction of territoriality will reduce enforcement and prolong enforcement proceedings has no rational basis and is not supported by anything. In the event of the introduction of territoriality, better local knowledge at the place of execution would significantly improve the chances of recovery. The system supports the system: more execution is equal to higher profit. Such practice leads to the uncontrolled emergence of new and new debts, or debt traps. The amendment removes the possibility of selecting an executor and the executioner is bound to his district. Thus, by introducing territoriality, loan sharks will not be able to push executors into drastic enforcement methods. The inclusion of territoriality is also subject to the coalition contract of the current government. I therefore ask you to discuss at first reading this draft law on the territoriality of executors before the end of this year, so that we can catch up on the legislative process, and I therefore propose that we include the law hearing on Friday, December 11, as the fourth point for the three already firmly classified reports before the other fixed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u25	Yes, thank you. Mrs Černochová will now appear. I am merely pointing out to Members who do not have the right of priority that the time to present a proposal for a change to the programme is five minutes. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u26	Mr President, I have priority rights. Mr Stanjura is not here, who told me that I have priority rights until he arrives. But I'd like to ask you a favor. We really are all living in the reality of what's happening around us. I think it bothers us all. And I do not know to what extent you have been able to record a thing that is relatively fresh, which took place sometime last week and which concerns tightening up the conditions for controlling the acquisition and possession of weapons and ammunition, which this Regulation or this Directive results from a proposal which the European Commission, of course, has to become part of a legislative process within the European Union. [[10.00 hours]] I took the liberty of asking you to include this point in today's meeting, because yesterday, when we were discussing the law on public procurement, there were repeatedly words from the Minister, and from some other speakers: so, and again, the European Commission is ordering us to do something and we have nothing else...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u27	Colleagues and colleagues, please remain calm in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u28	We have no choice but to proceed with the implementation. I do not want to get into a situation, and hopefully none of you with me, that sometime in March, perhaps in April our Chamber of Deputies will get into this situation and that we will have to deal with this here and it will be under sanctions. That is why I would ask you, and my intention really is perhaps rational for all of you, so that we accept as Parliament's Chamber of Deputies after we include that item on the agenda, a resolution in which the legislature clearly declares that we are rejecting this arms restriction and that, in fact, those people from the Ministry of Industry and Trade and from the Ministry of the Interior who will go to those meetings in Brussels before the European Commission is discussed, they will have a clear mandate from us as the legislature. If we allow the adoption of a proposal for a directive by the European Commission restricting the sale and possession of arms in the European Union, it is for me an absolute restriction on the freedoms and rights of citizens throughout the European Union, not just the Czech Republic. It creates a dangerous precedent. The creation of nothing-speaking or all-embracing, i.e. vague legislative measures for the sale and possession of weapons is another example of the impotence of Brusel to respond adequately to the security threats and risks encountered. I found it completely absurd that Brussels came up with something like this after a series of terrorist attacks in Paris, Belgium and other countries. It is not enough to raise your eyebrows over the fact that the European Commission is increasing the security of the citizens of the European Union and is fighting terrorism in a way that is unprecedented, in a way that wants to disarm the citizens of the European Union. As far as I know, and please, possibly get me out of here with priority rights, we don't know many cases where terrorists legally hold and use guns, do we? There is a new era of European integration, an era where the European Commission is not struggling with problems and facing challenges, but is arguing with Member States and proposing completely new senseless solutions. This is how they war with a stamp in their hand against their citizens and their rights. The Commission's proposal confirms that similar measures are throwing us back into a time of non-freedom. I hope that if the proposal is to be actually submitted to the European Parliament and the European Council, there will be enough reason to categorically reject the Commission's proposal. In this context, I would like to mention that the faction in which the Civil Democratic Party is gathered clearly rejected the proposal for this directive. And I would like to ask colleagues who sit in the Chamber of Deputies and also have Members in the European Parliament to appeal to them to do so in their factions. To learn what is actually forbidden, let me read you an open letter from the LEX association, an association for the protection of the rights of arms holders, proponents of the right to arms possession throughout Europe: Dear colleagues, since I am writing to you from the Czech Republic, let me introduce you to our country first. In our Republic, the possession and carrying of weapons is a real right guaranteed by law to every adult, self-righteous and blameless person. The gun card is a claim. Anyone who fulfills the terms of the law is entitled to it. Permissions for category B weapons are also claimed, as well as permission to carry a weapon. We have short weapons that we use to shoot sports and carry them for self-defense. We have self-loading rifles derived from military weapons that we use in various sports competitions and train with them in case our beloved country needs its citizens to be ready to defend it. The tradition of our hunting goes back more than a thousand years and our sports shooters rarely return from the Olympic Games without a medal. Women without exception. According to the Institute for Economics and Peace, we are also the tenth safest country in the world. Violent crime is low in our country and crime with a firearm is negligible. Together with Switzerland, whose tradition of freedom, democracy and independence we admire very much, our Republic is an example that there is nothing more to make a country armed, peaceful and free than the strong commitment of its people to take those values away from anyone. We're sure you know the current situation, they're writing from the arms rights protection association. In response to the terrorist attacks in Paris committed by prohibited automatic weapons and definitely illegal explosives, the European Commission wants to pretend to protect the citizens of European states by restricting their legal possession of weapons. The proposed measures include - and here I ask that all those who already possess a weapon of any type should be encouraged - so these restrictions are: First, a ban on self-loading rifles that resemble automatic weapons. Banning weapons that have not been used at all in Paris in terrorist attacks, but are important for the national defense of many states. Second, automatic weapons and self-loading weapons are to be prohibited even after impairment. All collections would be outlawed with the exception of museums, which will have to devalue their exhibits, thereby irreversibly damaging their historical and cultural value. You know, I'm the mayor of Prague 2, where we have Cyril a Metoděj' crypt. We know what happened on Resslova Street, what happened there. Do we really want the Military Historical Institute to destroy weapons from the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich? Third, all other damaged weapons, along with gas, alarm weapons, paintball and airsoft replicas, and so on, will be moved to category C - weapons to report. Which means weapons license in the Czech Republic. So you guys who don't have an armory and want to play paintball with a bunch of friends somewhere, or like history, and you're in some frat where you're trying to show off some fighting battles, so you can't even use replicas of guns. If you want to use them, you'll have to get a gun license. That's great, isn't it? Fourthly, the Commission assumes that its order to confiscate and destroy all new prohibited weapons will be implemented by the Member States. At the same time, however, it does not foresee any impact on the Union budget, which implies that either the costs of confiscation will be borne by the Member States or will be expropriated without compensation. Remember that the current draconian weapons restrictions in England began in 1987 just like this - by banning self-loading rifles from military appearance, because they are not sports weapons, they are not hunting weapons, no one really needs them. [[10.10 hours]] I believe that from this example and from many others it is clear that those politically incorrect black illegal rifles actually form a buffer zone between the ban and your hunting rifle or sports rifle and gun. None of the above restrictions here, as I have read and commented to you, would prevent the massacres in Paris. But there is indeed one hole in the European directive on the acquisition and possession of firearms that has allowed terrorists to acquire weapons that are long since banned for civilian possession. The European Commission claims that the weapons used in Paris' massacres were not bought legally as automatic and certainly not self-loading, nor were they smuggled from outside. According to the Commission, they were bought as impaired and were easily repaired by terrorists due to insufficient rules on depreciation. This is, however, contrary to the European directive. It clearly states that the damaged weapon must be irreversibly modified into a dysfunctional state. The procedures for these adjustments should have been laid down by the Member States, and in order to avoid precisely this situation where a State decides that to close two pins through the barrel is completely sufficient, which clearly is not enough, the directive ordered common guidelines on standards and depreciation techniques to ensure that damaged weapons are irreversibly incapable of being fired. And the European Commission was responsible for issuing these guidelines and supervising their compliance. Yes, you read, or you listen to me, right, see for yourself. Directive 2008/51/EC, Article 13/1 states: The Commission shall issue, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13a (2), the following provisions: In order to ensure that damaged weapons are irreversibly incapable of shooting, common guidelines on standards and techniques of impairment. The second paragraph states: Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 28 July 2010. It's the end of 2015. They shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those provisions. This means that the Commission has known about this problem for at least five years, has done nothing. It was only last week that she quickly issued these instructions, sewed with a hot needle, that she would prevent further massacres in the hope that people would overlook the fact that even the Paris massacres could have been prevented if the Commission had done something for the past five years. Something about what's right there, something to point out. Unfortunately, the situation with the negotiation and with the intention to enforce it at all costs, the information is serious, the Commission is committed to implementing its plans at all costs in the shortest possible time. That is why I ask you once again to appeal to your fellow MEPs and to your colleagues in the factions in which you are gathered, I see the Minister of Agriculture here, so of course I am immediately thinking of hunting, I see the Minister of Defence here, including. A lot of those instructors who hold weapons, as I described them to you, and they'll have to stop holding them if the directive applies, so they work as instructors either for active backups or even for the professional army that hires them, so it also brings complications of this type. Indeed, in the Czech Republic, we have very strict conditions for obtaining an arms license, but, and that is correct, that the rights balance obligations, the owners of the arms licenses have great opportunities to buy and what they do with it. Despite these relatively large possibilities and despite the fact that the standard of living is not higher than in the original 15th European Commission, I repeat, the crimes of arms are absolutely minimal, especially when crimes with a legal weapon, with a legal weapon of category A, B, C. These are at the level of a completely miniature statistical error. It is clear from this - weapons in the Czech Republic and legislation, whether it be the arms law 111/2002 plus other implementations, do not pose any security risk. The ban on self-loading weapons is pure nonsense, because today from already prohibited weapons they are the most guarded weapons-- the most guarded. Each weapon must have a special permit issued by the Police of the Czech Republic. Each weapon must be registered and each weapon checked regularly by the police during the extension of the armory. We have a central register, we have already approved the implementation of a ban on the sale of weapons and ammunition via the Internet, the availability of weapons components is regulated. There are many measures that the Czech Republic, with the tradition that is here in history, has proposed and implemented already a number of measures. I would probably just use the fact that there is a Defence Minister here, who happens to be from one side, such as Commissioner Jourová, to explain to her - I understand that not every woman enjoys weapons as much as I do or Mrs Bebarová-Rujbrová, but perhaps a little enlightenment. Maybe if someone from the Department of Defense did some Jourová of briefing on what kind of weapons they are, not to write to people who really understand it, not to write nonsense to them. I'm going to read you a reaction to her letter, which was sent to her, it's a little awkward that at least Mrs Jourová is unable to consult someone who would have a little better study of these things, so it is the representatives of LEX that write to her: Dear Commissioner, we have just read your comments on the directive on arms regulation in the EU. With all due respect to you and your work, I must say that the professional blunder that Senator František Bublan has recently performed in his performance, we have seen this in an interview, was not unique, that it is probably a general phenomenon, and I am, politely speaking, very saddened by the fact that people who have or will have the right to make decisions have such bad information and an overview of what they decide. Both Mr. Senator and you mixed apples with pears in your statement. In one sentence, you're talking about illegal weapons, so-called. Reactivation of deactivated weapons, and in the same sentence, you're talking about the restriction of self-loading semi-automatic weapons. So let me tell you. You have one sweet secret: It's two completely different things. Yes, I understand the European Commission's dislike that any terrorist can buy a reactivated weapon and go shoot a concert hall with it. Believe me, no one at all likes this, not even legal weapons holders, who, by the way, are among the people who make the most of their own compliance with the law. But we're still talking about reactivated weapons, i.e. weapons that were originally military, then very carelessly deactivated, according to the concept of our weapons bill damaged, so that they don't fire at all, and then again by some handyman put back into a state of fire. Yes, that's a really big problem. Note, however, that these weapons have only a very limited range of resources, that no such weapon comes from the Czech Republic. Why? Because we have a well-established weapons depreciation procedure, e.g. Decree of the Ministry of Industry and Trade 371/2002 and put into practice its application. Every damaged weapon must be seen by the police. I'm repeating it here twice. So the solution to the problem of the abuse of reactivated weapons isn't about their ban, because terrorists are bans - we all know where. The solution is to determine the correct degradation procedure. Then there will be nothing on the market that the terrorists can reactivate. [[10.20 hours]] But then we're talking about self-loading weapons of military appearance, as defined by the directive that wants to ban them. And here, Commissioner Jourová, the European Commission is completely wrong. I have found nowhere here any real reason why the Commission wants to ban these weapons. These weapons are only estimated to be around 100 thousand in the Czech Republic. The people and the guns are estimated to be 200 grand. pieces. On a European scale, multiply it by 30-50 times that. These are all legal weapons that only the holder of an arms licence or similar document abroad can access in the European Union, which may be called otherwise than our arms. These are all weapons for which each particular police department must issue a purchase permit, each once registered and regularly checked and tested by the police. Terrorists don't have these weapons and don't use them. At the end of your speech, let me assure you, dear colleagues, that my aim is not to enlist or receive you members of the government coalition into some discomfort. I will propose a resolution for you to read now, and if you like the resolution, I am prepared, perhaps, to discuss a break with my colleagues on some adjustments, so you know, when you place that point on me, what we would approve here. I really think it's important, and I think that time - putting it here that week before the holidays, when we have a whole series of third readings here, I don't know. I think, and I promise that I would no longer make a major contribution to this, that if you included it, I say for myself that we can only vote on the resolution that I will now allow you to read, and I really, really do not ask you to take it lightly and support me with the proposal to include today as a point - ideally the first point, but if other points were already included as a follow-up point. I'm begging you for your support. If it doesn't go through today, let's make a suggestion on the program on the 27th, the 28th, and there's still a meeting on the 20th -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u29	I'm sorry, but what you've given me, you're suggesting 27 as the first point, 8. 12. as the first point and 9. 12th as the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u30	Yes, and today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u31	Yes, that's the day of the 27th. That's today. The 27th, the 8th and the 9th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u32	Yes. Thank you for the clarification. And let me read the motion for a resolution to you at the end, so that if you do, you know what we would vote on. Motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to tighten the conditions for the control, acquisition and possession of weapons and ammunition proposed by the European Commission: 1. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic expresses its opposition to the European Commission's intention to tighten up the control, registration, acquisition and possession of weapons and ammunition which are held and used legally in accordance with the national law of the Member States of the European Union. It is a pity that the two club presidents do not listen to me, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u33	I beg you not to discuss outside the microphone. I ask the lords of the President and of the Member to end the debate and allow the lady to read the resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u34	2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic refuses the European Commission to intervene in a functional system of control, registration, acquisition and possession of weapons and ammunition set up by the law of the Czech Republic. 3. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic expresses its support for the creation of all functional measures to combat illegal trade, acquisition, possession and other handling of weapons and ammunition. 4. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic refuses the European Commission to stop Member States and their citizens illegally tightening up the legal possession of ammunition in response to the tragic events associated with terrorist acts in Paris. 5. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic declares that every citizen of the Czech Republic who fulfils the established legal conditions of the Czech Republic has the right to hold a gun and rejects the repression of the law-abated citizens of the Czech Republic. 6. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic refuses to implement entirely vague measures by the European Commission, which lead to the suppression of the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. 7. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic instructs the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to take all legal and diplomatic steps to prevent the adoption of such a directive which would undermine the Czech rule of law in the field of control, acquisition and possession of weapons and ammunition, thereby interfering with the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. This is a motion for a resolution that I am prepared to discuss with some of you who are interested. And I am really asking you to support this proposal, and I promise that I will not repeat my long introduction that I have just had here. So my aim is not to obstruct, I really consider this law to be very fundamental. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u35	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. Before we continue to discuss any more points, I'll read the note that came to me. Today she apologizes for the hearing of Mrs Zuzana Kailová, further today from 11.00 to the end of the hearing, Mr Petr Kudela, between 12.30 and 14.00 apologizes for the hearing of Mrs Jana Hnyková, from 9.00 to 10.00 apologizes for the reasons of work to Mrs Helena Válková, today from 9.00 to 14.00 because of the meeting in the electoral region, Mr Jiří Holeček apologizes, and today, on account of urgent work obligations, Minister Milan Chovanec apologizes, and during the whole day of the meeting, Mr Milan Urban apologizes. Let's keep going. Mrs Jana Černochová has another application, and it is the subject of the inclusion of a new item - violation or violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to ask the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies to assess the matter that happened here yesterday, which is not pleasant to me, and unfortunately, neither is the chairman of the Security Committee here to respond to that. I would like to include this issue in the programme precisely for the very reason that the chairman of the committee can respond to this, because if he does not have the right of priority, he cannot speak in the debate during the approval of the programme. This is where the Security Committee was called for Tuesday. There is a resolution that you can all read, verified by the committee verifier Mr Richard Dolejš, signed by the committee chair Mr Roman Váňa. [[shows]] Let me read it to you. It is the resolution of the 95th Security Committee of the 22nd meeting held on 11 November 2015 on the draft deadline and agenda of the 23rd meeting of the Security Committee. Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on a proposal from the Chairman of the Roman Váňa Committee I. shall set the date of the 23rd meeting of the Security Committee on Wednesday, 2 December 2015 and 9.00; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to set out the details of the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the Committee in agreement with the Vice-President of the Committee according to the result of the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies. I replayed the tape. Those of you who would have the nerve to do it, so it's 44 minutes 18 seconds and the debate on the schedule takes up to 47 minutes 55 seconds It's the 911 Security Committee. 11. 2015. [[10.30 hours]] I wouldn't mind if the chairman of the Váňa Committee called an emergency meeting for the GIBS, because there really was a debate on the committee that it was impossible to rule out that there would still be a Security Committee meeting to sort out the situation there. But please, not this way. Not in a way that a committee will be convened here, and the chairman of the committee will be completely unprecedented, without agreement with the other Vice-Presidents, without agreement with the members of the permanent GIBS Commission. Mrs. Lorencová is Vice-President, I am Vice-President, Mr. Klučka is Chairman. None of us knew about this. That's how we learn about this place. And I really consider this to be a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I would very much like this situation in the Chamber of Deputies and the Security Committee not to be repeated in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure. In order to convene committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and not so that the President and the Prime Minister and perhaps the Minister of the Interior of Chovanc will decide that they will just whistle on this date, and we will adapt to them. Although the committee, which was properly convened, was not cancelled. So I would recommend to all my colleagues, unless the President decides otherwise, that we meet on the Wednesday we were supposed to meet at 9:00 a.m. when we were supposed to meet and discuss the things we wanted to discuss. Among other things, the weapons that I mentioned here in the previous post, that is exactly the subject that the Security Committee should also address. I hope you will all be on the subject, but where else should it be on the Security Committee? So it's not true that he doesn't have a Security Committee program. And I really am, in order to have Mr Váňa's chance to respond, so I politely ask you to place this item on the agenda for today's meeting, because it would seem unfair for me to be the only one speaking here and not being able to comment on it. Thank you for your attention and please make the data I said before when I propose to include it the same as my previous post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u37	Okay. The item you propose to include is called Breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u38	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u39	Yes. You have priority rights to report to the debate. Okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mrs Černochová has reopened this quite unnecessary matter that we could have resolved in the context of the Security Committee's negotiations, I would just reiterate the facts. On the other hand, according to Section 36 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee shall convene and be chaired by a chairman who shall...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u41	I beg you, Madame, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u42	We can all read this, as is the case under the Rules of Procedure. Then it is true what Mrs Černochová says that we agreed at the committee's meeting that if a law is passed at first reading to the Security Committee, then we will meet on Wednesday at nine o'clock. I signed this resolution and adopted it at the committee meeting. Since no law was given at first reading to the committee, this committee was also not convened on Wednesday at nine o'clock. That's the first thing. And, as Mrs Černochová rightly said, I called on the committee to convene a single thematic committee on the subject of the appointment of the new Director of the General Inspection of the Security Corps. And this situation is happening, and this is how the committee should be convened on Friday. Since it has been called into question how this committee has been convened, i.e. on the basis of a discussion on the committee and my decision, I have therefore decided to use the Rules of Procedure and ask my colleagues from the Security Committee to support this committee with our signatures. Of course, there are more possibilities under the Rules of Procedure, as the Committee is convened, but I have chosen this procedure, and I hope that Mrs Černochová will be satisfied with this procedure under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u43	Thank you. Mrs Černochová reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will certainly be satisfied, but I would be more satisfied if this had been done from the very beginning and if the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies had not been bent in the way we saw it. And regardless of whether you include this in my programme or not, I ask the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to examine this method of calling committees. But thank you for agreeing to set a new date and for complying with the Rules of Procedure. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u45	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Váňa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u46	I would like to a) turn against the accusations of disrespect for the Rules of Procedure, because there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure - first of all. Friday shall be a proper day of procedure during the committee week. Secondly, I would ask Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, not to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and to address the priority right to plenary these matters, which concern purely the deliberations of the Security Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u47	Thank you. This is Mrs Černochová with priority rights. [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u48	Let's do it again. I have a resolution from the Security Committee, which is number 95, which sets the date of the 23rd meeting of the Security Committee on Wednesday, 2 December 2015, at 9 o'clock. [[He's showing the resolution.]] I have an invitation in my left hand for the 23rd meeting of the Security Committee, which will take place on Friday 4 December 2015 from 11 p.m. in the meeting room of the Security Committee A23. That's not two meetings. That's one meeting where somebody's manipulating the deadline. And that's what bothers me. And that's what I'm asking her to check the legislation, if that's how it's possible when we're on committee 11. 11. we all vote that the committee will take place then in so much and so much. Yes, we will give the President the power to draw up a programme with the Vice-Presidents based on how they challenge legislative standards and how they need to be discussed within time limits. However, it is not possible to change the date of the vote on the committee voluntarily and not to call it an extraordinary meeting or meeting otherwise numbered than the one which has been properly convened under the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u49	Thank you. For the record, even though I am aware that you have the right to perform, I would have led you to the order to comment on the agenda of the meeting and its adaptations, if necessary. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to retreat. Replace those to whom the Rules of Procedure confer the right of priority. Ms Černochová, with priority rights, advocated the inclusion of a specific item under the agenda item for the ODS. Mr Váňa, as vice-chairman of the club, is acting with priority rights and talks about the issue of the Security Committee. Who here is taking advantage of the Rules of Procedure from the position of the Rules of Procedure? Mrs Černochová, who proposes the inclusion of a point on behalf of her membership club under a properly approved item in the agenda, or Mr Váňa, who is harassing us with his reservations about Mrs Černochová concerning the Security Committee only. Through the President, you and only you, Mr Váňa, have abused the Rules of Procedure and the priority right. Certainly not Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u51	Mr Pavel Kováčik is claiming priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor. Madam and gentlemen, Mr President, have a good day. I'm sure these gunfights of ours are very interesting to the public, who is anxious to see how it turns out, whether Mr. Váňa's colleague or Mrs. Černochová was right, or who, in fact, and if any truth can be found at all. Please, let's cut to the chase. As far as priority rights are concerned, this has always been the case, and I would like it never to be any different - with priority rights, anyone who is gifted by him can come forward at any time and to anything. The other side of the matter is how much tolerance, with which sense for a certain one I would say proportionality or discretion, the holder of the priority right can speak. But it's actually what I'm saying, or at least I think it's what I'm saying. Again I call, let's get back to the point, virtually. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u53	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u54	Thank you. Let me thank you, Mr President Kováčik, through Mr President for TOP 09, for your words and to thank you for the peace, proportionality and tolerance that I believe you have chosen to be entirely optimally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u55	Thank you. We'll continue as I have the order of applications that have been delivered. Application for an amendment to the approved programme - Mr Radim Holeček reporting. For the record, the proposal to change the show for those who don't have priority rights is five minutes to perform. After that, Mr Karel Fiedler will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u56	Hello. I'm honored to be the first. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly delight Mrs Maxová, the spiritual mother of the amendment tabled by the group of Members, including myself. This is a proposal that was sent to Members on 12. 9. 2014 and it is the same proposal submitted by the previous House, but due to its dissolution it was not discussed at all. Radka Maxová believed in strong support of the amendment to the Act on Registered Partnerships, only by predicting the validity of this standard since 2016. She said the following: If registered couples want to raise children, they should be able to take care of their own child legally and without fear. Children should grow up in a family, whether heterosexual or homosexual. They take away their family habits, it's also the child's safety. However, so far, we are following a similar process to that of the same proposal in the past period. Not that we are melting as the House, so I have not heard anything like it yet, but it seems to me that there is no will to open this controversial subject at all. I don't blame my political party. There will be, as I have verified, very difficult to look for support, but in the current coalition I assumed more enthusiasm for the cause. The year came together and interesting and the much needed amendment did not move even to the first reading. As you know, according to Law No. 115/2006 Coll., on registered partnership, it is possible to enter into registered partnership. In relation to children registered partnerships, it is not an obstacle to parental responsibility towards their own child. According to Article 13 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 The parent's partner is obliged to participate in Therefore, the amendment also addresses the situation in which registered partners live together and raise together the child of one of the partners. The current legislation in the Civil Code distinguishes two types of adoption, common and individual. A common adoption is the adoption of only spouses, and individual adoption is one person. The special thing is that a person who has entered a registered partnership must not adopt a child and a person who lives with his partner of the same sex in an informal union has the opportunity to adopt. After the amendment, there should be a situation, such as today's adoption, when the husband will adopt the child of his wife, which she has from the previous relationship. Colleagues and colleagues, let us note that this is not about adopting a foreign child from foster care that has no family and is legally free, but about adopting a child who lives in the same sex family. In the Czech Republic, there are more and more identical sex families every year, where children are born planned for these couples. Thus, the child has only one parent legally, and since the other one is unknown, he has been raised from the beginning and cared for by two loving parents. In 2011, more than 900 children lived in the same sex families during the census. The big problem with current legislation is that a non-biological parent, a partner or partner, has no rights to a child and is not treated as a legal representative of a child, which, of course, has its limitations, e.g. in the breakdown of a partnership or death of one of the parents. - It's pretty loud in here. - That means we're trying to benefit the child so that two parents are born, not only de facto, but de jure. This adoption is also made possible by a number of other European countries. Let us mention, for example, Germany, France, Great Britain, and Spain. The fact that an adopted non-biological parent will have a maintenance duty and become the legal representative of the child also plays a role for the child. Furthermore, it is important that the court and the child over the age of 12 decide on adoption, which will have to give consent to such a step. I decided to support this amendment after I met the fates of my lesbian students at the university. [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] The most significant is the story of two young women planning to start a family, and one of them works as a police officer. Today and every day, we stress how dangerous today's world is. Even in view of the latest terrorist attacks in Europe, we cannot be surprised that this lesbian woman, a police officer who does not have legal certainty that a child can be raised by a partner in the event of her death, has a difficult position in deciding her future. Such as and like them -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u57	Dear Member, I have registered a proposal for a change of programme from you, and your five minutes have passed to defend this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u58	Such cases would be dealt with by this amendment. I am asking from this place to support this adjustment and I am asking for this point to be the first item today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u59	Your time, Mr. Ambassador!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u60	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u61	Thank you. Next is Mr Karel Fiedler, and Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared. You have five minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u63	The other colleagues and colleagues are asked to be quieted down so that they can understand what is being lectured. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u64	I would like to include a new item on the agenda entitled Information of the Minister of Industry and Trade for the payment of aid for the production of electricity from renewable sources. I suggest you put it at 8. 12. as the first point of action, given its great importance and the large amount of funds it concerns. Only renewable electricity producers installed in 2013 and 2015 have a positive notification decision at the moment. There is no positive notification decision by any other manufacturing company. Expressed in money, support for notified resources amounts to about 3.5 billion. CZK and so far there is no support for non-notified resources in the estimated amount of CZK 42 billion. Kč. These are annual amounts, and they will be paid from 10 to 12 years. The effective wording of the Energy Supported Sources Act states that the amount and scope of the aid are not fixed if the aid is contrary to the conditions for granting public aid laid down by European Union law or by Commission decisions issued on the basis of it. So resources without notification should not receive support. On this there is also a European commitment of the Czech Republic, namely Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 3 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union reads as follows: The Member State concerned shall not implement the measures envisaged until a final decision has been taken by the Commission in this procedure. [[10.50 hours]] In the Czech Republic, the amount and scope of the aid is determined by the Energy Regulatory Authority on the basis of the law. The aid is then paid on the basis of the requirements of the distribution companies, which is 100% owned by the Czech Republic and where it exercises the MIT's shareholder rights. Between 2013 and 2015, the Energy Regulatory Authority repeatedly pointed out in its pricing decisions that the law prohibits the payment of aid in listed cases. The MIT has always made the government aware that the notification will soon be completed, allowing its subsidiaries to pay their money. This year, however, the situation has changed dramatically. In March this year, the MIT confirmed to all Members that the purchase prices of renewable energy were poorly set in the past. The MIT also stated clearly at the end of October as a gesturer of energy legislation, referring to Section 1 (3) of Act 165 on supported energy sources, that the amount and scope of support for energy sources which do not have a positive notification decision by the European Commission should not be set in the ERU price decision. Finally, Minister Mládek himself admitted this after Wednesday's visit to the President, where he promised that the government would resolve the conflict with the law by approving the guarantee so that the regulator could declare support in accordance with the law. Minister Mládek has today, as far as I know, in Brussels to find out how the European Commission stands up for the Czech support of solar cells. On Wednesday, he promised the President and publicly promised that the government would guarantee the Energy Regulatory Authority so that the ERU could write out the support. It will be very interesting to monitor the outcome of the Minister's return. I am therefore interested in whether the support for Brussels will be approved and under what conditions. In the meantime, only renewable electricity producers from 2013 to 2015 have a positive notification decision. I want to know what the government's guarantee will look like. Will the government take responsibility for illegal action? There are certainly effects on the entire renewable energy sector and on the banking sector. It is even possible that the Czech Republic will have to go to international courts. This, too, should be the subject of our discussion. I want to know who's to blame. Who let it get this far? Why Minister Mládek hasn't solved it in two years. I hope that you, colleagues, too, will find this information so serious that you, like I, want to know the answers to the questions that I have raised here, and you will therefore support the inclusion of a point on Tuesday when Minister Mládek should already know this position from Brussels. [[Time warning]] Thank you for supporting this very serious point -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u65	Thank you, Congressman, your time. Mr Ivan Adamec, now duly signed in, and Mr Jan zahradník will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna go back to the ground a little bit and under the ground because I've heard about the guns, so I've had a bit of a mess. But seriously, practically. I have here a proposal for the nomination of paragraph 14, which is the House Press 500, it is a government bill amending Act No. 44/1998 Coll., on the protection and use of mineral wealth, the so-called Upper Law, as amended. When I listened here, when President Stanjura here said how many unapproved laws we have of this meeting, I think that this law, in terms of the stability of this sector and in terms of debatability on the Economic Committee, would have a great chance of going through this plenary, including the amendments that I will mention in a moment. So I propose that this point be placed at the first point today, or, in case it doesn't seem to you, for the fixed points today. I would perhaps refresh you on what is going on, because not everyone is interested in this issue. I must say that it is a proposal to amend the proportion of revenue from the payment of the minerals received between the state budget of the Czech Republic and the municipality and to simplify and make the procedure for calculating, collecting and recovering payments and increasing the revenue from payments from the premises received. In summary, there is a change in the method of calculating the compensation for the premises earned, a change in the distribution of the revenue from the compensation. The state gains more than the municipalities, there is an increase in compensation for some of the minerals earned, is calculated from the amount of minerals, and there is an increase in compensation from the conquering areas, is calculated from the area of the mine. The change in the calculation of the remuneration for the premises earned, so this is very interesting, in the original version of the Mining Act, the amount of compensation for the minerals earned was calculated on the basis of a rather complicated formula, which was amended by Decree No. 616/1992 Coll., as amended. The formula included a coefficient of varying height for each type of mineral. Part of the amendment to this Mining Act is also a proposal for a new decree, where the previously complicated formula is replaced by a formula simple, mathematically expressed and times b, where and is the price in crowns for the volume unit of individual types of minerals and b is the quantity of volume unity in tonnes or cubic meters. The amount of remuneration increases to approximately double for all types of minerals. The exception is black coal, brown coal in the deep, radioactive minerals, oil and flammable natural gas. As regards the amount of remuneration for the occupied premises from the mining premises, the compensation according to the current version of the Mining Act is paid in the amount of CZK 100 to 1000 per hectare according to the size of the mine. The specific amount should be determined by the Government's regulation on the basis of the environmental impact of extraction, but this Regulation has never been issued before. In the end, all the miners de facto paid only CZK 100 per hectare, or the lowest possible amount. The amendment provides for a total fee of CZK 1000 per hectare, except for minerals, where the specified mining activity is not permitted. Here is the remuneration of CZK 300 per hectare. All payments for the conquest area are received by the municipalities. Well, how does the amount change? So far, the compensation from the recovered areas has been distributed in proportion to 75 per cent of the municipality in whose cadastral territory the mines are located and 25 per cent of the state. The new general ratio is proposed in proportion to 38 percent of the municipality, 62 percent of the state budget. This division does not apply to coal, brown coal consumed in the depths, radioactive minerals and oil and flammable natural gas, where the current distribution remains, a quarter of the state, three quarters of the municipality. The State's revenue from the remuneration for the premises received will remain distributed at a rate of 60 per cent. The direct revenue of the State budget of 40 per cent will be assigned to the budget chapters of the MIT and the Ministry of Environment to remedy environmental damage caused by the conquest of premises. The impact is about 127 miles. CZK to the state budget, the impacts on municipal budgets are neutral. Since my time has run out and I do not want to delay, I have not been able to get to the amendments to ask you to support the assignment of that point because it has a high chance of approval, and I think it is an important stabilising element for this sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u67	Thank you. For the record, are you suggesting this as a first point? [[Ambassador Adamec answers off the microphone.]] Or fixed today. Okay, thank you. Let's keep going. I will now ask for the speech of Mr Zahradník and Mrs Miroslava Němcová will prepare herself. It's a point of conservation, first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put forward a proposal to amend the approved agenda for our meeting, specifically on the Government's proposal for Amendment 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape. We have already begun to discuss this law on 7 October of the same year. At that time, the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec gave the opening speech and his rapporteur, Dr. Robin Böhnisch, spoke for the Committee on the Environment. A discussion was launched, which I think was held at that time by seven Members. I had the honour of being able to speak first, but since the time had expired to discuss the items included in the programme and came on the agenda for an election point, I had to interrupt my speech with the fact that I would continue my speech during the next inclusion of that point. [[11.00 hours]] When we think about the reasons for this proposal, we find that the reason is not that the environmental situation in our Republic is somehow unsatisfactory. We know the state of nature is improving. Nor is it because there are major problems in protected areas or national parks. The cause is undoubtedly the situation right inside, but also around the Šumava National Park. Some year ago, we rejected the Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava, a proposal that had very broad support for both Šumava municipalities, both regions on which the national park lies, but also representatives of a certain part of the scientific community and quite a large part of the public. That is when our House succumbed to the pressure of environmental activists and perhaps some backstage agreements and we rejected the proposal. Therefore, it must be openly admitted that this proposal, the amendment to Law 114, is actually a law that will decide on the further development of Šumava. Whether it will still be saved at the last moment as a green mountain range as it has been for centuries, or whether it will open up a way to transform into a wilderness, a path the end of which not even environmentalists who dream of it, or related scientists, know. I feel that the inhabitants of Sumava, a large part of its visitors and citizens of both regions, are anxious to see the House deal with this proposal. And I also watch this proposal move in our program. He's even included on today's day as item No. 68, but I'm really worried that his discussion isn't going to happen today. And in the end, I think that's a good thing. I think that is a good thing, because I am convinced that it would be right in my opinion to allow those who care about Sumava to be able to follow the procedure of our discussion in person here at the guest gallery in the Chamber. If you recall how the Senate bill was discussed, you will recognize that those who participated then followed our actions calmly and without any problems despite its outcome. I think that both supporters and opponents of this law should have the opportunity and the right to know on which day the proposal is placed and when it will be discussed, so that they can consider and decide whether or not they support it by their presence, whether or not they are against it, will affect how the negotiations will turn out. It is in accordance with the law and I think it is in accordance with the traditions of our House and these citizens have the right to do so. Therefore, I dare suggest that point No. 68 approved programme, which is a government bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended, House printing 501, first reading, interrupted, was ranked as a fixed point on Wednesday 9 December 2015 at 14.30 hours as the first point after lunch break. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u69	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. So now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová will speak with the Government's point of information on the security situation and Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u70	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to agree to propose a new item for the agenda of our meeting entitled Information of the Government on the security and migration situation in the Czech Republic and the situation in the European Union. That's what these reasons lead me to do. If you remember correctly, in February this year, the Chamber of Deputies, by an absolute majority, I suspect 155 votes from perhaps 170 or 180, how many of us were here, I do not remember exactly, adopted the motion for a resolution in which item No. 2 reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to keep the House informed of the positions it will advocate in all foreign negotiations dealing with security and migration policy. I stress the word 'continent information' because it is important given how dramatically and unfortunately the situation with migrants in the territory of the European Union is developing. If I say that dramatically and unfortunately yet, for this reason, I find another reason in one of our resolutions, I will discuss it later, which we adopted in October of this year and concerns this topic. He's refusing at point 2 there. The Chamber of Deputies has a permanent redistribution mechanism to introduce the redistribution of refugees by means of mandatory quotas for each Member State of the European Union. In that last February resolution, we still have item No. 6 in which we support the free movement of persons within the Schengen area and reject proposals to limit it. At the same time, we support the common practice of the countries of the European Union to increase the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area. And what is it, ladies and gentlemen? You may have noticed after the attack in Paris, as Jean-Claude Juncker basically said: nothing's happening, we're moving on. Perhaps you have noticed how German Chancellor Angela Merkelová defends the thesis on a mandatory permanent mechanism for redistributing refugees yesterday in the Bundestag, making this situation subject to the fact that Schengen space can only be maintained. I am talking about this because the Chamber of Deputies adopted its resolution to maintain the Schengen area, and it has not changed that resolution. The government is committed to keeping us informed, and the government does not do so. I expected that, given the escalating situation in Europe, when France is in a state of emergency, we could see what was happening in Belgium, Germany was expecting 800 thousand at first. refugees, this year probably by the end of the year it will be more than a million - they do not know how to deal with them and so they want to redistribute them. Yesterday or yesterday, Germany's security forces announce that terrorists are coming among migrants, that although this is not systematic work in the context of the migration flow, they warn that they are in the territory of the European Union. There were images of what he might look like. new Schengen - one picture Czech Republic is in, another picture Czech Republic is not in. If we don't care about all this, if we don't care that, in this situation, the government didn't come before the House on Tuesday when we started - and I was hoping that it would do it, that it would respect the resolution it imposed on it, and, on the other hand, that it would have the ambition to calm the Czech public as well and to report more comprehensively in this way than it would by means of gunfights in the media between the President and the Prime Minister, which, in any case, do not lead to the calming down of our citizens. We have also warned before that it can happen - and this is happening throughout Europe - to radicalize the forces that will want to benefit from this situation. We witness that in the Czech Republic the President of the Republic, who is singing the Czech anthem on stage with Mr. Doc, is leading these radical forces. A konvička that wants to grind people into meat-and-bone meal! Ladies and gentlemen, these are all so serious things that excite our citizens, and they want to hear from them some government attitude, how it gets allies to implement the House of Deputies' resolution that Schengen will not be restricted, that there will be no permanent quotas, that Schengen external borders will be secured. There's nothing going on! There is only talk in the European Union, which is completely incompetent! Mrs Mogherini is inventing a stupid type of prohibition on imports of products from Israel - probably marked by a yellow star or something - and in the meantime, this is what's happening. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] That is why I propose this point, and I am asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u71	Thank you, too. I register your proposal for this item to be ranked as the first point on Tuesday 8. 12. Mr Petr Bendl will now appear and Mrs Jana Fischerová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me, as part of the draft amendment to the agenda, to sign up for this meeting and to propose an amendment to the item, namely the item on the agenda, not the inclusion of a new item, but as item No. 103, House Press 478, we have a proposal from Members Miroslav Kalousek and František Laudát on the issue of the Act repealing Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse. I would like to propose that this important point be discussed as far as possible before the second reading takes place in the Chamber of Deputies of this relevant bill, because it seems fair to me that we should discuss both of these proposals when we have it on the agenda of this meeting, if possible, together. We are now in a situation where we have a valid law on significant market power, and I think that experience shows that the law is basically toothless and is useless, because I note that it is a selective law, it concerns significant market power only in some sectors of trade in the Czech Republic, it concerns food and agriculture and does not concern any other parts of the business life of the Czech Republic, which I consider fatally wrong because it harms the food and agricultural sector and puts it at a disadvantage to foreign partners in particular. I can read you some of the official materials from the Office's official website on competition protection, the results of the investigation into the market power control department, so that you can see what practice is and how horribly this law doesn't actually work, and the law that we have on the table today, and the experience from the use of the applicable law, in fact, show that what we have on the table today, that it just can't and won't work in practice. The results of the investigation of the Market Power Control Department show, for example, where there are about five full employees at the Office for Competition today, I do not know how much the number of employees of the ÚOHS will have to be strengthened to start checking on individual food and agricultural sector operators and to check whether private suppliers and customers have relations between themselves that the State wishes and whether they respect all the legal loops that we are not only planning on them, but which we already have today. Five officials are to stand on a valid law on significant market power. I can only quote some sentences to prove to you that the law is inoperable, and the law that we are debating today, which, on the contrary, is still creating a market situation and will complicate the lives of our entrepreneurs, thereby putting them at a disadvantage to foreign competition. That it really is today, and what is about to happen to us is certainly not good. That is why I think it is necessary to discuss the proposal to repeal this law at the same time as the negotiation and approval of the new law, which brings more bureaucracy. For example, I quote from the outcome of the investigation of the Market Force Control Department: In particular, the last of these facts noted that there was uncertainty among the entities whose activities are affected by the law as to how to proceed so that they do not conflict with the law. There are a number of unclear interpretations of this law. It is not quite clear where the path leads, who is an important market force and who is not and in which area it is not, because the individual fields of activity that interfere with this issue are not specified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u73	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, your time is up. Anyway, I'm registering your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u74	Therefore, I propose that we address this bill as either the first point of today or the last fixed point of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u75	Thank you. I will now ask for a speech from Mr Jana Fischerová and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u76	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have a new point on the agenda today, but I will start by saying that it does not have to be today, because I think it would not fit as a first point today. I'll tell you what's going on. This concerns the public control system. If I look around, as I always say, I have had practice in municipalities, whether the city or the region, and this is a matter that concerns our whole Czech Republic, especially mayors and mayors, but it affects every citizen, because the system of public administration controls is not solved. I will appeal to the House Press, which was under No. 530, and such a major initiative arose in the committee in which I work, and it is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. It was then in 2014, when we asked for this House press to be included, and after 13 months he came here to the House and it was 9. 4. The date of 9 May 2011 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. The President of our Committee on Public Administration has justified the entire House press and a vote has been taken at the end. I would like to stress here that the vote on the resolution, which actually authorised the Government to present to us by the end of June of this year how the system of controls in public administration works, turned out to be 135 of 138 Members, or only three abstentions, for this system of checks to be presented to us. It was supposed to be until the first semester. To this day, this has not been the order of the day. That's why I consider it a very serious point. I'm very helpful because I don't require it to be included today. I was gonna intersect Minister Dienstbier yesterday, but he was excused this morning, and I'm gonna say why to Minister Dienstbier. Because he submitted a government bill on the SAO. Everything has to do with it, because the control and design of this law are interlinked with the competence of self-government. We are still waiting for the Public Administration Committee and we will probably wait, so this law cannot be further discussed. I'm looking at the chairman of the inspection committee, I'm sure he'd like that, too. I think it affects many committees, but especially citizens of our Czech Republic. My colleague from the Public Administration Committee Jiří Petrů also sits here, who also pointed out this in the Chamber of Deputies. It was April 9th. On October 7 we returned precisely to the fact that this resolution is not implemented, so the question is when we will have an answer. Therefore, I will not demand an answer today and the inclusion of this item in the program, I am benevolent. Mr President, if I may ask you to include this on Wednesday 16. 12. firmly after discussing third reading points. And if this doesn't work out, I'm giving the other option 17. 12. as the eighth point after written interpelations, because I closely watched which points are already included there. I stress once again that this is very important, and I just briefly quote the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of 11 November. [[11.20 hours]] "The Committee on Public Administration interrupts the discussion of the House's press 610 until the submission of government material, which will clearly inform Members of the existing system of controls in public administration when drawing public funds within the meaning of resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic No. 708 of the 26th meeting held on 9 April 2015.' And I would also like to draw the attention of Members to this book - International experience of the SAO. [[shows]] It's practical, and I think we can make a lot of use of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u77	Your time, Madame. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u78	Yes. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u79	Thank you. I register your suggestions for the inclusion of points - Wednesday 16th after the third reading or the next day after the written interpelations as 8th point. Thank you. Mr Marek Benda will now appear and Mr Pavel Blažek will be prepared after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u80	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to propose a new point at this meeting, and this item should read as follows: Report from the Minister of Interior on the merger of the Organized Crime Detection Unit with corruption and extortion. I think it is imperative that we address this situation. I would like to quote - and I will do it exactly - yesterday's article from Radiožurnal, from the pages of Czech Radio, because I think we need to know what is really happening and what problems our elite police force is getting into. But I'd rather quote precisely that I was not later accused by Colonel Šlachta of saying something wrong about him. "GIBS found sensitive police documents at the Brno businessman's, he's suspected of being blackmailed. Brno businessman Albin Arifovič faces suspicion of extortion. Radiožurnal gathered testimony from several businessmen, from whom the entrepreneur wanted money or loan. Arifovič told them that the police would stop caring about them or that he would get more information on their case. The remarkable thing about the whole thing is that he was also an informant of the Organized Crime Detection Unit. So he got some sensitive information that he could use. Businessman Arifovič was arrested by the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps at the end of October this year and accused him of bribing Detective ÚOOZ Luděk V. According to Radiožurnal information, the businessman gave him, among other things, a car and a luxury bag. As a result, a police officer is prosecuted for abuse of the authority of an official and acceptance of bribes. Shortly after the indictment, GIBS conducted a house search at Albin Arifovič. In doing so, she found a huge amount of police material for important people from the underworld, business and politics. Most of the documents come from a police information system called Bedrunka. I mean, from a database only a cop can work with. Radiožurnal had the opportunity to inspect the search log. How such information could have gotten to an entrepreneur is now being investigated by the Inspector General. GIBS spokesperson Radka Sandorová didn't want to comment on the case at all. Neither was the spokesperson of the regional prosecutor's office in Brno, who is now overseeing the matter. In view of the current state of criminal proceedings, we will not comment on the matter, says Hynek Olma, the spokesperson for Brno prosecutors. Blackmailing rich businessmen. Most of the internal materials found in Arifovič concerned cases that were being processed or are currently being processed by police officers from the Organized Crime Detection Unit." Now I'm not going to quote exactly what these cops had at their disposal because I wouldn't fit in time, but I'd like to quote the final part of this material. "The testimony of businessmen and some police officers shows that Albin Arifovič was in contact with several detectives from the Organized Crime Detection Unit. He also collaborated with the head of Robert Šlachta. I'm not denying I know Mr. Arifovič. Our contacts were purely professional and we have not seen each other in person and have not been in contact for several years, confessed Šlachta." I think this is a very serious problem. So did Idnesa yesterday, which is again the newspaper of the Vice-President of the Government, virtually. the server, discovered a record of the trial in which the person seeking the status of cooperating accused and undoubtedly testifying in favour of the prosecution, says the following: The accounting Peskim Peskim and another of the defendants Jana Šádková stated on Wednesday at her statement that the police promised her money when they applied to the status of cooperating accused. Jaroslav Kubiska has confirmed it now. 'I know she was offered money by the police, I was at that meeting. When asked by the judge - which means in court, under criminal sanctions - the judge added that the money was offered by police officers from the Organized Crime Detection Unit. I think that these are such serious indications that it is imperative that the Chamber of Deputies deal with them. I suggest we go Tuesday, 8:00. 12. They have classified this as the first point, or if such a will were not in this House, then after the fixed points. And it's supposed to be called Report from the Minister of Interior on the merger of the Organized Crime Detection Unit with corruption and extortion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That means 8. 12. as the first point or after fixed points. Okay. I'm marking it. Next, Mr Pavel Blažek will appear and Mr Martin Novotný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u82	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I also come up with a proposal to put forward a point that would not be discussed at this meeting today. It's point 650/0. It is called a government bill on the use of funds from property criminal sanctions imposed in criminal proceedings and on the amendment of certain laws. Two reasons lead me to this proposal. One is objective, the other is subjective. The objective reason is that when the government prepares such material or bill proposal for such a serious matter, my Moravian respect for the Czech government commands me to help the government to discuss this important material as soon as possible. That's the first thing. And then there's a subjective reason. I've been a Member for two years, I haven't really been a rapporteur yet. I'm supposed to be a correspondent for this law. And I just can't wait to be the rapporteur. [[Laughs of some Members.]] And it bothers me very much that this law is going far away in some way. I don't underestimate any of you ladies and gentlemen. I know perfectly well that you know what this law is about. However, to remind you of the importance of this law, it is good to say a little something about this law so that we can understand what the law is so important that it should not just lie there. The main objective of the proposed legislation is to eliminate the present undesirable situation, where the damage granted to them by the person liable for damages or property damage caused to them by criminal offences or the right to receive unwarranted enrichment which the perpetrator has acquired by any criminal offence shall not, on account of the lack of assets of the perpetrator, obtain the full satisfaction of such claim, even though it has been secured in the criminal proceedings and through penalties imposed, i.e. penalties and safeguard measures imposed, drained property which could be used to satisfy their claims, special funds whose income consists, inter alia, of confiscated proceeds from criminal activities and other assets arising from criminal proceedings, such as cash penalties and other payments. In some states, the perpetrators are obliged to contribute a certain amount to the Fund. In Belgium, for example, it is EUR 25. In the US, the amount of fees varies according to the severity of the crime committed and whether it is from $400 to legal persons. In Finland it is 500 Swedish crowns. That means about three crowns if the perpetrator is threatened with an unconditional sentence of imprisonment. Thus, they are also known for foreign legislation, such as the legislation of the United States of America, Canada, Australia, Great Britain, Finland, Belgium, Spain and Italy. Most of these funds are used for the benefit of victims of crime or for social purposes. These funds pay for financial assistance to victims of violent crimes, medical expenses, painful and so on. In France, victims who do not fall under the cash aid scheme may claim compensation from the SARVI Fund, which, if the perpetrator voluntarily does not pay the damage caused by the crime, will pay the damage in full instead if the damage is less than or equal to a thousand dollars. If it is higher, it provides an advance of up to three thousand - I apologize for saying dollars but euros. [[11.30 hours]] In Canada, assets that have fallen into criminal proceedings, have been monetized and transferred to a special account from which funds can be used to satisfy the property claims of victims of criminal offences, to cover the costs of caring for deceased property, for grants, for programmes for the benefit of victims of crime. The criminal legislation of States which do not allow the use of funds which have been confiscated by the State as a return or instrument of crime for the benefit of the victim of criminal activity establishes that such confiscation will not take place if this would endanger the satisfaction of the property claims of victims of criminal activity. In general, it can be noted that, in particular, the so-called states. Western Europe is set up transparently for the use of funds obtained by confiscating instruments and proceeds from crime, separate systems from the state budget, for example through government funds. Some States directly leave the assets acquired to self-governing local authorities and non-profit organisations. While some states carry funds thus received into the state budget, their amount is known and there are rules in the state budget for their redistribution either to social funds or to specific programmes managed by the State, or they are divided between the authorities involved in obtaining them. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that I have convinced you that this item needs to be discussed as soon as possible, and I therefore propose it as item number 1 of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u83	Thank you, that means 27. 11th as the first point. Mr Martin Novotný will now appear and Mr Václav Klučka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u84	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking with a proposal to include a new point on the issue which is important in relation to the forthcoming start of the following calendar year. I believe that the inclusion of this point is important from the point of view of time distress, and I will try to explain to you what this point is important and essential for a huge number of people in the Czech Republic. When discussing the amendment to Act No. 406/2000 Coll., on energy management, I have repeatedly pointed out issues called. heat ratio indicators and the risks of their use for the purpose of billing payments between residents of residential buildings. I would like to remind those of you who did not have this technical name for these measuring instruments, that I was then, and not only I, many other Members, and then also senators in the Senate version of the law, we all pointed out in particular that this law-established heat ratio indicators were not measured under the Metrology Act. Thus, we pointed out the problematicity of their application in relation to both the physical principles of the heating of residential buildings, we pointed out the role of human factor in this phenomenon, the importance of the agreement between residents in the settlement of heat costs and, in particular, the overall problematic reliability of these devices, the low explanatory value of their outputs. I stressed that their application may lead to legal uncertainty. And we're talking about a problem that may concern hundreds of thousands of Czech residents who live in apartment buildings, i.e. They don't live in family houses, they share one apartment house together. It happened that the Senate version of this law eventually eased the adjustment, originally strict, by opening up the possibility of not installing these meters in objects where it does not pay off. In this context, I would like to recall the words made by Minister Mládek on 10 Apriltento and I quote it. "Reaction to this discussion" - i.e. the approval of the Senate version - was the award of a study already carried out by the Czech Technical University, which will address the cost-effective installation of heat meters. Upon completion of this study, its conclusions can be easily implemented into the legal order of the Czech Republic at the level of implementing legislation." According to the Minister, there is therefore room for rapid legislative adjustment according to the study conclusions, i.e. it is possible to provide for exemptions from the obligation in cases where the installation of these equipment registering the supply of heat would be cost-inefficient. We have the end of November and according to my information the study of the Czech Technical University was to be submitted to the Ministry of Industry and Trade on 16 September this year. However, it has actually been returned twice for completion. Last time, November 12th, she said she didn't fit the assignment. The conclusion of the study is said to be such that no general rule can be established that objects can be divided into mandatory or optional for installation of these gauges, in quotation marks, but that the only possible way is to carry out an audit for each object individually. At the same time, the employees of the Ministry of Industry repeatedly do not want to hear the arguments of the professional processors from the Czech Technical University that such a solution simply does not exist. I also have information that it has taken place at the level of negotiations with the European Commission and that there is supposed to be some kind of agreement on how to deal with this situation. Therefore, the sum of the sum, this study is not yet complete. I wonder on what basis, therefore, the negotiations with the European Commission could have taken place. At the same time, I have a number of examples of the results of the heat bill already used from specific objects in two years in a row based on the application of different methods, including the use of these ratio indicators. These individual methods differ in their results so much that it relativizes any objectivity or meaningful use of such equipment. Colleagues and colleagues, I must say that today and every day I am contacted by e-mail or by telephone citizens, and this concerns indeed hundreds of thousands of people living in apartment houses who, in connection with the approaching beginning of the year -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u85	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but your time is up. Your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u86	Okay. This concerns a huge number of citizens, and I propose that the Minister answer the questions as part of the inclusion of the point on Wednesday 9 December as the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u87	Yes, I've got it marked, thank you. Mr Václav Klučka will now appear and Mr Martin Lank will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u88	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'm a little worried that my brief and pragmatic performance can go away in a mix of all the topics that are going on here today. So the proposal is that we take the points from program 8, 9, 10, as I read them, print 455, 456 and 502, please, it's the military legislation that we discussed here at second reading, to put these points firmly at the start of the third reading block on Wednesday, December 16.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u89	Thank you, that means 16. 12. the first three points in the third reading block, point 8, 9, 10. Thank you. Mr Martin Lank will now prepare Mr Ladislav Vilímec, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not question the importance of the laws that colleagues here want to put forward, and I also consider some important. At least one of them I'd like to suggest a pre-election here. In particular, I would like to propose a priority discussion of point No. 107, which is the House Press 525, and I would like to include it on Tuesday, 8 December for the already fixed points. It is already mentioned amendment to the Criminal Code, which is intended to clearly determine the criminality of the military service in so-called. Islamic State. The problem is that today the law prohibits military service in foreign states, but the Islamic State is not a recognised state from the point of view of international law and therefore does not apply to it or to it. We have a comprehensive legal analysis that clearly states that this is a real problem. I consider it important that security services do not oppose this proposal either. In the course of our seminar, which we held on this bill, they have clearly confirmed this to us. [[11.40 hours]] I would also point out that this is not only an initiative for our club, i.e. the Dawn - National Coalition, but also signed by colleagues from the coalition. It is clear that, especially in the shadow of the terrorist attacks that are taking place around Europe, it is necessary to adapt the Czech legal order to the current security risks, because it simply did not count on something similar. I would therefore appeal to you because I think that we should all consider the security of the Czech Republic to be absolutely primary. Security services across Europe warn against increasing the risk of terrorism, and thousands of Evropan are leaving for the Islamic State's army, and no one can rule out Čech leaving. And I think we should be prepared for this option. After all, yesterday, the Slovak Information Service even admitted that it has indications that the Slovák can fight for the terrorist organization of the Islamic State. According to the communication by the spokesman of this service, Slovakia has left several people who suspect that they could have been involved in radical speeches in these areas during the past period. The fact that the Slovák were really fighting for the Islamic State was confirmed by one of the rebels with whom the Slovak journalists filmed an interview on the Syrian-Turkish border, and he literally said: There are people of all nationalities, there are also Slovák, all of them foreign. Ladies and gentlemen, there are clear words from the leading European statesmen that we are at war with the Islamic State. We must start acting like this in the Czech Republic, and I therefore ask you once again to support the inclusion of this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u91	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vladislav Vilímec will now appear and Mr Rom Kostřica will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u92	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have applied as one of the proponents of the bill, as one of the proponents together with Jana Černochová, Radek Vondráček, Jiří Junk and Jana Hnyková, to the Act amending Act No. 212/2009 Coll., which alleviates property injustices to citizens of the Czech Republic for real estate that these citizens have left in the territory of the Podkarpatian Russians in connection with its contractual assignment to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I volunteered to propose a solid inclusion of paragraph 93, this is the House's 403. I would like to add that it is really necessary to discuss the bill without delay, either to reject it or to discuss it, especially for time reasons. The proposal is designed in such a way that only the original owner is entitled to compensation. The problem is that none of the original owners live or are children of the original owners who are over 80 years old and who are also naturally leaving this earthly world. That is, if we do not want to sit this deadline as a state, which would not suit the rule of law in the Czech Republic, then we must adopt an amendment. However, I will be very considerate and helpful to the Chamber of Deputies and also to the Vice-President, because I have noticed in the meantime that a similar proposal was made in the speech of President Stanjura from our club for a firm inclusion in the variant arrangement, so that it could actually be included, if the House so decides, for every day of the remaining agenda of the meeting. That is why I would not want to make a duplicate proposal, and I am therefore forced to withdraw this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u93	If I have understood this correctly, does that mean voting on the inclusion for each meeting day?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u94	Yes, but he has already suggested it by Mr Stanjura, so as not to duplicate the proposal, so I am withdrawing this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u95	You're downloading your proposal, well, thank you. Mr Rom Kostřica will now come and prepare Mr František Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u96	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to address the honourable House on the inclusion of a new point in the House programme as follows: the issue of road network repairs, in particular the D1 motorway in 2016, the timetable and the local timetable. It seems to be premature at present, but 2016 is at the door, and I would like the House to actually deal with this issue, because I consider the corrections that have been made to date under this or that Minister of Transport to be completely inadequate, and it certainly does not affect only drivers who are affected by these corrections, but it affects all of us. I would particularly like to concentrate on not having such hugely long local closures, i.e. 10, 12, 14 km, when motorway currents are pulled into two narrow lanes and it is logical that there is a much better chance of a malfunction, whether it is an accident or a malfunction of the respective trucks or other vehicles, and at that point the four currents, two in one direction, are narrowed to one and there are extraordinary columns. This does not only result in huge time costs for all road users, but it is also about the fact that the amount of fuel consumed will increase extremely, of course it will also result in a significant increase in exhalates, and I believe that such a driver or the crew of the car that is moving two hours in such a queue will gain a huge amount of carcinogens into their bodies, not to mention the other problems. I believe that these long closures are beneficial for companies participating in the repair of these motorways, but I think that the Czech driver would deserve that these closures are always much shorter. In addition, we also met with the fact that in places where these closures are located, the routes where some closure occurs are repaired at the same time and then some possibility of hugging these obstacles is absolutely zero. Another thing I would like to discuss is the fact that we have all been alerted to the fact that the repairs will only take place during the day, because otherwise the night traffic is disproportionately more expensive. I believe that in the current, especially better economic situation, the Czech Republic could have enough money to provide several dozen workers who would work during the night. If less than half of this motorway surface is currently being repaired, in the event that it would then be working at night, we would be basically already at the moment before the complete renovated section of the D1 motorway is opened. I don't have it exactly verified, but I do know that, just for comparison, at a time when the motorway network of the Federal Republic of Germany was being occupied, there was an average of over 400 km of new motorway network per year, which means that it opened daily more than one kilometer of motorway network in Germany. If we were to proceed in the same way, in one year we would be able to rebuild the entire highway. So I think that would certainly be possible, and I believe that these impacts, not to mention the problems that are based on the dangers and severe injuries that may then have... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I would like this point to be placed on 9 December as the first one after the fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u97	Thank you. Mr. František Laudát will now appear with the application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not gonna take advantage of priority rights. I'm surprised that the time to approve the program is so long today. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I don't know what's funny. That's very rusty. However, this has to do with the fact that it shows what priorities this coalition has. I want to draw attention to this huge mess that we've been talking about. We on the Economic Committee have known about this for a while, too, and I think that all Members of Parliament should hear qualified and verifiable information. That is why I am making a proposal for the inclusion of a point which I would call the Information of the Minister for the Environment on the impact of the EIA's environmental impact on the construction of transport infrastructure. Since - and it can be verified on the applications that I thought the program would be approved by about 10 o'clock today, and I proposed a solid 10 o'clock classification, so I can change this and I would ask you to place it firmly as the next point on Wednesday 9. 12. after the budget, because I consider the budget to be an absolute priority, i.e. after the budget after the third reading, for this to be included. In short, what's going on. On the basis of the strict request of the European Union, the Czech Republic had to amend the Act on Environmental Impact Assessment and this was also done by the Ministry of Environment as a resorting guarantor of this issue. During the negotiations on the Economic Committee, we repeatedly called on the Ministry of Environment to the House - that the proposal be adapted to minimise requirements that are only necessary to meet the requirements of the European Union. Despite unanimous or almost unanimous agreement across the political spectrum in the Economic Committee, this did not happen. Madam Deputy, I don't know now, I don't remember the name, she went there with the options and choose, but then more or less the Ministry chose the variant, which is worse. We have information that there is a law in force today that does not allow, or very complicates the discussion of this part of the necessary documentation for the location of the building, and I am talking in particular about transport infrastructure, but what is worse, it can be claimed to be applied retroactively... If you don't mind me asking for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u99	I'll give you peace, Mr. Ambassador. I didn't mean to waste your time. I ask you, fellow Members, to move your matters you need to discuss into the lobby. Please. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u100	Thank you. So it can also be applied to constructions that have already been financed from European funds. I would consider that a tragedy and there are up to tens of billions of crowns mentioned in the galleys. This, I believe, would be substantially and is a much more fundamental problem than the fact that you're trying to push the e-booking sales bill here, which serves nothing but bullying small businessmen, entrepreneurs who are guilty mainly of wanting to make a decent living, they don't want anything from the state, and when you add more and more costs to them, you just get them to the office of work or to the throats of big companies or such predators, one of which sits in the government. So I'm making this proposal. I ask that it be re-registered that I suggest not for today, given the time, but on 9. 12. as the first point after the third reading of the state budget. I would appeal very much to this, and at the same time it opens up space for the Minister of the Environment to put together relevant information, especially what the reality is, what the financial implications might be, how the construction of the infrastructure will be delayed... [[I'm sorry, your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] And what measures they have negotiated in Brussels or what action they are taking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u101	Thank you. The next contribution is also yours, but with the priority right, President Kalousek is reporting, so I will give him the floor, and then you will perform with the next contribution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u102	Thank you for giving me the floor, and I apologize to František Laudát. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apologize for the rest of today's meeting. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the TOP 09 has its election council, and I, as the first Vice-President, have a duty to prepare a number of technical details. Let me make a request on this occasion. Whenever the Assembly of Social Democracy was elected, social democracy made a request to the day before, i.e. All Friday, no more negotiations, because we have a council. I have always been a little bit unsure that we can afford something like this given parliamentary work, but I have always respected that in the end, because, after all, the work of the political parties has a close link to the work of our Chamber of Deputies, so we have always complied with this. I wouldn't have had the courage to say, "We have a council," so I'm telling you all, we're not going to work today. I found the only courage in me. I have asked all fellow Members of Parliament's Clubs that, given that we have a meeting tomorrow that we should finish at the usual hour on Friday. If we look at the statistics, the usual hour is 14 hours. I have reason to believe that maybe I'm wrong, but I won't be here in the 14 hours that President Sklenák doesn't want to accept this. I have reason to believe that President Sklenák wants to say, "If we have a meeting on Saturday, we don't have a meeting on Friday." But if you, TOP 09, have a meeting on Saturday, it's after 2:00 p.m. I think that would be very unfair. I think it would be a very dangerous double standard. I beg you not to do such a thing, and I would like to assure you that if you did, we will remember it for a long time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u103	Thank you. We will continue to discuss proposals to amend the approved agenda. With another contribution, Mr František Laudát will speak and Mrs Helena Langšádlová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u104	Oh, my God. [[He's manipulating the microphone.]] Thank you for the floor. This sigh please no, I am significantly smaller than Vice-President Kalousek. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, allow me to propose that you include another point. I do not know from which date, however, for a very long time there is already a draft of the council, respectively the Karlovy Vary Region, which concerns the amendment of the road law. An example of the Karlovy Vary Region deals with or wants to deal with the Road Act in a section that affects highway coupons. Attempts to separate highway signs, or some sections of motorways and expressways, in a short time just motorways, and they were removed from charging, from the annual charge, were repeatedly here in the past. We've always rejected them. Where only a small part of the section was charged and did not follow the basic motorway and speed network, the state repeatedly removed these sections in the past. Until some time it was some sections - the Prague road circuit, it was the first finished sections of the South Bohemian D3 motorway, I think it was also in the Karlovy Vary Region - the speed R6, it was at Ostrava D1 and others, at Brno too. Despite protests, the region, the city or the region eventually decided, after some time, that it would no longer grant too many exceptions. Now he's returning to this practice. [[12.00 hours]] I have always protested these exceptions, I have always voted against and I have not recommended them. Some constellation, apparently by the pre-election populism of social democracy, happened that this proposal repeated, presented here, went to the second reading of the Economic Committee. According to the Karlovy Vary Region's presentation, we would probably be a European, if not a world rarity, system of highway signs. It would actually be technically 16 species. Fourteen counties plus one nationwide. And I think it's redundant. Why would I want - and again, it is probably not real today at 13 o'clock, so I'm changing it to be given on 10 December - the first point after written interpelations, that is, at 11 o'clock, and to deal with this bill proposal, and from that very long list of points that we are rolling in front of us in some cases, some points two years, so that there is at least something less. I think it is such a clear matter that we could, or the House as the supreme body, decide to support this matter. In that case, of course, it depends on the number of votes for and against. However, in any case, we would have gotten rid of at least one in the quotation marks of the lager we're dragging in front of us. A bit frightened by the report - the chaos seems to still have enough traffic at the Ministry of Transport, so the intention has been announced that electronic road signs will be introduced in three years. However, the Ministry of Transport has not yet managed to prepare the toll system. He couldn't handle the vehicle register. It's lying here, I don't know if three, four or how many different amendments to the road laws. The transition phase of non-application or non-adaptation of European driving licence standards is already beginning, so we are already at risk of infringement. But you, as a government coalition, have other priorities. So please place 10. 12 o'clock at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u105	Thank you. I'm registering your proposal, and please, next in line, Mrs. Helena Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u106	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister of the Environment, honourable Member, honourable Members. I wish you a nice noon, too, and I volunteered for the reason that I would like to ask you to place a point with the name of the amendment to the Trade Business Act, which bears the number of the House press 433. I would like to say that this House press has been on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies since spring of this year. Indeed, it will soon be three quarters of a year when this parliamentary proposal lies here without being put on the agenda. I suggest he be ranked at 8. 12:00 p.m. Originally, I had a press classification in the proposal today at 11 o'clock, but this time has passed. The reason I am trying to urge you to include this press is because this bill significantly improves the conditions for entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs, into ten employees. We all know that small entrepreneurs and medium-sized entrepreneurs are one of the strongest backgrounds of the entire business sector, because they are extremely, but extremely stable. And it needs to be realized that if your government is proposing an increase in state employees by a few tens of thousands from next year, it is precisely these entrepreneurs from their taxes that will have to pay because they are only entrepreneurs who really create jobs and are those who contribute to our budgets so that we can support what we see as important. I would also like to ask you that because, as we all know, the environment for entrepreneurs in our country is not perceived as positive and it follows from many, for example. World Bank statistics. But if you look at these analyses in more detail, you will find that the reason is not the question of taxes. The tax quota in the Czech Republic is about eight or nine, the lowest in the whole EU. But what makes the business environment in the Czech Republic unfavorable are issues of administrative burden. What can we offer our entrepreneurs? New records, new reports, more requests. This really is not entirely responsible for us, and especially for small entrepreneurs who do not have an administrative background themselves, this is a huge burden. That is why we come up with this draft law, which we are workingly calling a "single control point." I'm just a little bit of a tax guy. Yes, we are also to return to the question of tax burdens, particularly on labour taxation, labour taxation. It is extremely high in our country, and it also has a very negative impact on our competitiveness and has a very negative impact on the issue of job creation. But at this point, please focus on the issue of administrative burden, because that is what the Czech Republic is doing very negatively. Administrative burden for entrepreneurs. I would like to say that we, as the right hand, were already at a time when we were a government party, so the so-called law was proposed. a single collection point. I believe that we are to return to it, and it is totally unfair that our current government has abolished the single collection point. Because what it did for our businessmen. Well, simplifying. Simplifying so that they can have all the financial contributions in one place. In order to pay health insurance in one place, in one place they paid social security, but also tax contributions. And there's only one place to go to check-in. I think that too would be a great relief for our businessmen. Therefore, I beg you to include a single control point which significantly simplifies the issue of control in relation to small entrepreneurs into ten employees. So once again, I urge you to include this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u107	I thank you, Madame, for respecting the time limit and I will ask Mr Laudát. It's a criminal law. No, sorry, SFDI. Mrs Pecková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, allow me to intercede with you for the inclusion of a point concerning the amendment to the Act on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. You know from the machine guns that I pushed very hard to make a consensual amendment to the Act on Support or Accelerate the Construction of Transport Infrastructure. In May I asked for an analysis of how so-called. The money prachařův's novel works. It was quite obvious that it did not work at all, on the contrary, it strongly signed on to further slow down the progress of the construction of transport infrastructure, and it is one of the things that I would say are, hopefully, apolitical with the exception of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš, who was screaming exactly how we would quickly build motorways that previous governments were incompetent. [[12.10 hours]] The result is that last year was put into operation 7.3 km of expressway, continuation of R10, respectively. the road between Liberec and Zittau, and this year, while I know, was opened about 4 km of Karlovy Vary R6, which was often stopped by the Minister of Transport Vít Bárta in the infamous connotations. I don't know if it's gonna be a final number, but it's still gonna be added to the next series of worst results over the whole period. Here the first reading and quite without a problem passed the bill, he was ordered to the Economic Committee, thank you very much for the cooperation, about SFDI, for the cooperation of the Ministry of Transport, that he made us expert support together with Mr Seďa, and that even the Economic Committee recommended our amendment, which allows us to expand construction, actually financing transport infrastructure and airport, we are especially interested in regional airports. I recommend this amendment to study, because today, when we call for security improvements, it will be possible and the government will have a legitimate legal instrument, how quickly to help regional airports in particular to acquire and install security-enhancing technologies, because if Václav Havel Prague Airport is very well guarded, I think that regional airports are being treated with ever greater and greater security requirements, but you know that the clientele, the number of landings and take-offs or the number of check-ins at these airports is very fluctuating. I'd like to give an example of Pardubice Airport. That's why every crown the state helps will be good. That is, which is why I am calling for, instead of the useless things that are pompous about what e-booking sales is, that, because there I assume a great consensus across the political spectrum, we will discuss this law in preference. I know that it has been postponed, and given the developments in the House, I would ask that it be firmly placed on Tuesday, December 8th after the fixed points, and we will be looking for some agreement to make sure that Tuesday is completed by the second reading, so that third reading can take place as quickly as possible, so that - I would welcome it if this law had been in force since the New Year. Of course, at this point, the Department of Transport does not count on funds for technological equipment, but given the catastrophically poor prediction of what buildings can be started, finance, so I assume that there will be a number of billions left and there is a chance then within the decision of the Executive Committee of SFDI, respectively. if it exceeds 15 percent of the volume of such an economic committee, and there I hope that there will be consensus across the political spectrum and, in fact, we will help the airports so that our country will again be a little safer in the current uncertain, terror-saturated times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u109	Thank you, and please, to Mrs Pecková's microphone. Mr. Mr. Bezecný will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is really not entirely standard for an opposition Member to ask for a ruling point. This is a government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 169/1999 Coll., on the execution of prison sentences and amending certain related laws, as amended, and Act No. 293/1993 Coll., on the enforcement of custody, as amended, House Press 588. This is therefore the opening of the Criminal Code, which I need to use to make an amendment. I have spoken many times from this place about the so-called Lanzarot Convention, an international convention against child sexual abuse. But her ratification this year was not over for me. It needs to be filled now, and I promised to keep an eye on it. What's the rush? The second day after the international conference that I held in the Chamber of Deputies 14 days ago, a 41-year-old man was convicted of the long-term abuse, rape and production of pornographic photographs of a minor girl in Zlín. So, unfortunately, it's a day-to-day subject. Yet, because of a change in the criminal law in 2010, sexual abuse fell out of the so-called reporting obligation. All that's left is the abuse of a child to make pornography. It practically means that a citizen has no obligation to report credible suspicions of sexual abuse of a child. It must only be reported if the child has been abused to produce pornography, which is often a minority of cases and is an offense. For the sake of explanation, child pornography is also produced by giving a child instructions on how to take erotic poses without being physically abused. This is therefore Section 367 of the Penal Code and Section 368, where the amendment must be returned to sexual abuse, which is a crime, and the physical contact between the perpetrator and the child must always occur. After all, Article 18 of the Lanzarot Convention, sexual abuse, talks about it. I quote: Sexual abuse under this Article means participation in sexual activities with a child if the child has not yet reached the age prescribed by the law for sexual practices or if coercion, violence or threats have been used when the child has been abused from a position of trust, superiority or influence, or if the child has been abused in a particularly vulnerable situation. The abuse of a entrusted person in Section 368 does not automatically involve sexual abuse because it does not have to be a entrusted person, it may be a foreign child, or it cannot be shown that the abused child has suffered injury, such as in the case of child abuse. What can a sexologist encounter in outpatient practice? For example, a patient comes in that he abused his two nieces, and he doesn't want to be treated. But the family who found out sent him to a sexologist. A doctor under applicable legislation must not report this behavior to the police himself, because he cannot reliably determine whether the abuse will continue, even if it is a paedophile and does not want to be treated. In another case, the sexologist is told by his mother that her partner was using her teenage daughter, but he promised he wouldn't do it anymore. He refuses to go to a sexologist, the mother does not want to file a criminal complaint, and even in this case, according to applicable legislation, the doctor cannot do anything because he himself has never seen the perpetrator and cannot determine the risk of recurrence. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the doctor has the opportunity to report these acts legally, thus protecting the children from sexual violence and the perpetrators from themselves. So I would like to ask for a firm inclusion of this point today as the first, but since this is probably no longer possible, it will, alternatively, be to 10. 12 a.m. after already firmly placed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u111	I thank you, Madame, and please to the microphone of Mr. Bezecný. Mr Laudát will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u112	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. I would like to draw your attention to a very important point which is included in the meeting of this House, and ask for its pre-location. This is a point that is directly related to the security situation that has occurred in Europe today. This is therefore point 47, print 627, i.e. the Government's proposal for a law on the protection of national borders. The proposed law is based on the Union regulation introduced by the Schengen Borders Code. This Union legislation complements and specifies the proposed legislation in areas where national legislation leaves room. The new regulation thus removes existing duplications between national and Union border control regulations. The design is based on the existence of external borders of the Czech Republic only at international airports. The protection of land borders is thus regulated only in the event of the so-called temporary re-establishing of internal border protection - that is the important point. The proposal represents a qualitative change to the legislation in question, which consists in simplifying, modernising and adapting it now to the firm and long-term anchoring of the Czech Republic and neighbouring states in the Schengen area. The proposed law sets out the conditions for establishing a border crossing point at an international airport and the obligations of aircraft captains and airport operators. Furthermore, the law regulates the rules for the temporary re-establishing of internal border control, as well as infringements and administrative offences relating to border control. In European practice, the Institute has so far been used very rarely by the Schengen States, usually in the event of major political or mass sporting events. On average, the Schengen area is re-established about five times a year, with the intensity of the checks being carried out varying. Some of the Schengen countries, including the Czech Republic, have not yet implemented the reintegration. In 2015, some of the Schengen States, Germany, Austria, Slovenia, then acceded to re-establishing the protection of their internal borders due to the threat of public order and internal security in connection with mass immigration to Europe. According to the current regulation, the Government of the Czech Republic decides to reintroduce it in the form of a regulation. However, the form of legislation for the declaration of reintegration is not the most appropriate solution. Moreover, government regulations can prove to be too slow and rigid in practice. The variation of measures at internal borders can be very broad from the checks of identified passengers to the restoration of border control in almost preschengo form, i.e. with systematic control of all passengers and a ban on crossing the green border. If a security situation so requires, the government may, in a measure of a general nature, provide that internal borders can only be crossed at a certain point and at a certain time. In such a case, the measure of a general nature will also include a list of places where this particular section of the internal border can be crossed and, where appropriate, the period during which it can be done. Crossing internal borders outside designated locations will be possible to sanction as an offence. It is also proposed to introduce a procedure which will enable the re-integration to be carried out without delay. The provision covers situations where, given the urgency of a serious threat to public policy or internal security, there is no time for the adoption of measures of a general nature by the government. In such an exceptional case, the Ministry of the Interior may decide to re-establish an exceptional measure of a general nature. The declaration of re-establishing an extraordinary measure by the Ministry of the Interior is designed as a crisis solution for situations where, for time reasons, the standard procedure cannot be applied, this is to re-establish internal border protection by general government measures. Therefore, the validity is limited to five days. During this period, a general measure of a general nature may be adopted by the Government, which will allow the re-introduce to continue. However, if, during this period, the reasons for re-imposition are still no longer valid, the Ministry of the Interior will repeal the emergency measures of a general nature. I think it is clear from my explanation how urgent this matter is, and I therefore beg to put it before me, either today, 27 November, after the points already included, or 8 December, first after the points already included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u113	Thank you. Mr. Laudát's microphone, please. Mr. Plíšek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u114	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. For the last time today, I am making a proposal for a change to the programme, namely, about the matter which concerns, I will say briefly, mining minerals, in short, the upper law. I think, again, we could have some part of the work done. Proposals were made in the Economic Committee and a resolution was adopted, some amendments were approved. The same thing, according to my information, took place on the constitutional committee. I believe that this is such a crucial matter, but when this law comes back at second reading, this amendment to the House, it cannot be predicted at what date the effectiveness would take place. Although the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the requirements of the Budget Committee, which also dealt with this law, gave the opinion that it would be sufficient for the validity and effectiveness of this Act to be valid from 1 January 2017, however, one of the possible variants was from 1 July 2016. It is now in force in the original law from 1 January 2016. If the companies involved throughout the Republic were actually faced with the issue of completely changing their behaviour in relation to taxes or fees in the middle of the year, towards the end of the second quarter, this would cause huge complications. As I say, nowhere is it written that such a proposal will not be approved in the House. For this reason, I would like to be happy, and I thought that this quite consensual amendment will succeed, which increases the fee for extracted minerals to double, there will probably still be some disputes about where and how the money will be directed. In TOP 09 we believe that they should remain mainly in those regions affected by mining activities, especially the Ústecký Region and the Moravian-Silesian Region most. The Treasury has a different idea, and although it retains absolute amounts, it doesn't maintain the ratio even with a 100% increase. So I guess that would still be the issue of the matter. The coalition declared that it was not possible to change the parameters of the last-minute business, that we should have a predictable business environment. Therefore, there was also a step that the economic committee supported in order to make the decision in some way stable and predictable for a time period. But at that first stage, it really is crucial whether this will apply from 1 July 2016 or from 1 January 2017. [[12.30 hours]] I, at all, consider the government's behaviour, the whole matter of breaking the mining limits to be very unfortunate. I believe that we want to put citizens at risk of home security, and the most expensive and necessary thing everyone has is home. And the fact that some after a long, old balance and speculation, when we give them the only certainty, and that is the uncertainty whether their homes are racked with tentacles of mining machines, or not, is still not certain by the government at its last meeting that dealt with the issue. By dragging here again in some way the amendment to the Mining Act, which sets charges, we give uncertainty to the other side of the matter, i.e. companies that do business in the field. Given their economic importance, I believe that this is necessary. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] As the debate is clearly not going to take place today, I propose an alternative. 8. 12th place fixed at 18 o'clock, that's Tuesday. Wednesday, 9. 12. as another alternative also for the 18th hour, because I assume that at that time a very important matter, which is the state budget, will already be approved, and other laws that are your priority. Or the last alternative on Thursday 10. 12 o'clock. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u115	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr Plíšek, Mr Lobkowicz will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u116	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would like to propose the inclusion of paragraph 125, which is my proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., the Civil Procedure Code, as amended, is the House Press 599, on Wednesday 9. 12. on the first fixed point in the afternoon part of our negotiations, because, as was the custom in the past, Wednesday afternoon should be called. opposition windows, i.e. proposals from opposition Members. [[in programme 499]] Unfortunately, as it turns out, this is not usually the case. I would also like to justify this proposal, which, in my view, will make a significant contribution to speeding up judicial decisions. The proposed amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure repeals the Institute of Admins in civil proceedings, as the participation of a lay element in the decision-making of civil disputes at present appears to be inconvenient and uneconomical. Under the legislation in force, the chairmen now decide only labour matters, I mean in civil matters, in addition to the fact that they, of course, also work in criminal matters. According to an estimate by the Ministry of Justice, this agenda consists of only 5% of the cases discussed in the District Courts. A similar proposal was prepared by the Ministry of Justice in 2010. At that time, however, a general cancellation of the participation of the members of the Chambers of District Courts was proposed, i.e. also in the case of criminal proceedings. In connection with the upcoming amendment, the Ministry of Justice has sent the Regional Courts a request for a statement on this issue. The following conclusions and findings were drawn from the opinions sent by the various courts. In the long term, there is no greater interest in the performance of the duties of second-in-chiefs. A number of adjectives approach the performance of their duties laxly, do not arrive without an apology, and in a number of cases it is necessary to adjourn for this reason. Attendance of the magistrates in court proceedings is largely passive and formal, but on the other hand, they have the opportunity to overrule the President of the Senate in decision-making. As a rule, the alternates are not adequately educated and do not have the necessary legal knowledge. The judge must inform his non-lawyers before the hearing itself of the legal regulation and the caselaw relating to a specific case, which extends the procedure. The judge, on the other hand, as I mentioned, cannot give any decision, even if it is not a judgment in the same case as for example. the order for payment, the admission of the amendment of the application, the suspension of proceedings for the withdrawal of the application or for the payment of the legal fee - cannot therefore issue this decision alone, but must decide everything in the Chamber, which once again may mean major delays in the legal proceedings. Although a longer period of time has passed since the preparation of the proposal by the Ministry of Justice, these conclusions still apply. No special requirements for education or expertise are laid down by law on the alternates. According to Section 60 of the Law on Courts and Judges, self-righteousness, integrity and age are sufficient for at least 30 years. At the same time, the chair's duties are not properly assessed financially, because on one day of the meeting, one day of the meeting, the chair's flat-rate compensation for the performance of the duties of CZK 150 is due, which may discourage many potential high-quality candidates for the appointment. However, two seats may overrule the President of the Senate because they have the same procedural rights under the law. From the point of view of current social and legal developments, it can be concluded that the issues of labour disputes decided by the district courts in the senate are specific, but not sufficiently specific, so-called "necessary'. lay element. Labour disputes are as sensitive from a human point of view as e.g. disputes arising from family law, where the second-in-chief is not present. Like any area, the employment area is regulated by law and the Supreme Court has issued a rich case law. The discretion of the court is not wider than in other areas of the dispute. That is why I am asking you very much to include this item as a fixed first item in the afternoon meeting on Wednesday 9. 12. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm registering your proposal. And please, to Mr Lobkowicz's microphone, Mr Skalický will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u118	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, on the agenda of this meeting, we have item No. 23. It's the State Heritage Act. Until today, Law No. 20/1987 with many amendments, but this law from 1987 is already 28 years old when one calculates it. A lot has changed in that time, and that is why this law needs to be changed. This law took place at first reading already 9. 7. 2015. He's 437. 9. 7. the first reading took place, 3. 9. this law was on the committee and passed without major problems. I think it's a law that doesn't have big problems and which, if it gets on the show, will pass quite quickly. I don't think anyone has anything against him. This would reduce the crowd or the number of laws that we are pushing ahead of us. It's, as I was saying, a government bill, and it would need to be processed. This law is like point 23, but most points at second reading are already included on a certain date and this law is still without inclusion. This means that there is a great possibility that this law will not be discussed at all and we will not get to it at all. Also under point 168, a third reading is planned, and I don't think we're gonna get to that at all unless we do it quickly. [[12.40 hours]] That is why I propose that this law be put on the agenda 10. 12. as the first point after fixed points. I believe if he's there, he'll pass very quickly and it won't take much time. I'm not in the habit of talking, which is why I think I've already said everything I wanted to say. Let's just remember that monuments are things that we should care about, because that's our national family silver. If the memory is in bad shape, then everyone will, let's say, throw a rock. Only repaired monuments will everyone begin to appreciate and walk around and show it to even strangers who come. We know that each crown placed in the monument will bring more money than it has put into it. Therefore, I beg you to approve the inclusion of this point at 10. 12. Thank you and I look forward to your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Skalický's microphone, please. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u120	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the request for a Government Act on Biocidal Products and Active Substances and on the amendment of certain related laws, House Press 589. I would like to say that this press was discussed at first reading at the House. It has been discussed on the grounds of the Health Committee and is not included on the agenda of the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. at this meeting. However, the scheme for placing biocidal products and active substances on the market has so far been regulated under Act No. 120/2002 Coll., on the conditions for the placing on the market of biocidal products and active substances and amending certain related laws, as amended by Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 1998 concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 528/2012 Sb. of 22 May 2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products as amended, however, has been repealed by the abovementioned Directive, so that the existing law which still applies, that is to say, Act No. 120/2002 Coll., is not in line with the current regulation of the European Union in this area. The aim of this bill is to adapt the Biocide Regulation into the legal order of the Czech Republic and to establish, in particular, the status of state administration bodies, the competence of administrative authorities in the performance of state administration to fulfil the obligations arising for the Czech Republic as a Member State of the European Union from the Biocide Regulation and sanctions for infringements of the obligations laid down by the Biocide Regulation. In the event of non-adaptation to the legal order of the Czech Republic there is a threat of sanctions by the institutions of the European Union, and for the Czech Republic this would also mean a loss of state budget revenue for unselected fees for the authorisation to place biocidal products on the market. The implementation of this implementation of the Biocide Regulation into the legal order of the Czech Republic would also have a significant impact on entrepreneurs who could not legally market biocidal products by fault of the Czech Republic. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] I would just like to say that this matter concerns about a few dozen Czech producers, I mean companies s. r. o. and so on, and several hundred natural persons. For this reason, I see it as really necessary and important that this item be placed at the meeting of this 36th Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, namely on Tuesday 15 December as the first item in the second reading block. Given that this point was not conflicting, whether on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, that is, in plenary, or on the floor of the Health Committee, I do not see the least reason why it should not be discussed quickly, so that we can do what the European Union is asking us to do in this case and what will in some way also clarify the situation for Czech producers. This proposal, i.e. the inclusion of a new point in this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. the 36th meeting, gives reasons, inter alia, for the possibilities given to me by the Rules of Procedure pursuant to Section 54 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 6, and this is how I would like to complete the 36th meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please to the microphone of Mrs. Chalánková. Before I give you my word, I will ask all those who will present their proposals for changing the agenda to include, as far as possible, the points under which the House's press are included. Thank you. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u122	Thank you for the floor, too. Madam President, this is a proposal called the Information of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the current situation and legislative intentions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the field of social and legal protection of children. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned about developments in the field of social protection of children. This is information that I receive from direct actors and experts, officials, institutions of social-law protection of children, long-term foster parents, child psychologists, children's doctors, associations and professional societies. I was concerned about the fact that officials of child welfare authorities, some of whom are willing to come out of anonymity, because they already have enough bullying on the part of senior workers, are forced to proceed differently than the diction of the laws in force. They do, and I am very concerned that it often does not make decisions, because of the pressure I have mentioned, in favour of children. It exists here at The Chamber of Deputies also has a working group for alternative family care, at the same time there is a working group for alternative family care in the Czech Moravian Psychological Society. These working groups are prepared and willing to present their outputs and conclusions to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u123	Madam, I'm sorry. I'll set your time for you, of course, but I'll ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep their voice down, because the noise level is rising again. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u124	Thank you for the floor. When we enter into the documentation that comes from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, for example, it concerns the methodology of processing, the plan of transformation of residential facilities in the area of care for vulnerable children, it is quite extensive material, or when it is possible to visit various conferences that are funded under projects from the European Social Fund, we will learn various interesting information there, for example, that currently, according to current data, more than 51 percent of children in homes return to their own family and 22 percent find care in the form of adoption. Nearly two thirds of the children who return to the family have been in a children's home for less than two months. Stays in excess of six months are rather an exception. These are about 20 percent of children. For adoption with the consent of parents, the period of stay in a children's home for children under three years of age is 80.4 percent of children less than six months. A group of approximately 15 percent of children are required to pay particular attention. These children usually require special medical and nursing care. Why am I talking about this? If I have visited, for example, recently a conference that was funded under the Children's Rights Project, I have been familiar with various PR activities that have presented misleading information and misleading statistics, against which it is quite difficult to defend itself from the field, because they are richly funded by the European Social Fund. [[12.50 hours]] For example, in this forum it was said: For example, it is necessary to finance spots on Czech television in the style of "Coca-Cola, this is it." In the care of young children, it seems very inappropriate to me. Or it was said, for example, that we are concerned, i.e. the workers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that children are placed, for example, in a treatment facility with the consent of parents. I really can't imagine how they'd want to deal with this. We really need to know the current information and real intentions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in this area, as well as that other legislative intentions and proposals are for the benefit of the child's real good. As I have already said, there are working groups that have involved a broad plenary, a broad forum for professional societies. And we have these outputs and we make them available to the Ministry. I'm sure the D.O.D. will use it. I would like to draw attention to one interesting fact, and this may also be interesting for us as legislation, because in the Health Services Act, care in special children's facilities is relatively legally free, so without any further legislative regulation, these devices themselves are transformed to the best possible benefit of the needs of families and children. This general regulation, together with the factor of dominant funding from the budget of the founder paradoxically, means that the process of transforming children's homes for children under three years of age does not have to run into legislation on activities or collisions of different systems and the key to the successful process is the understanding and will of the founder to limit the existing operation and the creation of a service responding to the needs of children and families. [[unintelligible]] You can see that sometimes an excess of laws may not be of benefit and that the goodwill of all actors who can reach an agreement is sufficient, and that development is going in the right direction. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for the inclusion of this point, which I called at the beginning of my speech, at 8. 12. as the third fixed item in the hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u125	Thank you, Madame. And now, please, next in line, and this is Mr Kalousek, who I do not see here, so he falls to the end of the order and I will ask for Mr Heger's microphone. Mr Horáček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u126	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a proposal to amend the agenda of the current meeting and request a report from the Minister of Health on the current state and preparations of the rules for health insurance for foreigners in the Czech Republic. I would like it if this report could be included already after the fixed points of the 8th day. 12. 2015 when the Act on addictive substances from the Ministry of Health workshop is on the agenda, so the Minister will be present. The reasons for this request are as follows. As is well known and discussed for a long time, nervousness in this state is greatly increasing around the risk of migrants. On the other hand, it is also known that our country does not have a solution to the issue of foreigners who are legally here. And then how can we deal with illegal immigrants if we can't solve this, even if it's complicated? I would like to demonstrate this complexity in a brief historical review. [[Big noise in the hall.]] As early as 2011, the preparation of new rules for foreign insurance was discussed, as there are a number of indications that their insurance is not such as to ensure to a reasonable extent good health care. This brings us into conflict with fundamental human rights issues. In 2013, the Parliamentary Institute has spoken several times about insurance of foreigners in the Czech Republic. In the same year in May 2013, a special law on foreign insurance was introduced by the then Chairman of the Boris šťastný Health Committee. This law was discussed in the government and for some of the problems that consisted in giving priority to some providers and not providing enough provision for a network of providers to engage foreigners, this proposal was rejected by the then government, with the need to prepare its new version. A similar law appeared during this parliamentary term and was submitted by a colleague from social democracy Jaroslav Krákora and co-signed by other his colleagues. In general, the Government agreed on it and confirmed the need for a new legislative setting of commercial health insurance for persons residing in the Czech Republic. However, for several reasons, the opinion on the material at issue was, in the end, contradicted again and those reasons were very similar to those of that year 2013. On 16 October 2014, the Health Committee also addressed the whole issue and requested the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček to present a report on how this issue will be addressed at the next committee meeting. The Ministry has actually carried out an analysis of the health insurance of foreigners, which was dealt with by the government, and referred to September this year when the new law is to be submitted. It was presented as part of the Foreigner Act, but once again raises a very severe criticism on the scene of supporters of foreigners and human rights -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u127	Ambassador, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u128	Therefore, I suggest that the Minister explain on a special point in Parliament's sitting how this will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u129	According to your proposal, it's eight. 12. on fixed points. Isn't that right? Yes. Thank you. Next in line, please, and that is Mr Horáček. Mrs Nováková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, allow me to propose the inclusion of a new point called the Safe Movement Act on Skiing, Snowboarding and Cycling. Maybe the guys who were here in the last term remember that this isn't entirely new. This law even passed the first round. A lot of colleagues have spoken about this. As far as the bike is concerned, I consulted my colleague Huml. As for wearing helmets, I consulted my colleague, Ploc, who knows exactly how the helmet is needed. So I think that this law is missing here and that it is absolutely necessary, and so allow me to briefly give the explanatory statement to this law. [[13.00 hours]] The bill addresses a situation which is currently not fully regulated by any legislation in the Czech Republic. These are rules for the behaviour of skiers, snowboarders and other persons on ski tracks. The law also deals with the behaviour of cyclists on cycling tracks outside the road. I'm sure you'll tell me for the truth that it's such a trend at the moment and we meet in many places, in the woods, on slopes with cyclists as well. These rules need to be clearly established and thus contribute to greater safety in the mountains. In the absence of a legal standard, problems arise also in dealing with civil and criminal disputes in connection with harm to the health and compensation of the damage caused by the operation of such sports. I would like to remind you that, of course, in the past period, doctors, such as colleague Krákora, colleague Štětina and others, have also spoken about this. Currently, in the Czech Republic, the only available set of rules established by the FIS International Ski Federation is used to define the behaviour of skiers on slopes. These are rules for the behaviour of skiers and snowboarders on the slopes, but they do not address the behaviour of skiers and other persons on other ski tracks and cyclists while riding a bike outside the road. These rules, although not a generally binding regulation, also use the Czech courts in their decisions because of the lack of other legislation. By imposing the obligation to wear bicycle helmets when riding a bicycle outside the road for persons under 18 years of age, the legislature unites this obligation with the obligation laid down in Section 58 of Law No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic, as amended, in which this obligation is laid down for persons under 18 years of age when travelling on roads. Of course, this does not solve the case of skiing, in the woods and the like. It follows from the above that the obligation to wear a protective helmet does not apply by law, for example, to mountain cycling, which is carried out in most cases on forest trails, pavements, etc. For this reason, this obligation is introduced by the law. Several Member States of the European Union have already agreed to the introduction of the duty of wearing a protective helmet for skiers outside cross-country skiing and snowboarders, and discussions on the introduction of this obligation are conducted in other countries such as. France. Those who go to the mountains in Austria must know that there is an obligation to wear the helmet of children under 14 years of age. There has been an extreme increase in skiers on the slopes over the past ten years, an increase in the number of ski-beginners, let's think of foreign skiers coming from the plains, and you know what it looks like on the slopes. The number of injuries has increased significantly over the last few years. The doctors may confirm the number of skiers who have head injuries or severe fractures, but I'm mainly talking about the head injuries, because then the treatment of one person, only the basic, comes to about 35,000 calculated. However -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u131	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u132	Okay, thank you. When the law is. So I would also like to clarify: I recommend that this law be the ninth point behind written interpelations, because I have found that there are eight points, as is the ninth point on Thursday behind written interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u133	I need an exact date. Which Thursday do you mean?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u134	On 10. 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u135	Very good, thank you. Before I invite Mrs Nováková, allow me to load three apologies, Mrs Šánová, who apologizes from 13:00 to the end of today's day for work reasons. Mr Gabal apologizes from 12:45 to 14:00 today for reasons of work. Mrs Maxová, from 14 a.m. to the end of the day for family reasons. And now, I beg you, Mrs Nováková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u136	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government - not here, ladies and gentlemen, I volunteered because I would like him to have a chance to discuss press No. 541, and here it is on the agenda, Madam President, 111. This is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which actually introduces the need for each proposed legislative measure to be subject to a view as to the impact on the family. Why do I dare ask that this press, this proposal, be put before others who are in order before, such as a draft amendment to the Act on Registered Partnerships or an amendment to specific health services? But it certainly applies to school law and a number of other laws. For we should first say before discussing the other matters mentioned in these bills, so we should say to ourselves how the family in our Chamber of Deputies is doing at all. As we perceive the family in the Chamber of Deputies. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we were to discuss the law to promote sport, and we were also to pursue the law to promote nature conservation. Since the 1970s we can really protect nature, virtually. At least we are working hard to do this, and we are leading our children very intensively to look at the world with such ecological eyes around them. However, we are completely limping in the fact that we would also lead our children to perceive the ecosystem of society. This society, a natural society, is also a kind of ecosystem where balance and harmony between the individual components are necessary. So you need to see the basic space in which you are born, in which you acquire basic knowledge and attitudes, and that is family. In that ecosystem of society, the family is really the only natural element, and in this sense it completely precedes all actually artificial constructs, such as institutions, including the state. We should be aware that in the history of Western civilization, the family has just begun to separate some professions, etc. separately, so that the family or family does not have to provide their own needs. And that's how the economic system was created, etc. So family is really an essential element. We are this proposal - it is 16 Members, it is also Mr Martin Plíšek, Mrs Chalánková, Member Lobkowicz, Member Adamová, Putnová, Member Horáček, Member Bezecný, Member Pecková, Member Schwarzenberg, Pavera, Member Kovářová, Langšádlová, Member Heger, Farský and Member Kučera - we therefore believe that it should be enshrined in the Rules of Procedure, namely in Part 12, where there is talk of drafting of laws, it is Section 86, and there is paragraph 86 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 It should be that for all legislative proposals submitted, the impact on family and parenthood should be assessed. Almost immediately after we submitted this amendment, the government rejected it. However, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that if we submit this amendment, we will come to the same conclusion as the government. I believe that the Government's position does not represent us at this time, or at least I hope so, does not represent us individuals' views. Respectfully, few of us will probably say that he doesn't care what impact the legislative measures have on something that only ensures the further existence of our society, and that is family. [[Time warning]] Thank you. So I ask that this point, which is now under number 111, be classified as a fixed point, and this is the second point on Wednesday 9. 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u137	Yes, I have it right here. Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Kučera's microphone, Mr Pavera will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u138	Hello, thank you for your word. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we had an ambition today to discuss one, if not the most important, law concerning the conservation of nature and landscape. I have applied to the proposal for a change in the programme, with the fact that I wanted this item to be firmly included in today's negotiations, so that, in the event that there will be a longer discussion of the so much demonised Balkan novelty from the workshop of the Minister of Finance, which is called electronic sales records, so that it does not happen that this important law will fall out of the agenda of today's negotiations. I had the ambition to propose it for one hour as a fixed point, unfortunately, given that there are a number of other topics to change the program, this will not happen. Personally, I think that the proposal is so fundamental, a proposal for conservation of nature and landscape, i.e. Amendment to Law No 114, House Press 501, paragraph 68, that it deserves a firm inclusion in the Chamber of Deputies hearing. This point was interrupted due to time, was interrupted 7. 10th at first reading, that's more than a month. If I count well, that's a month and a half, if not more. I'm a little surprised that Minister Brabec wasn't trying to get the first reading done earlier. Of course, there's no time pressure, I can't argue with that, but I think it would be appropriate to discuss this before almost two months after the first reading has been interrupted. So, at the end of my speech, I'm going to come up with some suggestions for a firm inclusion of this point. I'm just gonna give him a brief reason. This amendment will amend legislative provisions from the early 1990s following experience from their application and the need to align the law with international regulations. There will be a declaration of long-term objectives for the protection of national parks and the mission of national parks, including e.g. sustainable development or the use of nature-friendly tourism, which, of course, almost everyone here wants. There will also be the introduction of national parks, which have so far been declared by a government regulation and a separate law. The basic protection conditions will be revised and simplified, broken down according to validity throughout the national park and outside the built-up and stopable territory of the municipalities. There will be a new concept of zoning national parks. Zones will be divided according to the objectives of protection and care, so in the modern trend, not in the present, in connection with the current degree of change in the ecosystem of human activity. But there will also be an impact on the state budget, which Minister Babiš could of course appreciate very much. In addition to the fact that there will obviously be some increase in the administrative burden, there will also be a reduction in the administrative burden in connection with the negotiation and approval of settlements without the need for written circulation of all property owners included in the first and second zones. Minister Babiš will also appreciate saving the costs of sending out written announcements. An average of 2,000 announcements sent a year is a savings of CZK 100,000 a year. The slightly increased costs will, of course, be on the administration of several visitor orders in those units, but there is an increase very slight. The reduction of administrative burden will result in the administration of the national park and the Ministry of the Environment in the context of non-application of exemptions. It's a reduction in tens of thousands of crowns per year. Unfortunately, the increased costs of the operational tactical study and the measures resulting from it, but this increase is not significant. Further reduction of administrative burden in connection with the reduction of protective conditions in the national park protection zone. There is a reduction of more than 300,000 crowns per year. Reduction of administrative burden in connection with the simplification of negotiations with public authorities. Furthermore, and this will, of course, be of interest to my colleagues from the agricultural committee, the body of the state hunting authority - will improve the availability of the office for issuing binding opinions under the Hunting Act, the unification of competences in the same office. Since I originally had the ambition to propose this point firmly to one hour today, so I would like to, and that is obviously no longer possible, so I would like to propose to place it firmly on Tuesday 8. 12 to 17 o'clock. That means printing 501, item 68. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u139	Yes, thank you, I'm registering your proposal. Now, please, to Mr Pavera's microphone, Mr Korte will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u140	Nice and pleasant afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, dear colleagues. I must say, Madam President, that I am glad that you are in the chair right now, because it is so much more pleasant when a woman is behind my back than someone else. I would like to propose to include one point that has already been proposed here today, but because it has been proposed and I also wanted to propose it as the first point of today's negotiations, but I doubt that today it would be, it is point 103, it is the proposal of Members Miroslav Kalousek and František Laudát to issue a law repealing Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on a significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse. It's a 478 print. I recommend we put him on 9. 12th as the first point, because it's nine. 12. is proposed in the third reading of the amendment to the Act on Major Market Power, so I think it would be good to pre-negotiate this law before this third reading, so we would no longer have to discuss and approve this third reading at all. Let me tell you a few things why this law is proposed and why I support it. This law has been effective since 1. 2. 2010. The ambition was to regulate the relations between suppliers and consumers of agricultural and food products, respectively. between producers and traders. In particular, the aim of the law was to protect small and medium-sized producers from pressure from large chain trades. The law is based on the misconception that the market dominance rate is determined by the size of the customer. Each business relationship is to a large extent an individual matter and therefore only an analysis of each relationship can reveal possible asymmetry of negotiating positions. In doing so, any Contracting Party may be the originator of asymmetry, not only the customer. In the view of the majority of market participants, the effects of the present form of the Act on significant market power are negative. The current form of this law and the attempt to amend it do not solve the fundamental problems that this legislation brings. That is why the material promoters propose the repeal of the law. It is not appropriate for any legal standard in this area to be discriminatory, i.e. only one party to the supplier-customer relationship was affected. Moreover, the law is unfoundedly selective. There are undoubtedly similar relationships in sectors other than the retail economy. [[13.20 hours]] This is also apparent from the analysis of the appropriateness of the use of the Institute of Market Power of 10 August 2013, which was prepared by CRAS Economics s.r.o. for the Office for the Protection of Competition. On the retail market, all transactions are executed on the basis of bilateral negotiations between the supplier and the trader, where individual trading conditions are negotiated, including prices, discounts, payment terms, bonuses and the like. No trader on the Czech market is in a position to unilaterally affect market conditions. The Act on Market Power seeks to protect suppliers against the negotiating power of trade chains. They no longer address possible dominance on the supplier's side. Therefore, it is certainly not an instrument to protect competition against its significant distortions. Some suppliers in our market have a relatively significant position of close dominance. These are, for example, certain types of soft drinks, beers, etc. On the contrary, it is desirable for the negotiating power of the trader to act as a dampening possible negative impact of the dominant position in these cases towards consumers. Consumer protection is the primary aspect in the protection of competition. Here I wanted to commend the Minister of Agriculture, but unfortunately it is not here that the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Agricultural and Food Inspection are trying to control as much food as possible to be of the best quality as possible. As far as other matters are concerned, I would simply say that the proposed changes to the law have no impact on the state budget, the budget of the regions, the municipalities and the draft law are in line with the European Union rules, the case law of the judicial authorities of the European Union and the general legal principles of European Union law. Because I have exhausted my time, and did Madam President write down? [[Yes.]] Well, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u141	I, too, thank you, and please take the next step, and that is Mr Korte. Mr Koubek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u142	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a solid inclusion of the point we have in this meeting, that is paragraph 173, namely the proposal amending Law No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended. It's an MP's law. It was signed by MEPs: Helena Langšádlová, Zdeněk Soukup, Roman Procházka, Josef Novotný, Jitka Chalánková, František Vácha, Václav Horáček, Herbert Pavera, Rom Kostřica, Jiří Koubek and myself. It is, please, the House press number 157. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you can hear well: 157, while we are still discussing, or rather, we are on a press conference with the number 600 and above! It has already been filed on 1 April 2014 and since then it has remained in the bowels of the Chamber of Deputies. We have passed this law on the initiative of the Union of Cities, which is quite rightly outraged, that for a year and a half we have not been able to deal with it here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I do not know why we appellants should bear this indignation on our shoulders. I will try to justify the nature of this proposal and the reason why I will propose that firm inclusion. This amendment responds to numerous complaints from citizens, especially border cities, but also local representatives of large cities, such as the indisputably capital city of Prague, Hradec Králové, Karlovy Vary, Přerov, Jihlava, complaints about legislative vacuum, i.e. on the issue of the dissemination of advertising in establishments in public places only in a foreign language, which is often recorded in a font that resembles inverted furniture. These are mostly different posters, leaflets, menus and so on. The proposal does not in any way aim to prohibit this way of spreading advertising at all, but merely provides for legal conditions for the dissemination of foreign-language advertising, i.e. the obligation to present the text in parallel in the official language of the Czech Republic and thus eliminate discrimination against citizens of the Czech Republic who are exposed to the fact that they happen to be unable to read in reverse furniture. Today's legislative state does not allow this negative situation to be dealt with by issuing a generally binding decree, which means that it does not allow the use of legislative instruments at local level. For this reason, we are submitting this proposal for a law on advertising regulation, which newly addresses the authorisation for the issue of a generally binding municipality regulation, whereby the municipality could regulate the issue of the dissemination of foreign-language advertising on its territory in premises and in publicly accessible places on its own, on the basis of knowledge of local conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose this point, i.e. 173, the House press number 157, to include the third reading block as a fixed point on Wednesday 9. 12. 2015. Please stress 2015 to make it clear that it won't be necessary for 2016 if it's been here for a year and a half, after the fixed points of this block. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u143	Ambassador, if I may draw your attention to the fact that you wanted to assign paragraph 173, which is the third reading of this law, but there has not yet been a second reading of that law. [[Fun in the hall. Messenger. - Really?]] Indeed! And otherwise it's point 28, the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u144	Thank you very much. In that case, I suggest we put the second reading on Tuesday the eighth after the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u145	Okay, so 8. 12. on fixed points. And it's bod 28.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u146	Yes, it's point 28. Thank you so much for pointing out my mistake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u147	Now, please, to Mr Koubek's microphone and prepare Mrs Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u148	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, despite an advanced hour, and I am probably not the first person to ask you today for a solid inclusion of a specific point, allow me to ask you for a solid inclusion of two prints, namely the House Press 124, which we have in the programme as item 28, and the very associated press 164, which we have in the draft programme as item 37, on a fixed day, on Wednesday 9. 12. I originally planned the 10th or 10.30th, but then I realized, and I apologize to you, Madam President, you have it on paper that I would have put it up to 18.15 on the ground that we are to discuss the state budget that day, and I am, of course, aware of the priorities that the Czech Republic must have. Let me justify this inclusion and remind you what is going on in these thousands. [[13.30 hours]] As I said before, I am talking about the House press number 124 and 164. Both relate to laws affecting the capital city of Prague. The reason is quite obvious. Prague, under the rule of the ANO movement, reached relatively permanent chaos a year after its provision. Anyone who has the opportunity to watch the last meeting of the D.A. was successful yesterday at the third attempt of the October meeting of the D.A., although we already have the end of November. No one knows how long this chaos can last. It is possible that, regardless of Prague and Prague itself, the current dysfunctional coalition will continue to spasm, God forbid until the end of the term. Or maybe it could be an early election if the council meeting didn't meet for six months. That would be unique, but with YES everything is possible, as we have seen in the past few days. For this reason, it is extremely necessary to be clear on fundamental matters. According to which law will govern the elections to the Prague City Representation and how many electoral districts Prague will have. And these two fundamental questions are currently being addressed by two House prints 124 and 164. The first one, the House press 124, is the parliamentary bill tabled by Mr František Adámek, Mr František Stupčuk, i.e. Štěpán Stupčuk - I apologize to my colleague. Mr Jiří Koskuba, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, Member Jeroným Tejc, Member Jiří Dolejš, Member Marta Semelová, Member Milan Šarapatka, Member Jiří Holeček, Minister Daniel Herman, then Mr Michal Hašek. At that time, Mr Podivínský, Madam President, also you and Mr Matěj Fichtner. This is therefore a rather broad support across the spectrum, however, as we could see when this House press was discussed here in plenary, so it was reliant on the committee, where it did not receive such clear support. For example, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has been discussed twice. It was the first time in September 2014, when the committee suspended the hearing and discussed the second time on 14 January 2015, so we will soon celebrate our first anniversary. And the Public Administration Committee has recommended rejecting this law. This means that I think it would be very good for us to discuss this law as soon as possible, because if this law is here for a year and a half and we have only two years by the end of this parliamentary term, then it may also happen that, at the speed at which the House is discussing the laws, which I personally am not very pleased about, it could also happen that this House press will not be able to come to this at all. So I'd really like us to put it first. The second of the press that I would like to include is the Parliamentary Press 164. It's an amendment to Act No. 491/2001 Coll., on elections to the municipal council and on the amendment of certain laws. Its aim is to exclude the possibility of creating electoral districts in elections to the Prague City of Representation. This amendment was submitted here in 2014. The original translator for the Prague City Council, and here I would appeal very much, was Mayor Tomáš Hudeček and after last year's elections Mrs. Adriana Krnáčová, the mayor of this press, identified herself. I would recommend that we still have the possibility of having the existing leadership of the capital city of Prague, which is identified with this proposal, so that this law can also be discussed and that we do not delay it unnecessarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u149	Thank you. Let me just make it clear that these are points 26 and 33. You're making it a little difficult for us because it's hard to find. Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u150	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government - or ministers of some who are present here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for your attention and for the inclusion or assignment of one item from our programme, which we have approved. This is point number 30, and I announced this request yesterday during the interpellation that I submitted to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Michaela Marksová-Tominová, because yesterday, just during the interpellation, we addressed the question of the law that was submitted to us by the Senate. It is an amendment to the law on material distress, which you have under the House press 156, and which therefore deals with Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress, as amended. I think that, given that this is a matter relating to the public service, i.e. the long-term unemployed, it should also matter to you that we should try to deal with this phenomenon somehow. Of course, at present unemployment is relatively - or record low. We can cheer on this, but as we have been told by the officials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on one of the subcommittees who is engaged in employment and who is led by my dear colleague, Mr Zdeněk Soukup, so long-term unemployment concerns about 200 000 people. These are people who do not have a relative, one might say, or an interest in getting back into the labour market. It is a phenomenon that we should certainly not overlook. Therefore, I propose to put this law before and specifically to include it in 8. 12. 2015, after the fixed points. Given that this is a Senate proposal and it will certainly be good for some senators to come to it as well as the petitioners and attend our meeting, so let us give them this opportunity, so I did not want to include it on today's day. So let me remind you a little bit more, because he's been in the House for quite a long time. And as many of my previous speakers have said about other proposals, it is a bit of a disgrace to us that we are unable to discuss these proposals in a faster time. It is therefore the reopening of the public service, which was actually due to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic of 27. 11. 2012 rather dampened. Its use is now very sporadic and it is an instrument that has helped solve a number of problems and has been used both by municipalities and even by non-profit organisations in municipalities. They used the public services precisely to motivate people who are long-term dependent on State aid, on social benefits, to return to the labour market at least partially, to restore or at least retain part of their work habits, to go to work and to be useful. I think that this is very important to them, too, and that our support is also important for this group of people. So I will no longer delay, although, of course, I can tell you what the journey of this press in the House was, because I am his rapporteur and I have it very well mapped out. Indeed, it has been almost a year since we devoted ourselves to him at first reading, so this amendment has been waiting for discussion for a year. But as I was told yesterday by the Minister, the government coalition is quite in agreement on this, and it was also known in the meeting of the Social Committee, which, right after going through the first reading, discussed the law twice. In fact, several Members have also tabled amendments. About six of them are currently being read, and I think it would be necessary to focus on them as well. These are things that are meaningful, we agreed on them across the political spectrum. So I believe that even this proposal of mine will receive support from you today. So, in order not to hold back and get to the vote, I thank you for your attention and look forward to next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u151	Thank you, Madame, for respecting the time limit. That was the last application for an amendment to an approved programme. Since we're about to have a long vote, I suppose... With priority rights, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u152	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought we agreed. As I just learned, we didn't agree. In this situation, I would recommend that the House be interrupted from your title for ten minutes and meet with the political club leaders and try to agree on further action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u153	Yes. I'll do it then. I wanted to do it before you came to the microphone, because I can see that the deal wasn't. I therefore adjourn the negotiations to 13.50 and I ask the President of the MPs to come up to me so that we can agree on a further procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u154	It's 1:50 a.m., we'll continue our negotiations. With priority rights, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u155	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. We've come to some kind of agreement - no deal. I just want to say that today is the end of the day when one of the political parties urges him to have the day and days to come, or to prepare it, so that he does not comply with the fact that it will end prematurely. Next, it's backed up by some media play. So please make it clear - TOP 09 takes two hours' break. And for the next, every hour we save private entrepreneurs, people whose only fault is taking care of themselves, I'm telling you, it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-27-ps2013-036-04-000-000.u156	Thank you. Since there were other breaks during the meeting of club presidents, namely the KSČM and Dawn parties, the club presidents agreed that we were interrupting today's meeting by 8. 12:00 p.m. Thank you and have a nice weekend.
