ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning and I begin the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. This meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. On 4 December 2015, our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 56 Members and the invitation, were distributed to you through the Members' Clubs. [[At a press conference before the beginning of the meeting, the ANO MP presented himself in T-shirts with passwords such as Kalousku do not delay and Let us work. Some of them then came to the meeting room in this outfit.]] I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of František Laudát and a Member of Marta Semelová. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I can't see, in which case I'll vote on these verifiers. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 1, 123 Members and Members registered, for proposal 118, against no one. I note that we have verified the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies designated Mr František Laudát and Member Marta Semelová. I agree that by the beginning of the meeting they asked to apologize for their absence to the negotiations by the following Members: Adam Vojtěch for health reasons, Bartošek Jan from 14 hours for working reasons, Zdeněk Bezecný from 12 to 15 for work reasons, Jana Černochová for work reasons, Pavel Čihák for family reasons, Jana Fischerová for family reasons, Vlastimil Gabrhel for work reasons, Stanislav Grospič for work reasons, Václav Horáček for work reasons, Jiří Junek for work reasons, David Kádner for reasons of foreign travel, Martin Komárek from 14 hours for personal reasons, Jiří Koskuba - foreign trip, Leo Luzar from 14 hours for health reasons, Josef Vondrášek from 14.45 for work reasons, Miroslava Němcová without giving reason, Igor Nykl - health reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg - personal reasons, Zbyněk Stanjura within 13 hours without stating, for reasons, Karel Tureček for work reasons, for Válková, Helena Něková. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka apologizes from the members of the government today because of foreign travel, Richard Brabec - foreign trip... I'm gonna ask your colleagues and colleagues to keep us quiet so we don't shout at each other. Daniel Herman from 14.30 for work reasons, Michaela Marksová due to foreign travel, Svatopluk Němeček for work reasons, Robert Pelikán for work reasons, Dan Ťok for personal reasons, Kateřina Valachová for work reasons, Lubomír Zaorálek for health reasons. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 37th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. First of all, the plaintiff, chairman of the club YES, Mr Faltýnek, will appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u2	Dear colleagues, colleagues. We are gathered today for the third reading of the e-booking of sales law. This is the fourth meeting at which this law is included in the third reading. I presume that there will perhaps be fundamental political positions on this bill today. Just to remind you, I'm gonna do a short time recap. The law was submitted to the House on 4 June this year. The discussion at first reading took seven hours of pure time. At second reading, eight hours of pure time. A summary of the amendments was distributed to Members 8. 10. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee 16. 10. This law was already included in the 33rd, 35rd, and 36rd meetings at the third reading. With this short time recap, I just wanted to point out that I believe that we all had relatively sufficient time to prepare for the third reading. You all know that all the world's economies have been constantly struggling and struggling with tax evasion and cash payment records. That is why most countries in Europe already have sales registration systems in place today, and other countries that do not have it so far are intensively preparing them. The record of sales primarily equalizes the market business environment, but also ensures the collection of fixed taxes also for companies that try to pay taxes to escape. By introducing the record of sales, the state will thus receive additional billions of crowns in the state budget. These billions can then be used by me. to support education, health care, improve safety and the standard of living of our citizens and to pay off the state debt. Those who reject, in our view, the introduction of electronic sales records continue to support robbing the state. I mean, stealing from all the honest-to-be businesses and businessmen, cities, municipalities, and, in fact, all the citizens of our country. I would like to conclude by asking all Members of the Chamber of Deputies for a constructive, factual and impersonal discussion on this subject. I'm begging you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u3	The President Kalousek is now claiming priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I agree with my previous speaker, President Faltýnek, in one - that there was indeed a fundamental political position and that we have been discussing this for many tens of hours, not only in this House, but also at public, professional discussions and seminars. In this debate, it has clearly proved that none of the other things President Faltýnek has said here are true. If we look at Eurostat's data, not the Croatian propaganda of Minister Lalovac or his colleague Babiš, but look at Eurostat's European statistics, then we will find that thanks to this Balkan novelty Croatia has not chosen one extra kuna. [[9.10 hours]] But we're going to find out that 37,000 trades have ended, and if 12,000 s.r.o., as opposed to that. was created, then it was 25,000 destroyed trades, without contributing to one single kuna, or if you want the euro, or if you want the crown, to the Croatian state budget. After all, he also admitted it by Minister Babiš, invited by Minister Lalovac, who - it is on the record - said: This instrument is not for better tax collection, this instrument is because we now know everything about these entrepreneurs. That's a quote from the Minister of Croatia. That's not what I'm saying. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] It was made clear beyond all doubt that the costs - whether investment or the annual operating costs, which the Ministry of Finance indicates - were significantly underestimated for the establishment of this Balkan supernova and that the fact would cost the taxpayer infinitely more, both operationally and investmently, and then the material at your disposal does not count on the need to build a backup centre, where the Ministry of Finance already has a building permit and where the project costs range between CZK 5 billion and CZK 6 billion. This information is completely missing from the background we have, but is not missing from the internal study of the Ministry of Finance by BDO, which the Ministry of Finance conceals from the public, because there is much more and much more accurate information than the Ministry of Finance has provided to the Chamber of Deputies. This too has been clearly demonstrated in those discussions. It is also clear above the sun that this multibillion-dollar tunnel for taxpayers is not meant by Minister Babiš -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u5	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I'm going to request a silence in the room. If you have something important to deal with, go to the lobby. I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u6	It is also clear above the sun that this multibillion-dollar tunnel for taxpayers is not intended by Minister Babiš to submit a transparent public contract and that he is ready to enter it out of the open hand for his people, his friends, in order, in addition to the profits he will have from these direct contracts, to have an infinite and forever accessible overview of the data that hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs will have to use online in this central centre. That worked out for sure, too. Today, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the arguments are absolutely clear. I would like to say to you, especially to those with whom I have started calling myself in writing today - hello Bob, hello Ivan, dear Martin, it is good to see you, dear Karel - that we may not have to hear more lies about this Balkan supertunel of a taxpayer. What we've heard is enough to prevent you from putting it into social reality. I think if it stays in the Balkans, that's enough. We do not need this in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Furthermore, Mr Laudát is declared with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first things first. You advocate convening extraordinary meetings, trying to tell the public that we are stalling here, even looking for ways to file a constitutional suit or bend the Rules of Procedure, change the Rules of Procedure. I would just point out that what happened here at the last meeting when we proposed the inclusion of different points is the question of who paralyzes the legislative work of this House. It has no equivalent to the last few years, and I think even after 1989, that there are dozens of bills or new laws that will be arrogantly postponed that will not be discussed. In fact, you are violating the fundamental constitutional right of a Member, which means having a legislative initiative. You don't give a damn about your attack on freedom, that you don't give a damn that attack on freedom is more important to you than acting in accordance with the Constitution. So if someone paralyzes the activity here, it's you. I'm glad most, except for the exceptions, my colleagues here have taken the carnival masquerade off their backs. This is the House, which should act with dignity, and I think that part of a dignified suit is also a dignified dress. You're, you're saying you'll be, you're trying to convince us of the argument. I believe that such an argument, which has not been made here, or arguments that have not been made, is based on the final report on the impact assessment of the regulation of the so-called RIA, which was prepared by a team of Treasury employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u9	I'm gonna ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u10	When I read this analysis at the moment it was processed, or you submitted the law to the House, obviously the processors were worried that the material would not be too thin, so it kind of reminds the students who process the thesis, and when it is said that the minimum range is 40 or even 60 pages, it just has to be processed. I hope most of you know what redundant is, that means unnecessary information. So what's in here in this analysis is, what's the paragraph, the repetition of arguments. What you could actually write down and analyze on about a third of the scope, so there are some pages here, I think maybe - I'm sorry, just a moment - 68, thank you, 68, but there's no way I'm going to allow myself to shorten comments and talk and argue about this analysis, because then the processors... Can I have some peace, please? Anyone who doesn't want to listen to it, I'm not going to take any non-standard steps, so you can use the time that doesn't matter to talk in the galleys. There's no problem, it won't insult me. Processors Mrs. Mgr Markéta Klozíková, Bc Jana Pokorná, . Martin Šabo, Mgr Matěj Zýka and Mgr Karel Šimek, so I say, I will not allow myself to shorten their work in any way, so I want to comment on this material point by point, so that in some way I will not mislead you or interpret anything by reducing it other than the analysis processors intended. [[9.20 hours]] The material has been processed - I will introduce you to the basic identification data, so that you know exactly which material it is. Title of bill: Act on registration of sales. Processor, translator's representative: Ministry of Finance. Date of entry into force: 1 January 2016, part 1 October 2015. Next indent, implementation of EU law: No. If a colleague here has asked, the chairman of the ANO Club will be better 2011 that essential political positions should be spoken, I will use this word, electronic record of sales: No. Proceeding with the material. 2. The objective of the bill. The clearly defined main objective is the introduction of a tool to ensure the reduction of the grey economy, more efficient tax collection, in particular income and VAT taxes, and the alignment of the market environment on the basis of the proposed sales log procedure. 3. Aggregated effects of bills. 3.1. Impacts on the state budget and other public budgets: Yes. What a typical word. In connection with the implementation of electronic sales records, the initial costs of building an IT system of approximately 370 million can be expected. CZK, hardware, software, module for the receipt lottery and so on, and costs of operating and managing the IT system on the side of the state of about 170 million. Crowns. If I may, Mr President, ask that there be peace on the left. I believe, for example, that instead of noisy here, they could solve the problem that, until today's 9 o'clock, the previous meeting has also been interrupted, which is running properly, and I do not know how you will deal with the continuation of the meeting properly at 14 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u11	I've warned colleagues and colleagues to keep their voice down, I think they're quite respectful. I think you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u12	Thank you. I don't want to delay, but if that's how it's gonna be... [[Loud applause and loud cheer especially from the center of the hall.]] In the event that it is noisy like this, then of course from planned less than 60 minutes it can stretch for hours. I quite understand, Mr ANO, that they do not like this approach. The problem is that you, according to the results of the previous elections, are the second strongest political party, but what you are stronger, the less responsibility to the public, to the 10,5 million inhabitants of this country, you have. Because if you had it, not only in this law, but in other laws, before you come to the House with something, you'd properly deal with the essence, consult experienced, clever people, and only then come up with something. [[Laughing in the hall]] I think--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u13	I will ask you, Mr President, to speak on the subject at hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u14	I have priority rights, Mr President. And if they are reacting here in a way that does not belong in the Chamber of Deputies, then I am doing my best to explain the matter to them. It's not my fault, and I didn't mean to put these plugs on. [[There's another sign of cheer in the hall.]] I would ask the Minister of Finance, if he does not want to behave properly, he is in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, in the lower chamber, so that he does not listen and walk away. And he can even go back to where he came from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u15	I ask you once again, Mr President, to speak on the subject under discussion, and this is the agenda for this meeting. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. So 3.1., I'm going to repeat this because you've certainly lost your thread. 3.1. Impacts on the state budget and other public budgets: Yes. In connection with the implementation of electronic sales records, the initial costs of building an IT system of approximately 370 million can be expected. CZK, hardware, software, module for the receipt lottery and so on, and costs of operating and managing the IT system on the side of the state of about 170 million. crowns a year. Further costs will be incurred for other support activities, about 130 million. Crowns. These costs include the cost of services to the public, i.e. PR and call center - I'm sorry, therefore probably the phone. However, these costs are expected mainly in the first two years of the project. A significant positive impact of sales records on the revenue side of the state budget is assumed, an increase in tax collection of about 12,5 billion. CZK, see page 59 to 66 in more detail. The fact that you will select an extra - a short comment - 12.5 billion crowns may only be believed by Babiš and his advisor Michl. 3.2. Impacts on business entities: Yes. The adjustment will affect most of the enterprising entities. A comparison of the market environment can be expected as a result of a more efficient detection of concealed actual sales. Most obliged entities will be costing the corresponding technical equipment to register their sales online. For some, these costs will be marginal, for some they will be larger. The proposal includes measures which compensate for these costs to smaller business natural persons, where the lowest equipment is presented by the necessary cashiers. See pages 50 to 58 for further details. - So business entities will be hit. Point 3.3. Impacts on local authorities, municipalities, regions: No. The revenues of the local authorities are excluded from the registration obligation, so we do not expect any impact on these entities. Here I would like to ask when we get to justify and argue whether the petitioner could say that he is behind this claim. I don't know how it's going to be broken down because there's a lot of coherence... [[Mrs Lorenc has acceded to the bench of the government and is briefly speaking with Minister Babiš.]] If I may ask that any consultation between Mrs Lorencová and the Deputy Prime Minister take place somewhere else. Thank you. The commitment of the public sector, the municipalities with private suppliers, the whole spectrum of companies that establish or have an involvement there, is so extensive that I am not clear where the dividing line will lead if this Balkan supernova is implemented. How will the relations between the municipalities being exempted be dealt with, their suppliers will not be, or how will they be dealt with by those companies that have a business character? And yet - it has not yet been mentioned here, so I assume that the Minister will fully justify it - they have a business character or a contribution status. [[9.30 hours]] There's a whole spectrum of variations. There are subsidized titles, but there are also commercial titles. So I believe that this can only be written by a person or a group of processors who have a big problem understanding the multilayerity and diversity of business relations in the Czech Republic. 3.4 point. Social impacts: Yes. As a result of the bill, the higher motivation of taxpayers will properly acknowledge and tax revenue. If the grey economy is reduced and the revenue side of the state budget is better met, there will be no need to increase taxes, but there may be a reduction in the tax burden. At the same time, there will be more room for investment in education, health care, social areas and so on. The potential impact on the price level or on employment is based on the analyses carried out as marginal. Here's what I'm saying, the Nečasův government has introduced the second pillar of pension insurance. You guys canceled this pillar. Within the second pension scheme, the rate of value added tax has been increased specifically for this purpose and for the remediation of declines. You guys canceled the second pillar recently. Now it's passed, I think yesterday, the senát - and what the devil didn't want, it would be solid for you to go back to your previous practice. If tax rates are increased in the name of any intention and this plan has then been abolished, it is logical and polite to citizens, the voters of this country, that you will return to the original level. The question is to the material promoter why you didn't do it. Why don't you do it, why don't you even plan it? For the next one. There's nothing stopping you from lowering your taxes even now. All you had to do was approve what you and your applause here on Wednesday, which means the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016. It was enough if you didn't push through unnecessary grant titles that had already lost meaning, let it be selective support for biofuels. All you had to do was recruit so many officials, many of whom have obtained the status of state service. It would be interesting to calculate the consumption of coffee on individual ministries after receiving a highly problematic mandate on how coffee consumption grew there. It has so far been demonstrated that the quality of the materials presented, and the question is whether it is a problem or behavior of civil servants or the incompetence of individual ministers, has fallen significantly. So please, the gamble you want to do with the businessmen that Minister Mládek, then the shadow finance minister Mr Mládek, called parasites, so gambling with this group is trying to convince the public on the grounds of envy to join your side. You're even doing it. Only citizens do not know that it will affect every single citizen of this country and will affect them in a negative way until the specific effects of your loving care and concern for them. Very interesting is that the environmental impact - it says no here. I will not resort to the appearance of a certain David Rath, who, in connection with the 30 crown fee, has been hard to fail and has shown how mortality increases because shocked people do not have 30 crowns and just die before they pay. However, I believe that even in the environment they would be able to find traces in time, until perhaps tens of thousands of people are sent from their trade to pavement, so, of course, they will feed as much as they can, using tools as they can, and one of those instruments is also the desperate ignorance of some environmental issues. I'm not going to bore you with the contents of the entire material because I'm going to focus on page by page of this material. I am based on the practice in the House that it is almost certain with the exception of perhaps a few individuals that you did not get acquainted with this material, because if you were familiar with this material, then you would definitely reject this project and would not want anything to do with it. As the government coalition insists on this project, I suppose, in the context of persuasion on my part, I'll give you a detailed briefing of this material. Chapter 1. Reason for submission and targets. 1.1 Name Assessment of the effects of regulation on the bill on registration of sales. 1.2 Definition of problems. 1.2.1 Point summary of problems. I think that, rather than tax evasion for you, the problem is the existence of an independent segment of the middle class, because unlike some commentators of the left-wing focus, the middle class is not just businessmen, it is a wider conglomerate of citizens whose more significant sign than income is behavior to life, respect for freedom, they like freedom because they want to take care of themselves, they don't go for benefits, they don't ask for subsidies, they build houses themselves. These are people who raise their children and think about the future of this country, and when you put it in context with this crazy project, it is quite obvious that you want to attack this independent free and self-righteous part of our society. [[Somebody sneezed.]] God bless you! Thus definition of problems, 1.2 Point summary of problems. I'll take your argument that EET is a problem. Combating tax evasion and more efficient tax collection is one of the priorities of the Czech Government. In accordance with this objective, the Government's programming declaration contains an obligation to introduce effective control of sales through an online sales log system. To that I would say, of course, no one is questioning the fight against tax evasion, but I increasingly believe, and I fear that you are sticking out, so aside from your crippled ground targets, you are actually pushing this mantra to cover up the real state of things. For me, an expert, a person in the right place is the one who takes the existing system first before going into reform, and when we're being criticized for how we don't collect taxes like huge tax evasion, how many people don't pay here, and how we behave impossible, someone always shows the championship by having significantly better results in the current system. However, if we look at hard figures and facts, then it is quite obvious that the effectiveness of tax collection with the accession of this government, and I think it will be two years on 19 January next year, that is, it is already half of your term of office, with the fact that you had a strong commitment to the previous President Zeman, drawn up by the administrative government of Jiří Rusnok, thus your responsibility extends until October 2013. [[9.40 hours]] You have certainly noticed current information about the dramatic increase in the number of value added tax payers. Perhaps it is because whoever is in charge of tax collection and is a civil servant, organizes political parties and defends political projects in the media instead of taking care of the proper functioning of the state administration. There is a completely similar case, for example. to the competition authority. It is absolutely unacceptable and shocking for me that Mr Brom, an official of the Office for Competition Protection, goes on television as an official who has the capacity of a supervisory authority and interprets his political Filipiks on entertaining shows that appear political. This is totally unacceptable to me. The official is to be based on existing legislation and is to enforce the right under applicable laws in an absolutely effective way, not to participate in political campaigns. If he wants to participate, there is nothing to prevent him from leaving the state administration, the supervisory authorities, etc., which are required to enforce the right, and he is to run for a political party or set up his own party. This is how civil servants are supposed to behave, not in the way some people behave and create auxiliary crutches for politicians. That means closing this indent, point summary of the problem. Prove that you are able to take advantage of the existing legislation intensively, reduce tax evasion, solve the problems of the growing number of value added tax payers, that you are able to bring tax matters to an end. Then, well, once you've exhausted all options, then it's time to come up with new projects. Here, in this situation, I remind myself of years after college when I was working at the research institute, and there were two categories of people. One category that desperately tried to do something under communist misery by existing means, and the other one that faked scientific activity, and to cover it up, so instead, when there was a hint of a journey, some interesting information, she began to work, so she began to build laboratories, carry various tools, stretch carpets and instead of professional activities... The problem was that five years had passed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u17	Mr President, I am sorry, but I must lead you to discipline in order for you to really discuss the subject and that is the agenda for this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u18	This, Mr President, is on the subject of a meeting. I am here trying to persuade the President of the plaintiff to speak afterwards and say that the project is useless and that he will simply be interrupted or interrupted by the next elections, and whether the voters want to decide whether they want to be stalked. I didn't see anybody on election billboards saying, "We're gonna check your every move, don't move a muscle, if you just don't report to us, we're gonna decide how you're gonna do business, if we don't like you, so we're gonna take you over predatorically, or we're gonna have you arrested. I didn't see it on the billboards. If the government coalition wants to do this policy, or the citizens of the Czech Republic give up freedom, then yes, if the vast majority is, then most people vote for it. However, at this point most nations have not voted to spy on the general public, and therefore I have no choice but to argue here and convince the intelligentst part of Members that this project is harmful. However, as I promised when I was elected chairman of the TOP 09 and the Mayors, my election is bad news for those who want to sharpen freedom, good news for those who defend freedom. Mr. Václav Havel wasn't in jail at a time when others were turning themselves in and off and traveling the world, unlike most, and the vast majority of the nation, so that some gang would turn it back somewhere. That's why Václav Havel didn't sit in prison. I'll keep going. That's just an explanation. This has to do with it, Mr President, very closely. [[- Please continue.]] Next indent. The introduction of electronic sales records has two key objectives: Limiting the grey economy... If you're saying something about half a million, count how many hundred percent of the vote you have here, honourable Members for the ANO movement, have sent to the division, to various divisions of Agrofert. That's not 500,000, that's billions. The introduction of electronic sales records has two key objectives: reducing the grey economy and more efficient tax collection, in particular income taxes and value added tax. For another: the settlement of the market environment in the Czech economy, where honest entrepreneurs in various sectors of the economy are unable to compete with those who do not pay taxes properly. I believe that... Of course, it sounds logical. Some pay taxes, they have a competitive disadvantage against those who don't pay taxes. You can sign that, of course. It's interesting that today in this current environment, when you say that someone pays taxes, someone doesn't pay taxes, that you don't mind saying that you selectively say part of biofuels, and you voted here that one part gets subsidies or tax concessions, and the other part doesn't. You are here selectively some types that have the same effect in the finals, even an ecologically higher effect - and you do not call this distorting the competitive environment? You don't call that distorting a competitive environment? I call it distorting the competitive environment, and even to a much larger extent. [[Notes from the O.R. off the mic: That's bullshit.]] It's not bullshit, please, and use decent words, you're in the House. So I think that really selective subsidies for selected groups of people really... Mr President, if I may ask them not to yell at me. [[- Please continue.]] Thank you... I do not know if I, Mr President, have the right from the Rules of Procedure to wait for them to stop shouting at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u19	I haven't noticed anyone yelling at you at the moment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u20	Thank you. If the state does not have sufficient tools, it is further written in a given analysis of RIA how to collect taxes effectively and will not use them, it will have a negative impact not only on honest entrepreneurs, all citizens of the Czech Republic who bear tax burdens on their shoulders. If the grey economy is reduced and the revenue side of the state budget is better met, taxes will not need to be increased, but, on the contrary, tax burdens may be reduced. At the same time, there will be more room for investment in education, health care, social areas and so on. All, not just a narrow group of dishonest ones, should profit from this. I'm glad it says "a narrow, dishonest group of people" that they're not all businessmen in this analysis. A narrow dishonest group, if it is nowhere defined, how narrow this group is, whether it is narrower or even narrower or narrower. And I do not agree, of course, with the first sentence, where it says "if it does not have sufficient tools." The state has enough tools. It is a question of how effective it uses them. So far, it seems in this parliamentary term that the effectiveness of the use of these instruments is falling, and then the clear result of the decline in this efficiency is a fall in the efficiency of tax collection. Next point. One of the major priorities of the government is to improve the efficiency of tax collection, we're back to it, I was talking about the redundant - actually, a shift in information. So improving the efficiency of tax and customs collection and preventing abuse and circumvention of tax regulations. The introduction of electronic sales records, combined with other measures, should be an effective instrument that should contribute significantly to the objective, namely to reducing the so-called grey economy. The sentence is so long that when I start at the beginning, hardly anyone knows what the processors wanted to say at the end. [[In front of the speaker's counter stands a group of members of the YES.]] Next point. For example, according to the current survey of the Pulse of Economics, KPMG in Central and Eastern Europe, CEE, took place among almost 500 company leaders. More than 60 percent of Czech companies consider the grey economy a real problem. Interestingly, people who actually decide whether or not the grey economy is a gray economy are considered a problem, that is, entrepreneurs. Maybe if they're doing it themselves, maybe some of them... I'd like to ask them to leave, they have reserved benches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u21	This is a thing that's quite justified. I will ask you, gentlemen, to take your place, either to sit in your benches or to go into the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u22	You know, it started here in the last parliamentary term because the Social Democrats were throwing themselves in here when Mr. Melčák decided to leave, and it ended up having to have security for state spending afterwards. That was it for the rest of the term. So I would ask you not to run into exactly the same methods. I'm not picking on anybody here either, I'm not arriving. Thank you. This means that I believe that a little bit of questions about whether they say it's a big problem, and it's a representative survey, then the first thing that would be - unfortunately, for serious family reasons, there is no Professor Putnová here today, who has a long history of business ethics, is publishing in this area, perhaps it would be good for the entrepreneurs concerned to start acting according to her work, her studies and her publications. Ethics in business, that's her theme. So the KPMG said it was a real problem. Similarly, EU estimates show that only VAT evasion in the Czech Republic is about 80 billion. CZK annually, i.e. about 2 per cent of gross domestic product. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] It is interesting that this is being analysed by the European Union, the same institution that is looking for problems elsewhere, even so intensely that a center of terrorism has been organized around the corner of the street from its seat, which is destroying democracy throughout Europe today. According to estimates by the Czech Statistical Office, revenues that could theoretically be taxed are mainly classified revenues, amounts of more than 160 billion. Crowns. It's just as much the same number on the water as the absurd number as the numbers in yours, now I'm talking about the ANO movement will be better 2011 when you talk about the fact that even 300, 600 billion are stolen every year in public procurement. Crowns. It was, of course, absurd numbers. That's what's showing up today. So either you're stealing even more than the previous political representation, or it just wasn't true. They're the traceable statements of today's first vice-premiere of this country, the vice-premiere of the government. So where is it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u23	I'm sorry to interrupt. I'll ask for peace, especially in the left side of the hall. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u24	Thank you. What's absurd is that you've defended, while I'm at it for transparency, various NGOs have helped you to do that, the Lord knows where they're financed. He's quiet today. And all of a sudden, you're entering contracts without public competitions, both on a running belt in a much larger volume and in a much larger frequency than the previous political representation. And it's dead quiet. It's just an explanation. It can no longer be tested in public competitions, what is the real market price of a number of services, a number of investment decisions. I could talk about a toll consulting firm at the Treasury Department. And those who were there on the steering committee at the last meeting, so you saw what they were doing there. For example, there was a Member of Social Democracy, Birke. He can tell the story of what kind of men they are. [[Noise in the hall.]] The Czech Statistical Office is talking about 160 billion, the European Union has calculated it here on the GDP of 80 billion, i.e. 2% of gross domestic product. The data listed in the table below, and it will be very interesting, include estimates according to various forms of tax evasion. The first form is not to report income made and the second form is to overestimate costs in the accounts. The estimated data are available for 2012, the most recent data available. It is a pity that you have not calculated the actual dates, whether these matters, tax evasions, whether on personal taxes or legal persons, on value added tax... I'm sorry. I'm really distracted by this speech in the benches. Table of outstanding income and excess cost according to NACE - 2012. There are several items: agriculture, forestry and fishing. Undisclosed income in millions, so I'm going to say billions of crowns. Agriculture, forestry and fisheries: 12 billion 394 miles. Undocumented income and overvalued costs in millions of crowns: 14 billion. 227 miles. Crowns. Who has a significant share in agriculture, forestry, fishing? It's alarming. I am quite interested in whether the current tax administration, in the light of these alarming numbers, is taking some measures to take priority, because this is not even the highest, but nevertheless a very high amount, which has focused on the very sectors where, according to these definitely credible numbers, there are such huge tax evasions. [[10.00 hours]] So agriculture, forestry, fishing. Let me just briefly repeat: 12 billion. 394 miles. and other outstanding income and overvalued costs 14 billion. 227 miles. Mining and conquest, there's zero. Very gratifying news that no one has more to bear than, for example, the fees for the excavated space. For c. Processing industry. There is even worse, the numbers, according to the processors of this analysis. This means that undisclosed revenue in billions of crowns is 17 billion 993 million and undisclosed revenue and overvalued costs in millions 28 billion 770 million. This means that the manufacturing industry is likely to have enormous artificial costs, probably accounting for some issues that have nothing to do with the business at all. And a lot of products are made black. I don't know if we have black workshops here or if it's similar to that of growing cannabis for the purpose of producing drugs. In total, compared to agriculture, forestry and fisheries and the manufacturing industry, these leakages are marginal for electricity, gas, heat and air-conditioned air production and distribution, where undisclosed revenues in millions of CZK are reported at 216 million and undisclosed revenues and overvalued costs in millions of 375 million. Someone's probably hiding solar panels on the roof. For e. Item e. Water supply. Waste water, waste and remediation activities. Unidentified revenue in billions of 2 billion 93 million and outstanding revenue and overvalued costs in millions of 3 billion 387 million. From the point of view of other items, which will be multiplied by the order of magnitude, it is not so great in the intensity of the state budget. Attention, quite easy to guard, or not lightly, but watchable, now the construction sector. And that's where the numbers are most alarming. The outstanding income in billions is 36 billion 956 million, and the outstanding income and overvalued costs in billions 56 billion 749 million. So when the Minister of Finance gets here and the first vice prime minister of this government... [[Komárek has been standing right in front of the speaker's desk all the time and is now photographing the speaker with his mobile phone.]] Mr Vice-President, do you think you could send Mr. Komárek out of this area? I don't mind. During the past period, this photo show was held here by an MP whose IQs had some doubts. I'd like to ask him to leave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u25	I will ask Mr.Faltýnek's Chairman to arrange for his club to be held among his Members. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u26	That means, here's the absurdity. Huge at least according to the study processors, and of course we all feel it emotionally...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u27	I think you can continue. The room's quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u28	Just a quick note. It would also not be pleasant for some Members to run around with a camera and take pictures of them at the beer station across the street. That means that electronic sales log doesn't go to the construction site where the leaks are the biggest. She's headed for the pub. She's targeting small businessmen who have hundreds of thousands of dollars of bills. But construction here - nothing. You have two years of transportation. Then why didn't you take greater measures to make the competition more transparent? Apparently, the transparency of this coalition and, in particular, the resort, which has the second minister nominated by the ANO movement, so what anti-corruption measures did the association take? Perhaps the only thing: that almost nothing is built, which, of course, is also one way to limit tax evasion. [[The noise in the hall is rising again.]] So I'm saying again. If I add it up, we're on some without a few hundred billion crowns, which are estimated to be leaks in the construction industry. Item g. Wholesale and retail trade, repair and maintenance of motor vehicles. 35 billion 138 are outstanding income, 45 billion 334 million are outstanding income and overvalued costs in billions of crowns. It's a very distinctive item again. I don't know if it's that big a problem to focus on this sector, to control it more, to carry out checks in this particular resort, in service and so on. Again, if someone actually took this analysis as their own, they would probably be ratios and certainly would not decrease the effectiveness of tax collection. Transport and storage. It is not negligible tax evasion, but it is not one of the highest. The outstanding revenue is calculated at 5 billion 699 million and the outstanding revenue and the overvalued costs are 9 billion 884 million. Accommodation, catering, hospitality, so it was the bad luck that they targeted, so here is reported 20 billion undisclosed revenue 17 million and 22 billion 546 million undisclosed revenue and overvalued costs in millions of crowns. But the question is why this sector is being attacked. So why isn't it first attacked by those sectors where they're calculated, and I have no doubt that somebody estimated it or calculated it qualifiedly? This means that if you defend when you get to the word, these items and why on this particular sector, then please logical would be to take it descending from the largest item and say: and in this sector we have taken these measures, those measures, etc. Of course, because EET is a pairing invoice, but the effect is not clear what it will be like, even the Ministry of Finance is so capable that until today, entrepreneurs don't even have a table that all the data is supposed to have there. Obviously, this is a reason for careful analysis so that this data can be commercially used for the future, I will not say that it will be used. Another item or sector of the economy is information and communication activities. Unproven income of 4 billion 819 million. The outstanding income and overvalued costs in millions are CZK 7 billion 190 million. Once again, of course, chasing who didn't pay for what and invented his head, here I take it it's going to be quite difficult, a cortex in today's era of globalization, where the free movement of people, capital, the globalised real estate market, and so on. Money and insurance have zero. It is alleged that the analysis is not stolen or stolen there, according to the processors. tax evasion is not invented. There are other things - that artificially inflate costs, and this usually happens today - outsourced or transferred from Czech stone houses to mothers, at least during the time of the crisis of the banking sector, during the world financial crisis it was done and it was identified. This artificially increased the bank's profits so that they could bail out their failed investments in their mothers' headquarters, bad estimates, or even robberies. [[10.10 hours]] Real estate activities. This is where undocumented revenue is reported 3,325 miles. and outstanding revenue and overvalued costs 4 324 million. Crowns. Professional and scientific and technical activities are quite interesting numbers towards this sector. That's probably why Minister Bělobrádek, I'm sorry, the Vice Prime Minister takes care of this sector and has visions of what it has. So professional, scientific and technical activities outstanding income 8 752 miles. and outstanding revenue and overvalued costs 10 796 million. Crowns. Administrative and support activities not declared revenue 3 447 million, undocumented revenue and overvalued costs 4 988 million. Crowns. Public administration and defence, compulsory social security, here's zero, so health, social, everything is public administration and defense. Education - these are not so dramatic amounts: 659 miles. are outstanding revenue and a billion twenty is the sum of outstanding income and overvalued costs. Health and social services. There it is similarly in the order of small numbers: 1 495 miles. Compared to that, 2,121 miles. CZK of outstanding income and overvalued costs. Cultural and entertainment activities are also reported not to be as dramatic as 1 758 miles, according to processors. versus the sum of 2,781 miles. Crowns. I don't know who's in the cultural area, I think maybe the study processors here were a little optimistic. And as we know, optimist is a man who doesn't have enough information. Item S, other activities. There is talk in this section about what is included in this section. Apparently, what the processors couldn't put in all the others, they put in this particular item. So that's where the outstanding revenue amounts to 5 193 miles. Crowns. And along with the overvalued costs, it's quite enough: 7 911 miles. Crowns. Activities of households as employers, activities of households producing unspecified products and services for own consumption: 2 262 mil. Crowns. And in addition to the overvalued costs of 2 262 million. So here it turns out they're identical, so there's no overvalued costs. When he's making for himself, he probably doesn't actually have anything to admit when he doesn't even admit the product itself. I believe that each member of the household should therefore be equipped with an EET cash register. And when Grandma knits a hat for her grandson, she should report sales, production, and then be taxed. Activities of external organisations and bodies, zero in both items. To the words that I've lost my mind, I'd point out, I hear that from the machine guns that you're crazy. Unfortunately, you won't pay for it, you'll be stocked up before you leave, your followers and this country will pay for it. So, quite collectively, when all these items are added up, the outstanding revenue in billions of crowns is calculated at 162 156 miles. Crowns. And in addition to the overvalued costs, it is CZK 224,665. Source: Estimates of the Ministry of Finance based on own data and data of the Czech Statistical Office. It would be quite interesting if the Members had both institutions, i.e. The Ministry of Finance and the Czech Statistical Office also gave a methodology of calculation. I would always like to know how these data are estimated and analysed when we are moving, of course there are methods for qualified estimates, but no one has ever said much about how these estimates are made, what numbers, according to which formulas this is then conceived. Of course there are hard data from some economic movements, financial flows. On the basis of this, however, I would say that real life and the real economy are a little different. This means that the numbers may correspond to some reality, but they may not answer at all. And if I go back to the very beginning of the point summary of problems, then after that table of what our esteemed Treasury is supposedly missing, there's another point. According to the Ministry of Finance's findings, only in the food services sector, restaurants, inns, bars should theoretically amount to 11 billion VAT according to revised national accounts. Crowns. However, according to ADIS data, 1.6 billion were carried out by this sector. Crowns. In a static assessment, this indicates a potential tax evasion in the range of 9.4 billion. Crowns. I don't know if our economy is standing and falling with the innkeepers. I believe, therefore, that if I were to go back and take the way of construction, it would probably be more effective to attack alleged tax evasions of 56 749 million, rather than run around the countryside chasing innkeepers to pay all the money. And I think they even pay them, and I just don't trust these numbers. Point 1.2.2. A detailed description of the issue. Financial management does not have sufficient tools to combat tax evasion effectively. Just a moment, please. [[He's pouring water.]] If I could ask Mr. President to send Mr. Komárek away again as part of this little bounce. [[Komárek is standing on the bench against the speaker's counter.]] I believe, at least from his happier productive period, that he should be able to provoke and make himself visible in this way, the crippled, undignified Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the lower chambers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u29	I will ask you to continue, and I firmly believe that Mr Komárek will take his seat on the bench, because otherwise I will have to interrupt the meeting. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u30	It may be symbolic, he has already shown his back to the truth, perhaps showing that at some point he will show his back to the political party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u31	I'm gonna ask you to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u32	Mr President, I think that you should be able to force a Member to follow decent behavior and leave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u33	I'm going to ask you to stick to the subject, and that is discussing the agenda of the meeting, and that the discussion goes without personal attacks. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for resigning. [[To the messenger. Mosquito.]] Now he's shown only parts of his back. A detailed description of the issue. I'm trying hard here to convince the coalition to be aware, because then, when it doesn't pick, when it breaks down the business sector, businessmen, etc., they'll say, "We didn't know." And I want to prove by this example and say that then you won't be able to say that you didn't know. You didn't know anything either. Mr. Vice Prime Minister also said: I had other ideas, there are quite a lot of things different than I did in the election campaign, when suddenly it comes to ceilings - it builds highways, it doesn't build highways. At first, it was our fault, and now the other day, he said it was the law. I'm moving on. Detailed description of the issue - point 1.2.2. Financial management does not have sufficient tools to combat tax evasion effectively. The effectiveness of tax collection and customs duties depends on the possibilities of the financial authorities to determine whether an entity has incurred an obligation to grant and pay tax. At present, the rule of law does not establish a system of rights and obligations ensuring the continuous flow of information needed for the management of individual types of taxes between tax entities and the tax administrator. As a result, a lack of an overview of the tax administrator's relevant tax liability, including taking into account the instruments which the tax authorities are entrusted with in order to determine the existence of a tax obligation by law, in particular the tax rules. [[data]] That situation supports the conduct of tax entities seeking to conceal the facts relevant to the administration and collection of the tax and distortion of the actual image of the overall tax liability. This non-negligible measure of the possibility of unlawful circumvention of the tax obligation is subsequently reflected in an overview of the amount of the total tax obligation as well as in the final stage of the amount of the collected tax collection for income taxes, value added tax, excise duties and other taxes which are not linked to the subject matter of the tax, which is already subject to certain legal records, such as the real estate register. [[Sounds like ringtones.]] Please note that cell phones are also quiet. Thank you. [[Same sound again.]] It's not a cell phone! [[The Minister of Finance has a child's toy on his desk - a plastic register.]] Yes, you're offering the citizens bakelite. You offer businessmen bakelite, civil servants...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u35	I will ask both the debater to stick to the subject and the Vice Prime Minister to respect the ongoing debate. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u36	Thank you. I suppose your Deputy Závodský will say somewhere that - I don't know if he's under state administration or political deputy, I think he's under state administration - that I read nonsense here, so this time when he says it, in which case it would be nonsense from your office. This means that the authors of the work here claim that the current Financial Administration does not have information, it does not have enough tools to combat tax evasion effectively. Unlike processors, at least I think he has enough tools, that he has enough options to collect data, but the difference is that either you go selectively to companies where you know there are tax evasions, that you haven't been there for a long time, that you haven't been there for tax control, or whether you'll be conveniently touching data from all of them on an ongoing basis, and then who knows what you'll be using them for. I think I know what you're gonna use them for. And that would also explain why even during the preparation, the issue of building the system in pre-selected hands will be entrusted, not so that an independent person can sign up, and therefore there would be even less doubt as to whether the technical system builder will therefore be credible enough not to use this data long after the departure of existing protagonists from the political scene to unfair practices. So here I am in fundamental conflict with what the processors of this material claim. I'm moving on. [[A note from the diaper.]] Yes, I'll keep going. The greatest danger of the current illegal tax reduction practice can be seen in tax entities which, by their nature or nature, are more types of tax payers who are not paid for them by means of a payer and for which it is reasonable to assume that they can be deducted from a larger tax base than other tax entities. So this is where the processors used an end-of-life view - shortening practice, shortening taxes, so they cut it once and don't cut it any longer. This situation can be considered undesirable for reasons on the part of effective public finance management, as well as for reasons on the part of private natural and legal persons. I'd like to renegotiate...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u37	[[After a while.]] I think you can continue. There's adequate peace in the room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u38	Thank you. Lower efficiency of regulation and control of compliance with tax obligations... Your impatience. So I'm going to get some, because I'm only on the third page of this extensive analysis, so I'm going to shorten my performance, I can end up on the 12th page, if you're impatient and you don't want to listen to the arguments, but I would at least ask you to keep up with the 12 pages. We're about a quarter behind us. The lower efficiency of regulation and control of compliance with tax obligations is reflected in the reduction in the amount of State budget revenue. The funds not carried out make it fundamentally difficult to reduce the deficit of the State budget and to implement all planned and planned expenditure flows on the expenditure side of the State budget. I'd like to drop by a little bit, here it is, which means, esteemed entrepreneurs, esteemed innkeepers, esteemed tradesmen, craftsmen, so it's written here in other words. You're responsible for the state deficit being what it is, you're responsible for not collecting taxes, you're the parasites, in the words of the current Minister Mládek. I'm glad I'm not confusing him. Yesterday, a reporter said that Minister Chládek, excuse me, Mrázek, will be at the bottom of Paskov. I didn't misunderstand, Minister Mládek. So you're the parasites. Even in the words of this analysis, it's pointing at you, so it's your fault we don't have a paradise here. Proceeding. Primarily, this means financing unforgettable costs and public services, which constitute the necessary condition for ensuring the operation of the State. However, to the extent that tax collection has been shortened, there is a leak that cannot be used to support certain other public services and other publicly beneficial investments. Moreover, this reduction notes the state planning policy in terms of setting the volume of funds invested by the State in the future and inevitably causes planning of expenditure to a lesser extent than would be the case in a state which would ensure a full contribution of these funds. [[10.30 hours]] This is just a development of what I said, because only the necessary expenses are financed, without which the state falls - you know what. The necessary expenditure is selective support for biofuels, non-investment subsidies to business operators, of course only some, various indulgences of all kinds, lobbyist and lobbyist economy, nothing more, nothing less. In all the countries where they went this way, things went wrong or are on the right track to make things worse. Another important aspect is the settlement of the market environment in the Czech economy, as honest entrepreneurs in various sectors of the economy are unable to compete with those who do not pay taxes properly. A number of entrepreneurs who properly fulfil their obligations towards that State appeal to the introduction of measures that would enable them to withstand competition that does not pay taxes. I don't know where that line of businessmen is. As far as I know and what public opinion polls have been done among businessmen, the vast majority disagree. They had no idea or forgot that the House had already passed the inspection report. Of course, they're gonna be very excited, and as they don't mind, so they're gonna write a checkout report, they're gonna spin the cash register, they're just gonna whip it. I don't think they'll have much time for business. And that's not true. Public opinion polls. That's what the various presidents of the various chambers, chambers of commerce and others have been saying, how they are behind it, etc. Interestingly, there are indeed business chambers where their management does not defend the interests of its own members. But maybe when the members figure it out, they'll make a brief trial with them. It's happening again forever, just like our economy is bad, it's just uncompetitive because somebody doesn't pay taxes and stuff. Just so you don't wonder soon, and it's not much worse than it is now. All it takes is for the economy to cool down. Yours through a colleague of Komárek. The possibility of not admitting the tax also entails the possibility of reducing the price of goods or services and thus obtaining an unjustified business advantage against competition in the fight for the customer. Therefore, it is not possible for honest tax entities to guarantee full equality of protection of property rights within the meaning of Article 11 of Law No. 2/1993 Coll., on the Declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, when by circumventing the tax obligation there is enrichment of dishonest entities by undelivered funds. In this way, dishonest entities cannot be completely prevented from giving rise to this unjustified property advantage obtained at the expense of ordinary taxpayers. I don't know what tax equality - and I'm going back to that, as I'm going to repeat the depreciation in the material here, and what is tax equality under the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, when someone is selectively receiving subsidies, even if they are necessary, and the other doesn't get them. Ladies and gentlemen, for the moment, I will give the opportunity to approve the agenda for the meeting, to speak to other speakers with my opinions, and I will interrupt this. I suppose I'll have enough time. I didn't even finish page 3. Alternatively, I would ask for a meeting with the processors of this material and agree with them that the material is not redundant enough, and I would agree with them to shorten the next performances that can be released for repeated information, while not misrepresenting this material or writing exercises in good faith. So I'd like to thank you for your attention for the moment, and we'll continue next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I have another envoy from Mr Faltýnek, Mr Petr Fiala will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, let me put forward a procedural proposal, without debate, to vote that the Chamber of Deputies will vote today on the proposal for a 37th agenda. 12. 2015 at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u41	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. It's a procedural proposal. I merely specify that this is, according to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, 248 of the 9th meeting on 26 February 1997. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u42	Allow me, Madam President, to protest and, if possible in a procedural manner, the veto of the two Members' clubs, because voting on the agenda of the meeting, without discussing the agenda of the meeting, and individual speakers could make arguments as to why it should or should not be approved, in my view it is not possible and contradicts parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u43	Mr. Ambassador, I'm afraid it's not possible to apply the veto on a procedural proposal. Before I begin the vote, I will sign you all off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Mr. Ambassador, you have no priority... yes, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u44	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have priority rights because the President of the Stanjura Assembly and Mrs Černochová are also excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u45	All right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u46	I would ask that the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, to which Mr Faltýnek refers, be quoted, because otherwise I consider this vote to be quite impossible in a procedural manner. We do not have an approved agenda, it is not possible to make these procedural proposals. So please, what are you coming from? Otherwise, I argue that this is an unconstitutional procedure, and I will treat it as an unconstitutional procedure, including an appeal to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u47	Yes, I will read this resolution. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Parliament of the Czech Republic, Chamber of Deputies 1997, second term... sorry. It's, I'm sorry. Second parliamentary term, it is resolution 248, of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 9 February 1997 as amended by resolution No. 491 of the 16th meeting of 21 May 2003 of the fourth parliamentary term, resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 20 of the 2nd meeting of 12 September 2006 of the fifth parliamentary term and resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 24 of the 2nd meeting of 4 December 2013 of the seventh parliamentary term on the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, by which the Chamber of Deputies regulates its internal circumstances and detailed rules of procedure. The Chamber of Deputies shall determine, in accordance with Article 1 (1): 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, more detailed rules of its conduct as follows: Rule one - The Chamber of Deputies may decide not to be voted at some time and the vote on the proposals submitted will take place at a specified time. Article 2 - Opinion of a member club not subject to the limitation of speaking time pursuant to Paragraph 59 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1, only one may be presented for the parliamentary club on this point. Article three - during an emergency state of service to the Houses... I read the entire resolution to the end, as requested. Delivery of the Houses of Press § 120d shall be made by the Member to submit it in paper form to the rapporteur and to have it distributed through the Office of the Chamber of Deputies to all Members until the end of the debate. The rapporteur or rapporteur shall inform the House in the debate of the submission of such a proposal. Miloš Zeman, by his own hand, President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jiří karas, by his own hand, verifier of the Chamber of Deputies. So that's what I'm... With priority rights, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u48	That's what I thought. This is a resolution that concerns something completely different. You all know that. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] It does - but please read it before you start quoting it before you appeal to it. It concerns that no vote will be taken at some time and the vote will take place at a later date. It does not concern the possibility of ending the debate or the priority rights to the programme and of saying that there is a way to vote. I'm saying this is completely unconstitutional. Totally unconstitutional. I wonder what you'll do if you vote for such a resolution, I'll speak at 11 o'clock, so you can't take my word anyway. [[Ambassador Faltynek off the mic: Ready.]] Well, I believe not, it's a violation of another paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. Be careful with that. I'll meet you at the Constitutional Court if you vote yes now. I say that this is an unconstitutional act by both the appellants and the President who is voting on it, and I object to the President's procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u49	Okay. I take note, however, I believe that this is your personal interpretation. I shall first vote on the objection to the President's procedure. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 2, to which 154 are registered, for 54, against 75. The motion was denied. We will therefore now consider Mr Faltýnek's proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 3, to which 154 are registered, for 91, against 44. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Now, please, to Mr. Fiala's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech concerns the agenda for today's meeting, and I would like to draw your attention to a subject that I think is pointless at this extraordinary meeting, because we could have discussed it at a proper meeting, and that is an electronic record of sales and the reasons why the Civil Democratic Party believes that electronic records of sales should not be introduced. I have, of course, noticed that it was agreed in violation of the Rules of Procedure of some resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, but I believe that I will be allowed to exercise my right of priority and to finish my speech and you have heard all the arguments I want to introduce you to. As I said, the Civil Democratic Party has a number of specific reservations about the introduction of electronic sales records. Some of them have already been heard in our first and second reading speeches, I will not repeat them, but the most important ones that we have mentioned here, I would like to briefly summarize, among other things, because we have raised a number of questions here that we have not received any answers to. Electronic -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u51	Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt. I will ask all colleagues who have something to take care of so that they do so in the lobby and do not disturb the House with their loud talk. Ambassador, I apologize for the noise. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u52	Thank you. Electronic sales log is useless. We've said that many times. The current government is trying to transfer one of its basic obligations through the introduction of electronic sales records - and it is the government's duty to collect taxes, which we certainly agree on, to create tools for good tax collection, but the government's task is not to transfer this obligation to someone else, and the government is not to do so in our opinion or to do so. And here in this case, the government wants to transfer its basic duty to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because it tells us in other words: we are not able to ensure a good tax collection, so you pay it, you will control yourself permanently, and this will improve the allegedly tax collection. The electronic record of sales is an area restriction which no substantial increase in tax collection can bring. As the Croatian example shows, there is probably no better tax collection at all. The electronic record of sales will relate to the seven percent potential of the grey economy in the Czech Republic and I would point out that the share of the grey economy in the Czech Republic according to all relevant foreign methodologies and studies is somewhere around 15 percent, which is below 18% of the average of the European Union countries, for example Germany, to which we can look at this is 12%, we have 15%, but it certainly does not resemble the situation in Croatian, which is diametrically different, where the share of the grey economy is practically double. Moreover, it is the Croatian experience, and again I remind you that Croatia is the only country where the system that the Minister of Finance Babiš wants to implement here really works in some form, so we can refer to a reference case precisely on the situation in Croatia and in Croatia, as we can see, there has been no higher tax revenue after the introduction of electronic sales records. When we look at the figures that we have from Croatia, I think we should argue on a factual and numerical basis here, we can clearly see that - I am saying really important facts here, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u53	Yes, I'll ask my colleagues at the empire if they can move their discussion to the lobby, please do so. [[He waits a while for some Members to leave the hall.]] I will also ask the colleague who is before me and my colleagues not to shout at each other. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u54	Yes. I will continue, however, I would like to say that first we are negotiating here at an emergency meeting, which is completely absurd, because we have not discussed the e-booking of sales law at any third reading meeting yet, and I do not understand why the government coalition is doing this. Then here against the Rules of Procedure, and you will see that it turns out that it was in complete conflict with the Rules of Procedure, you have approved something, and then the Chamber of Deputies does not have the decency to hear my factual, argument-based and political speeches. I don't usually have a problem with it, it doesn't discipline the Chamber of Deputies, but it does today. And I have to say, this violation of all the rules of the game really fills me with great discontent. The fact that I'm looking at some undignified T-shirts in the Chamber of Deputies - am I supposed to have fun? Ladies and gentlemen, that's not what I'm talking about, but I'm able to ignore it, as well as some toy from the Minister of Finance here. I'm able to ignore it and respect that, as little boys, you're playing around in some way and you want to demonstrate something in front of the public, but you respect that I want to act as a serious politician and argue politically here. And I don't have a chance. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] [[10.50 hours]] So back to the Croatian experience. For those who have lost the thread in the meantime, as I have lost it, I remind you that I have tried to give the facts that offer us the only country where there is an electronic record of sales, and that is Croatia. If we expect better tax collection from electronic sales records, then we need to see what actually happened in Croatia. And we will see that while the collection of personal income tax increased by some 8 percent in the short term in 2013, it fell again in 2014, so rather than adding electronic sales records, we must add this to standard cyclical developments. How can we prove that? It was in Croatia on the collection of taxes on natural persons in the following years before and which followed afterwards. Thus, the link between the better collection of personal income tax and the subsequent decline is undoubtedly not dependent on... or there is no connection to the electronic registration of sales, its introduction. On the contrary, the corporate tax collection decreased by 17 % in 2013 and by 15 percent in the following year, i.e. in 2014. So it dropped. And even in the case of value added tax, the tax returns didn't produce better. In 2013, the collection of value added tax decreased by 1 %, and in 2014 the collection of value added tax increased again by 1 %, but this was mainly due to the increase in the reduced VAT rate, which was originally 10 % and 13 % in Croatia. So no connection can be found here either, on the contrary. If there's a connection, it's simple. The introduction of electronic sales records did not bring anywhere better tax collection, did not bring higher revenue to the state, did not do what we are promised here, and I do not know on what basis the facts, what experience, that simply more funds will be collected into the state register. Croatian Finance Minister Boris Lalovac at the Prague conference organized by the Czech Ministry of Finance even stated that electronic sales records, and now I quote: "It was not introduced to fill the budget, but it was a project that brings an honest fight between entrepreneurs." But as I'm going to point out, it didn't really happen in Croatia, and at the words of other Croatian officials, it didn't bring up the fair fight between businessmen. But now I'm using this quote from the Croatian Finance Minister to show you that he couldn't claim either, and he didn't claim that electronic sales records could improve the state budget. Another argument: The system will be expensive. And it's gonna be expensive for the state, and it's gonna be expensive for businessmen. The figures published by the Ministry of Finance are clear. Or what can be deduced from the things that the Treasury has published is quite clear. The acquisition of the system will cost taxpayers some 370 miles. CZK, operation of the system itself and related costs another 300 million. crowns every year. So in the beginning we will have some cost of input 370 million crowns, then every year we will have costs of about 300 million. CZK, and the state still expects to hire 400 new employees of the Financial and Customs Administration, whose wages will cost us 150 million. crowns a year. Perhaps a number of members and members of the Chamber of Deputies are one that this state will issue at the beginning of 370 million, then 300 million. every year, then 150 miles. Every year. And I'm not saying they don't care, even if it surprises me, it wouldn't matter to me, but I think they could at least hear the argument and the information. And I am afraid that sometimes we are in a situation here that we cannot hear what I am saying, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u55	I have asked my colleague and colleagues several times, on the other hand, I must say that it is quite quiet here against other days, but again I will ask my colleague and colleagues to keep their voice down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u56	That, of course, is a subjective evaluation I'm not taking from you. I don't feel that way. The burden on the side of the state is clear. The numbers I told you are based on what we have at our disposal from the Treasury. But we must be even more or at least equally interested in the burden on the business side. And it's also very significant. Small salesman will come purchase of the simplest system registering at least 5700 crowns. But, of course, you have to add additional costs to this, to which the businessman must add annual operating costs, which can climb up to 30,000 extra costs per year, which include the costs of purchasing appropriate cash registers, printing office documents, quality internet connection, the costs of regularly updating the appropriate software, buying toner, paper, maintenance, or in some firms and training of employees. 30,000 a year are no small change for a small businessman and can pose a real threat. I don't know, I think the lady here is pointing at me with some kind of machine, but I'm sorry, I can't tell if it's a toy or a stamp or something, so I have to ignore it at this point. But no doubt, if we're discussing things here, you'll have the opportunity to come forward after me and make some arguments that question my words. I, through Madam President, apologize to Mr Komárek for not listening to him when he yells at me and ignore him because we have some rules of the game, and you can undoubtedly come out when you need to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u57	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. And I will ask my colleague Komárek not to scream from his place and disturb the lecturer in his speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u58	I can assure the lady, through you, of course, because she's a lady, I will clean up the mess she's making here. Otherwise, I'd leave it here. So please, 30,000 crowns a year, which you as easily question is not going to cost, it's just going to cost. Do the math. Up to 30,000 crowns a year for a small businessman, it's just not small money. And it can lead to what happened in Croatia, that a number of businessmen simply cease their activities. That's something that's definitely not possible to admit, and we're gonna do everything we can to make sure it doesn't happen, even if you don't care. It is also interesting to see what revenue the Ministry of Finance expects when all that money is put into it, the money of the state, the taxpayers' money, and the money of the businessmen and entrepreneurs that the Ministry expects. And here again, if we look at the materials that we have at our disposal, so if 600,000 people are involved, then the yield will be 10 to 12 billion. CZK, if 300,000 people are involved, which is, if I count correctly, half, that yield will be 10 to 12 billion again. Crowns. Well, that means one thing. It means that these numbers are based on water, that they are based on an estimate that is not based on any facts at all, and that they are essentially pointless. So, on the one hand, the government is putting together billions of investment when we project it into years to introduce an electronic record of sales, and it doesn't know how much money that system will actually bring, how much tax collection will be improved, how much will it cost based on how much this will be implemented, how much more will it cost. Finally, it must be said that the finance minister himself, who presents these figures, whose office is processing them, openly admits that in the case of electronic sales records these are preliminary estimates, I quote to Minister Babiš: "It is preliminary estimates and practice will show how accurate they were." Here, Minister of Finance Babiš, and I have no doubt that these are his words, because it is from an interview for the Lidové noviny of 12 October of this year, here Minister Babiš himself tells us that he does not really know how much it will bring, what it will mean for the state budget, but yet he is sure that we can put in -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u59	Ambassador, I'm sorry, it's 11:00. I'm forced to interrupt you at the moment. Of course, you will continue your speech after the vote, which is included at 11 o'clock. [[Members of the ODS are banging the benches]] I'm at this point--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u60	Madam Vice-President, I must say that I completely disagree with your decision, but I object to it, however -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u61	This is the House's decision. [[Again with the protest banging into the benches.]] I'll ask for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u62	Can't you just let me finish the sentence I want to tell you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u63	I'm sorry. It's 11:00. I am obliged to vote on the approval of the programme, which is included at 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u64	I think you're obligated to let me finish my speech. I don't know anywhere -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u65	I'm sorry. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. [[Scandalous banging on the bench.]] I am now opening the vote on the entire proposal for a 37th session of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 4, to which 128 are registered, for 93, against 9. The motion was accepted. I now ask Mr Fiala to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u66	You, Madam President, have prevented me from... I don't know what's funny about that, I find it kind of sad. And that you're having fun, I don't think you're gonna have any fun in the future. But it doesn't matter now. You, Madam President, have prevented me from objecting to the proceedings of the meeting that, contrary to the law, you have taken away from me the word I was entitled to. So I'm raising this objection now, but I have to say with sadness that I had the right to raise it the moment you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u67	At that point, I was obliged to take a vote. I did so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am opening the vote on your objection to the President's procedure and ask who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 6, to which 160 are registered, for 54, against 73. The motion was denied. I'm registering your application, Mr. Ambassador, but you're in line because there are other priority rights in front of you. Yes, it is. Please refer to Mr Bend's microphone, which is registered with priority rights. Yes, please. Mr. Gazdík surrenders, too. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u68	Madam President, don't be angry, that is not true, because if the agenda for the meeting was approved, you would have to open up the debate now. You didn't open the debate. Before opening the debate, I have signed up with my priority right, and I note that the debate is not yet open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u69	I agree with that, that's why priority rights are. That's why I called on all the logged in, including you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u70	Okay. I would therefore like to make it clear that we have a different view that, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, you have now approved the agenda for the meeting, but the debate on this programme is still not open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u71	I'm just pointing out that there is no discussion, because this is an emergency meeting, so you can only exercise the priority rights you have made. I have acted in accordance with the House's resolution, and there is nothing to add to that. I have complied with the Rules of Procedure, and I insist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u72	If the third reading is included and the House has just approved a agenda for a meeting where there is only one point and the only point is the third reading of the e-booking of sales law, then the third reading, as we are all sure to read in the Rules of Procedure, begins with the opening of the debate. Nothing like that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u73	After we've exhausted the priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u74	Okay. Let's not argue. Ladies and gentlemen, let me protest here about something I haven't remembered since I was in the Chamber of Deputies in 1998. When some of us who give priority to this have signed up to the agenda, because we know well that programmes of extraordinary meetings are sometimes approved and sometimes do not approve, and those reasons why they approve or do not approve, those who have priority rights usually lecture and communicate the views of their factions, why they support such an emergency meeting or do not support it. I was duly logged in with my priority right, and I was 100% sure that the arguments that I would make here would have led most of you not to approve this special meeting program. I was contrary to all the parliamentary principles, I was silenced in violation of the Rules of Procedure, I was not allowed to make these arguments, and we will certainly seek an appropriate remedy. I just want to remind you that I am convinced that I have been shortened today in my constitutional law by the legislator, who had the right to speak and had the right to address you with a request that you do not approve the agenda of the meeting. I didn't have that option. You voted before I had to make this request with these arguments to the Chamber of Deputies. I do not know how else this could be considered as an undemocratic silence and as a shortening of the legislature's legitimate constitutional rights. So let me tell you at least now what I wanted to tell you, why it is absurd for us not to approve the third reading at a proper meeting, in a proper legislative process, but at an extraordinary meeting, especially when it comes to an item that is on the agenda for a proper meeting, and instead of discussing it as an item of a proper meeting, you are calling an absolutely unsystemically and illogical meeting to discuss something that should be a routine legislative process at an emergency meeting. Let's see what an extraordinary meeting is for. An emergency meeting serves for the House to discuss an emergency situation. An extraordinary situation, which is mostly within the competence of the government, but it has become such a policy that it needs to be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution in order to turn to the government in some way, either to support it in its efforts, or to appeal to the Government to change its procedure. An example of such an extraordinary meeting is, for example, the 24th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which took place here on 12 December 2014 and concerned the emergency situation of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice. Discussion, and this merely shows the importance of the matter, no one else has opened the discussion and no one less than Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and said that he agreed with the members of the government whose competence is most affected by the fact that he will complete his speech for the government of the Czech Republic so that he will speak first. [[11.10 hours]] He informed us, and here you can understand that this is simply not a normal routine legislative process, he informed us that on 16 October 2014 there was a fire and explosion in warehouse building number 16 in the premises of the Military Technical Institute in the village of Vlachovice-Vrbětice and then on 3 December this year in the morning the explosion of another ammunition warehouse number 12 in this area occurred. The buildings are approximately one kilometer apart and are rented -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u75	Ambassador, I am very sorry, don't take it that I limit your rights, on the contrary, I think you deserve to be quiet in the House. I will ask my colleagues to do so in the lobby if they are discussing. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u76	Thank you. You were very kind. The buildings are approximately one kilometer apart and are rented to the same private company. It is therefore ammunition warehouses, said the Prime Minister, which are operated in a building belonging to the Military Technical Institute, which is a state enterprise established by the Ministry of Defence. The ammunition stored in these warehouses under contract is owned by a private company. The contract on the basis of which the ammunition was stored in these premises was concluded between this private company and the Military Technical Institute in 2011. Thus, since 2011, a contractual relationship started, on the basis of which these buildings were leased and on the basis of which ammunition was stored in these buildings. As a result of these events described by the Prime Minister, the components of the integrated rescue system have been exposed to a unique situation that is difficult to compare with any other event we have had in the Czech Republic in the last few decades or in the former Czechoslovakia. Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and the army solve this situation with the maximum deployment of personal and technical capacities. The hit on the site itself is solved at the highest special level of alarm. At the local, tactical level, the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the Czech Republic is the commander of the intervention and coordination of the emergency solution is ensured by the Governor and since 26 November, as the Prime Minister informed us at the time, the Ministry of Interior ensures the central coordination of rescue and liquidation work, in particular the coordination of the activities of central administrative offices. The aim of the state's progress is to eliminate any risks to the safety of persons, their health, their lives and, of course, to eliminate risks to their property. The absolute priority of the state in this context is therefore the safety of persons. In the Prime Minister's view, the current course of action can be assessed as professional and consistent with the requirements laid down by the law on an integrated rescue system. In this context, the Prime Minister appreciated the work of pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic services of the Police of the Czech Republic, who carry out the necessary tasks every day in the middle of the minefield. He said that the work of these people is extremely demanding, they are those who actually have to deal with this difficult situation in a given place, they have to make decisions to prevent damage to human health and human property. These people must be greatly thanked for their commitment and bravery. At the same time, the matter is under investigation by the Police of the Czech Republic. At that extraordinary meeting, the Prime Minister also promised us that, as soon as the real circumstances on the ground allowed, the remaining ammunition would be carried out to customers in other stores of owners. He liked to emphasize that. The primary point is that the ammunition is taken away by those who own it, who stored it in these objects, and also whether it is ready to transport ammunition to reactivated ammunition warehouses of the Ministry of Defence in Květná. Warehouses in May are then secured in accordance with military standards, security was ensured by members of the Army of the Czech Republic and also the presence of a separate fire protection unit was ensured. It is necessary to draw conclusions for future government procedures and for future changes, which are necessary in particular in the field of legislation, from the experience of addressing the situation and analysing it. These are amendments to the legislation governing the handling of ammunition in our country. There are currently several legal regimes that are not sufficiently linked to this area. Each of these laws also provides for a different form of control for entities handling ammunition. The mutual coordination of the supervisory authorities is rather weak in the state. In my view, shortcomings can also be seen in the fact that, in all relevant legislation, ammunition is dealt with rather by supplemental and applicable provisions do not often take into account the essential safety characteristics of the handling of ammunition. Since the beginning of the events that took place on 16 October, the government has given us special attention at this truly justified emergency meeting in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. He repeatedly addressed this issue on the basis of a proposal by the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence. Every time and at a time when the government was asked to decide on the procedure, such as the deployment of members of the Army of the Czech Republic, the government immediately complied with these proposals. The issue of the situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice was also addressed in addition to the government meeting of the extraordinary meeting of the Bureau of the Security Council of the State, which took place in Slavicín. Following the recommendation of the extraordinary Bureau of the Security Council of the State, the government decided to significantly strengthen the deployment of members and funds of the Army of the Czech Republic in the locality. At the same time, in addition to addressing this crisis situation, the government also focused on analysing the rule of law and on preparing clear, concrete measures, which will not only concern Vlachovic-Vrbětice, but will concern the whole Czech Republic and how the state progresses and acts in the field of ammunition management. A revision of legislation is absolutely necessary; a strengthening of the control system is absolutely necessary. These specific recommendations will be addressed in the meeting of the Security Council of the State, which met on 22 December last year. I assume that this meeting has produced concrete recommendations for the procedure of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Industry and Trade and will have the task of proposing appropriate legislative changes in a short time. The aim of the Prime Minister, as he informed us here, was not only to ensure that this crisis situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice is resolved safely, but also to guarantee citizens that 2015 will be a year that we will use for all necessary legislative changes. He asked us, i.e. the Chamber of Deputies, as soon as it was possible for those proposals to be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies to receive support and for the legislation and its amendments to be approved as soon as possible. [[11.20 hours]] But it was far from just legislation. It was also about the state being able to physically exercise control of the handling of ammunition in the Czech Republic. It was also about procedures that are elected to permit the trading of ammunition not only in the Czech Republic but also from the Czech Republic abroad. The Prime Minister was very concerned about the information he received about the reductions that took place in the relevant department of the Police of the Czech Republic, which is in charge of controlling ammunition in our country, the control of the ammunition that is in the hands of private entities. The competent police department in charge of this matter has been reduced by 30 percent in recent years. By 30%, its personnel capacity was reduced, and it was evident that the scope of the activity had not decreased and the scope of the trafficking of ammunition and this material in the Czech Republic had not decreased. Despite this, in recent years, this special police force has been significantly reduced in this way. Then we can't be surprised, the Prime Minister here explained that there may not be enough control frequencies, and if we want to strengthen the frequency of controls, increase its quality, then it is obvious that the government will also have to deal with whether we have sufficient personnel capacity for this. From the outset, the Prime Minister rejected any competence ping-pong between individual state institutions. At the time of the explosion on 16 October, he noted a debate about who was actually responsible for checking who was the owner of the building, what the role of individual state institutions should be. I think that what we need now is the maximum possible level of cooperation between all the State actors who are competent in this area. Firstly, it is a necessary degree of cooperation in the removal of this crisis situation between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the municipalities concerned and the Zlín Region, in the second stage of cooperation between the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Industry, the Báňská Office and other competent institutions in the reconstruction and improvement of the system for controlling the handling of ammunition and explosives in the territory of the Czech Republic. So, at this point, we need clear cooperation, not misrepresentation of responsibility, not alibism, and I believe that there will certainly also be an opportunity, undoubtedly also on the basis of the results of the police investigation that is ongoing, to return to the issues of responsibility for creating the condition that occurred in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. Again, the Prime Minister reminded at an emergency meeting that these are contractual relationships that were established between the State and private entities in particular in 2011, in some cases even earlier, and even here it is necessary to assess whether this was a happy state policy that the state owned buildings were leased to private firms that are trading and handling ammunition. He felt that it really was wrong that in Vlachovice-Vrbětice without any consideration and from the point of view of crisis planning the state created such a strong concentration of ammunition with which they are entitled to dispose of private entities. In his view, the state did not get into a good situation and this is confirmed by the crisis that occurred after these explosions occurred. The Prime Minister thanked again not only the members of the integrated rescue system, police officers, firefighters, soldiers, but also the citizens of the surrounding municipalities for their understanding, because security measures were needed to protect their lives and health. Unfortunately, the security measure included temporary evacuation, but he was convinced that the Police of the Czech Republic could not act differently at the time when it had information that the municipalities concerned could possibly be threatened could be affected. He therefore also wanted to thank the citizens of the municipalities concerned for their understanding. He has promised that the government will do everything we can to resolve this crisis in a safe, reliable way, and as soon as possible from a safety point of view, to start the removal of ammunition from this area. The Prime Minister informed us at this extraordinary meeting that he had the opportunity to visit these places twice in recent weeks. Of course, what interests citizens is a matter of security. Citizens are interested in how quickly the state will be able to eliminate the risks, especially by removing ammunition from this area. But what interests citizens in these municipalities is also the future fate of this entire state property, which means the premises in Vlachovice-Vrbětice, which is now owned by the Military Technical Institute. The Prime Minister expressed his conviction that he considered it necessary for the period of remediation to be carried out and, of course, the question of how long the bailout will take, so it is absolutely essential that this property remain in the hands of the state and, after the bailout is completed, that the government may hold a dialogue with the municipalities concerned, have a dialogue with the region on the future use of this state property. Its future use and treatment should be implemented in such a way that it has a full understanding of the population of the municipalities concerned. I think, and the Prime Minister thought at the time that these people deserved it because of what they were exposed to, starting on 16 October this year, and he deserves to be sure that the government would not treat this property as their back, that the future use of this property would consult them and that the property would not be privatised or treated in such a way that any risks could arise there for the safety of citizens in the future. So briefly, the Prime Minister said at an emergency meeting that had a real reason to be convened, when the House had a legitimate reason to convene an emergency meeting. He has promised that the government will address these issues, will also address them systemically in the form of appropriate changes in legislation, rules and resetting of the control system. He then gave the word to the Interior Minister, who supplemented his information at the same emergency meeting in roughly this way. The Home Secretary said it's been talking for a long time and he's speculating about how big the compound is. The area is 10 km long. It is a huge area in which there are 50 objects, most of them have a range of 500 to 1000 square meters, and in 27 of these objects were stored ammo. The Interior Minister argued towards the Chamber of Deputies at this extraordinary meeting that there were various hunts and there were some races, even car races and others, so when he asked the Police of the Czech Republic, because those who were talking about it, that it was there, and he had no reason to doubt it, and informed us that he had been there at least twice in the last time and saw some photos of at least those races, so he asked the Police of the Czech Republic how many incentives were filed there in the past, or criminal announcements that these things were happening there. Because if there were full ammunition warehouses, the Home Secretary said, and cars were running around, he assumed someone would file a criminal report or a complaint. However, according to what the police have given him, no criminal complaint or complaint has been filed in the last five years by the Police of the Czech Republic. That's what the Home Secretary said was facts. He can't speculate about what is or isn't true. These are the facts he can talk about. [[11.30 hours]] Even the Home Secretary thanked the integrated rescue system's components. First of all, he thanked the police, their bomb squad. He was there with them at eight o'clock this morning when they left to remove the grenade from the roof, and he had to say that they were great professionals who argued with each other not about who would go there, but about who wouldn't go there. Everyone wanted to go. The Home Secretary also wanted to thank the firefighters. They had a special unit from Noise, Zbiroh. He meets these firefighters all over the Czech Republic when there is a problem, whether it be floods, whether it be landslide in South Moravia, let it be the situation they are now experiencing in Vrbetice. The Minister of the Interior made the assumption that both the Vice-President and the Mayor would confirm that all the citizens with whom he might have met have said a great thank you both to the police and to the firefighters. The Minister of the Interior took to such an extent a collegial step to thank the military as well. The army is currently involved in the enforcement of the police and is involved in this on the basis of the resolution of the Czech Government and at the request of the police. Of course, he also addressed thanks to the Army of the Czech Republic. After the second explosion - and on 24 November, the crime was re-qualified as a deliberate offense - the Police Presidium subsequently expanded the investigation team under the supervision of the regional prosecutor and the investigation took over the Police Presidium. This enabled the deployment of specialized components such as ÚOOZ, and the current investigation is conducted by the Regional Exposition of the ÚOOZ in Ostrava, as the Minister of the Interior informed us at this extraordinary meeting. He also wanted to set some figures straight. Police of the Czech Republic record about 3,000 subjects under which they control. 2,112 entities shall be licensed for so-called weapons purposes or arms licences of all groups. Only 21 entities in the Czech Republic operate warehouses this large. These warehouses are 28. Subsequently, after the first explosion, in agreement with the Prime Minister and in agreement with the Government, the Minister of Interior ordered the Czech Police to carry out random checks especially on these large operators of these warehouses. 18 inspections were carried out, 17 working teams were assigned to this. In the report submitted by the Home Secretary that morning, four of these subjects were found. He could not specify which ones, because, of course, there was an attempt to initiate an administrative procedure that was not public, so there was merely an indication of the error that was recorded so that we could be informed that this was not an error of a fundamental nature that threatened the environment and the safety of the population. Nevertheless, these checks have been carried out and are still carried out. Police of the Czech Republic, which together with the Mining Authority, which controls explosives, especially industrial ones, and is a big question of vagueness of interpretation of Czech law, said the Minister of the Interior, that if the dust spills from the mine or from the artillery charge, whether it becomes explosive at that moment or is still military material, and that is one of the reasons why the Minister of the Interior proposes to refine legislation, so also in the building in Vrbetice in several areas or several buildings the Mining Office had its supervision. He expressed his conviction that we needed to synchronize this supervision so that both the Mining Authority and the police, as well as the army, which supervises some special explosives, so that there were some synergy effects of joint control and common approach. Of course, the Police of the Czech Republic also participated in the fire rescue corps. The license for granting foreign export companies is in the administration of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is talking to the security forces of the state for granting these licences, whether it be the police, whether it be our secret services, of course it asks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and asks other relevant elements, which are listed by the law. On this basis, the companies will then receive or not receive an export licence. Above all, there is a crucial position in our targeting of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that we do not export this ammunition to countries where it is not in the interest of the Czech State. In essence, the Home Secretary expressed his willingness to answer our questions right here on the spot. But before that, he wanted to comment on some media statements. For example, a statement that they should have asked for military bomb squads. Well, we couldn't, the Home Secretary said. Although the matter was seriously discussed, given that it was a crime scene, only police and police bomb squads had to move to this place at the moment. If they didn't want to ruin the investigation, and they certainly didn't want to, the presence of military specialists wasn't possible. In agreement with Mr. Defense Minister Stropnický, whom the Minister of the Interior called exclusively colleague Stropnický, the moment the investigation is completed and this area will be cleaned, and will be cleaned for several years, the army will, of course, ask for assistance from the police. The question, however, is that the government should prioritize or increase the number of pyrotechnics, because they are still in the process of decontamination of Brd and some other areas within the Czech Republic. At least the Home Secretary knew one more place in South Moravia, which also needs decontamination. And the question is to what extent it will have to strengthen the bombing service. That means how he confirmed once again that the military specialists couldn't be used. If he didn't want to mess up the investigation, he simply couldn't use it. Another media output, which the Home Secretary tried to disprove at our emergency meeting, was that evacuations were unnecessary. The Home Secretary said it's easier to talk about from the safety of the living room, and otherwise it's with the bomb squads on the scene. Evacuation is decided by bomb squads on the spot who know the situation, assess the risks - the risk of fire, the risk of others associated with this matter. In both of these evacuations, it was about the perimeter being set at 1.2 km. Both villages were in this perimeter and had to be evacuated. If bomb squads are not sure on site and these are the seven and nine-day periods, they ask for help and opinion from the so-called bomb squad. In this pyrotechnic committee there are specialists across the police who specialize in pyrotechnical specializations. I remember here that the Minister of the Interior was silent, and I still did not understand why several ČSSD Members laughed, but it was a powerful experience from the extraordinary meeting that we were experiencing. He also wondered and asked us what we saw funny about it. [[11.40 hours]] Pyrotechnic specializations deal with bomb squads on site and there decide how to approach the matter. In both cases, i.e. in determining seven and nine days of so-called non-image period, this bomb squad, this bomb squad, met on this issue. It wasn't the will of the strike commander, but it was the expert opinion that went through there. The Minister of the Interior also commented on some information that the information was not submitted on time and precision. He was supposedly saving that information like a saffron because he didn't want to make the situation unsettling itself. The information given by the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, claimed the information, handed it to him that day and at that time the crisis team met and it was telemoste from Prague and Zlín, after the second explosion, to clarify the situation when at four o'clock in the afternoon we were able to confirm that the second warehouse had exploded after the take-off of the military helicopter. Until then, both the Police of the Czech Republic and the commander of the intervention, the fire rescue corps declared that it was an explosion from the site of the original explosion, so it was not another subject. That's the only misinformation that leaked into the media space. The Home Secretary apologized for her, but at the time, he didn't have any information in his mind that it would have been any different. Only at 16 p.m., when the military helicopter took off and the drone wasn't available, did they find another warehouse on fire that blew up. That's the only misinformation or inaccurate information that came out here. He recalled once again that the Prime Minister received this information from the Police of the Czech Republic by his own means. Again, I would like to stress that the real importance of the extraordinary meeting and the reason for its call in this case was also illustrated by the fact that Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický also spoke after the Prime Minister and after the Minister of the Interior. Minister of Defense Martin Stropnickýý then here - and you listened to him much more carefully than I did, but of course he also had a much better presentation with his trained acting voice - that the explosion of one of the objects located in the area of Vrbětice, on 16 October this year was, and maybe it is a bit forgotten, but first of all also a tragic event for the two employees of the Imex Group and their closest. [[He said,]] Whether it was an unbelievable coincidence or a semi-accident, or someone's evil intent, or whether there are other causes, this will clearly respond to a police investigation. According to the information the Minister of Defence had, mostly from those open sources, the police have several options, several ways in which he conducts the investigation. So he appealed to us to give the police time, and we granted him. If he spoke of media space, besides where he is positive and people receive the necessary information in real time, unfortunately, in many cases there is also room for incredible speculation and, in some cases, pure untruths. Some of them, claimed by the Minister of Defence, damaged the good name of the Ministry of Defence and especially the Army of the Czech Republic. It's not fair, he claimed, especially in the light of how military personnel, as well as the Ministry of Defence, approach to solving something they didn't do. And of course, the Minister of Defence, as well as his previous speakers, welcomed the opportunity to speak on this subject at an emergency meeting. There was no other option but to convene an emergency meeting. Unlike the third reading of the electronic record of sales, which we could discuss in the ordinary legislative regime as a properly classified item. He said he'd like us to clear up one term. In public space it is still possible to register the phrase "army" or "military" warehouse. I understand, the Secretary of Defense said what a media shortcut was, but that's just not true. The warehouse in Vrbetice has had nothing to do with the Army of the Czech Republic since 2007, i.e. many years. For seven years, all the competent authorities of both government and self-government, but also local residents - because the warehouses were one of the largest employers in the region between 2008 and 2011, there was a demolition of ammunition - they were known that there was no army but companies with different legal personality: state enterprise, joint stock companies, s.r.o. etc. The Military Technical Institute, which, as it may already be clear and known, is a state enterprise, i.e. a legal entity fully responsible for its activities, currently has this state property in its administration. He has his duties in Vrbětice, he has his powers in Vrbětice, and they have their limits. In short, the Minister of Defence gave us a brief genesis of the entire case. The army ammunition warehouse was built in 1936. It was completed during the occupation by the German army. From 1945 until 2006 it was used by the Czechoslovak army and then by the Czech army. The decision to terminate the need was made for Minister Jiří šedivý and the transfer to Military Repair Company for Minister Vlasta Parkanová. Since 2007, the premises have been used by the military repair company Šternberk to delabor the unnecessary ammunition of the Army of the Czech Republic. At that time he was one of the most important employers in the region and gradually, as the buildings of warehouses were emptied, they were rented out to external entities. Currently valid lease agreements with commercial entities were presented to us by the Minister of Defence as follows: the company Bochemie, the contract from 2009, and then three contracts from 2011 in the case of Imex Group, Excalibur Army and STV Group. In 2012 there was transfer of the premises from the VOP to the Military Technical Institute of Military ammunition Slavičín, or division of the Military Technical Institute directly in Slavičín. He used to make ammo on the premises, and he also stored it. All tenants who stored ammunition in individual buildings are holders of a license for the handling of weapons and ammunition, and, as has been said and known, the license is issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the provision of appropriate benefits to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Defence. Compliance with these licenses is then controlled by the Police of the Czech Republic and the Czech Mining Authority, if it concerns explosives in the latter case. There are 61 objects in total and they think there are 26 of them that are used to store ammunition and explosives. Madam President, not that I would insist on the attention my colleagues have given me, I do not think that they must, but perhaps when we are more focused, that we will be doing better. Therefore, I would like to propose that we interrupt our emergency meeting by 1. 9. 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u77	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. I'm registering your proposal. Since this is a procedural proposal, we will vote on it without debate. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Only for the screen recording, with a replacement card number 6 is Mr Vondráček voting today. And at this point, I am opening the vote on the proposal tabled, i.e. adjournment of today's meeting. Ambassador, isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u78	Yes, to 1. 9. 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u79	Thank you for the addition and I am opening the vote. I ask who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 7, to which 124 are registered, for 23, against 75. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u80	It was a fair try, hopefully we'll get a better score next time. What the defense department did after the explosion. The first information that went to all the components of the integrated rescue system was received at 9.51 on Thursday, October 16. Followed by the intervention of professional and subsequently voluntary firefighters, which was interrupted at the increasing intensity of explosions. A representative of the Military Technical Institute arrived immediately after the explosion, an officer of the Military Fire Control and Military Police from their centre in Olomouc also arrived an hour after the explosion. The company subsequently provided equipment, materials, personnel, premises, food, fuel and participated in rescue work as required by the IZS. Among other things, he deployed an unmanned drone that was quite an essential helper in detecting the extent of damage and damage to individual objects. By the way, the Military Technical Institute is still paying a significant proportion of the costs associated with the intervention of all the components from its budget. Interesting is it, and perhaps it is one of those surprising circumstances, by the way, which they are creating - but it has already been mentioned here, as the Minister of Defence said, Prime Minister - an incredible accumulation of various laws and regulations and other circumstances, which in some way affect the events and in the event of the accident in a fundamental way affect the various steps and create a pretty inconspicuous and transparent sort of playground for what is to be held. It is as if someone almost purposely wants to create something dysfunctional and, on the one hand, complementary, on the other hand, seemingly even contradictory. That's certainly one of the lessons to be learned from this whole unfortunate incident. So the Military Technical Institute as a state enterprise under the Ministry of Defence, respectively. established by the Ministry of Defence, still subject to military fire control. If we just take this one aspect, then the whole area, or the buildings used by the Military Technical Institute, works in military fire control. All buildings rented to private entities then work, let's say, in civilian fire control. And there are a number of parallel standards that govern traffic on the premises. Even the reporting obligation has an integrated rescue system, neither the VTÚ nor the tenants on the premises have it unless they store highly dangerous, meaning flammable material, which paradoxically is not ammunition. With another peculiarity, the Minister of Defence introduced us to an aspect of misleading circumstances. Another peculiarity, say, or misleading circumstance. The obligation of these operators under the Fire Protection Act is to process the required fire protection documentation. That's what individual subjects are supposed to do, not landlords. He didn't tell us this as a comprehensive explanation, and it really exhausted many of us at the time, but only as an example of how a thing that isn't that complicated can be called difficult again. The Minister of Defence, with full seriousness and authority, argued that the military responded to the demands and to the situation promptly and, of course, friendlyly, in proportion to the fact that the situation was serious. And so, of course, until now. They responded to all requests for assistance from the commander of the intervention with speed, as was physically possible. In favour of handling the situation, they have allocated highly qualified personnel, up to 500 members of the army, and this is also taking place in these days, but also the best technology, mobile command post, pandura with thermovision, night vision and camera system, which these soldiers have in the armament and which will significantly increase the security of securing the area, which is not a physical force possible to implement. Since 16 October - and the Minister of Defence has repeatedly repeated in this case - the entire area and all events within it are outside the Ministry of Defence or the Military Technical Institute. The defense provided only maximum synergies. Police, virtually. The government decided to move ammunition and the Ministry of Defence in the required and thus very short term ensured the technical operation of the already preserved ammunition warehouse in Květná. That term was the 13th. At 24.00 in May, Military Police started patrolling. Bureau of the Security Council of the State on 6. 12. It also decided to set up an inter-ministerial team on legal issues related to solving this emergency. The Minister of Defence has appointed the specific person who provided and, on the spot, these questions. The Minister of Defence also expressed concern that the topic was terribly broad and that he therefore apologized to all those who did not find answers to his questions but were prepared to answer them subsequently, and he also fulfilled his words. His only subjective feeling that the ambiguity of legal standards and regulations, whether it be fire protection, control of the handling of ammunition, perhaps also licensing or supervision of licences, but also the transport of this material, all this is a great and necessary opportunity to see how it works in the Czech Republic in this sector, and undoubtedly propose some positive changes in this regard. So notice, ladies and gentlemen! The Prime Minister spoke, the Minister of the Interior spoke, the Minister of Defence spoke, and we allowed Mayor Vlachovice-Vrbětice Zdeněk Hověžák to speak because it was an emergency situation that needed an emergency meeting. He appreciated it and told us about this: He stressed that he did not want to politicize the events of the last days. After the first explosion on October 16th, everyone was scared. However, they believed that the state had things under control. The risk of repeating tragedy, along with fellow mayors from the surrounding area, was tried to prevent it. They therefore called on Mr Stropnický to know what really happened the second day after the first explosion of Mr Stropnický's defense minister. The scarier thing was that it happened again. The second explosion came from the compound, which had an impact on the citizens even worse. [[12.00 hours]] The premises were completely secured in the following days, but the ammunition was not taken away. The mayor emphasized that in recent weeks all citizens have had a difficult time. Instead of preparing Christmas, they felt fear for families and their homes. The mayor said he doesn't want to lecture any of us here. However, he asked us to think together about how this situation occurred and what mistakes the state made in resolving it. He reminded us that the ammunition in the state's property stores was stored by private companies. However, this does not relieve the State of its obligation to ensure the protection of life, health and property of our citizens. The Mayor was convinced of these events that there must be clear rules for State action in similar cases. In addition, strict rules must be laid down for the operation of such objects, which must also be complied with unconditionally by private entities, and the State must actively control and enforce compliance with these rules. Next time, you can't wait for an explosion and then be caught off guard. No more attention. Madam President, I would like to put forward a procedural proposal - the interruption of this meeting until 2 September 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u81	It is Mr President. We switched here in the meantime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u82	Sorry, I'm sorry, Mr President, until September 2, 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u83	Yes, I'm registering procedural proposal 2. 9. 2016. I'll call all my colleagues from the lobby and register the application for check-out. So I'm gonna pull you all out. A new registration, please. So we're going to vote. President Kalousek proposes to interrupt this meeting by 2. 9. 2016. I'm opening the vote and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 8, registered is 101, for 15, versus 65. This proposal has not been adopted. Please, Mr. Chairman, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u84	The trend is clearly declining. If anyone wants to eat lunch, I promise I won't do it in 13 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u85	I'm asking for peace in the House. Please deal with any complaints with the Prime Minister after he performs. I ask for peace, if necessary, to transfer your discussions to the lobby, and the President may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u86	The mayor has therefore asked us to ensure an objective, careful and rapid investigation of this crime. What he came to ask for, he explained to us. To ban all leases in storage, to temporarily secure ammunition by the state, to be demolished and taken away. He also wanted to clarify what particular ammunition was actually found in the warehouses. Of course, he wanted all the ammunition to be taken best by Christmas, but he understood that given the high date, this was not possible. Thus, the holidays, he feared, experienced the citizens of the community in fear, and there is no doubt that citizens deserve an apology. He therefore welcomed the words of the Minister of Finance that compensation belongs to the citizens of the municipalities concerned. I do not want to panic, the mayor stressed, but he asked on behalf of our citizens to prevent such tragedies. This means a clear security concept of the State as well as of the storage of ammunition, a transparent legal basis, compliance with and enforcement of the rules laid down, effective control by the national authorities responsible and punishment of the culprits in the event of misconduct. He begged us to consider it something that could be called a Vlachovická call or a memento from Vlachovic, which should never be repeated again or ever again. He expressed his readiness with his fellow mayors from the surrounding communities with the state, government, but also with us, members of parliament, to cooperate as much as possible so that something like this could never happen again. It was nice to all of us that the mayor thanked all members of the integrated rescue system as sincerely as possible and thus gave us feedback on how it worked in the field. That these speeches have given rise to quite a lively response, and that the convening of an extraordinary meeting was quite appropriate - unlike your reason today - then some of you ladies and gentlemen's reactions prove. Mr Zdeněk Soukup, for example, was the first to debate to tell us that he was also one of those who received a letter in the mail, and in this case certain citizens from Vrbětice. He quoted two things to us and asked for an answer. In addition to the smiling story about testing racing cars, it is shocking that foreign buyers from risk destinations and with the assistance of temps who were opening their boxes were picking up goods along the premises. He asked Mr Soukup if it was true. And he asked another question about the fact that directly from the Military Technical Institute, information was leaked that the territory was threatened within 50 kilometers of the explosion. To this day, Mr Soukup said the information about 50 SS-20 missiles or ground-to-air missiles has not been illuminated. Such questions fall at an emergency meeting, and therefore it is also necessary to convene extraordinary meetings for these matters. Mr Koskuba has warned us that we will certainly hear many interesting words, perhaps even touching words, but his, as he assures us, no one will convince us that the main core of the poodle is really in what the mayor has indicated, namely that private companies take care of such serious ammunition or such sensitive material. He said exactly, I don't want to touch it, but now I quote Mr Koskuba, saying, "I'd hate to look like a socan who wants to nationalize everything." However, he said there was also something serious enough to convene an extraordinary meeting, where the honourable House of Parliament of the Czech Republic wonders or wonders and adopts a resolution that we live in a country where private companies take care of such dangerous ammunition, and we are here discussing the laws that we allow to buy a flovert and who does not. When I think about it, it's a pretty rusty painting. Mrs Černochová looked at the problem from another side. She said she was also the mayor of the city district, which has a number of risky objects in its territory, especially the river Vltava and the brook Botič. For your information, who does not know, Mrs Černochová is the mayor of Prague 2, Vinohrady. And without this card - and please remember that she showed it to us like this and said, without this card she doesn't even go on vacation, she doesn't even go into the woods. [[shows an imaginary card]] Just this card, which deals with crisis management when something happens and all the contact details and phone numbers are on it, assured us that the mayor and the MP still carry with them. [[12.10 hours]] The response of the management of the Zlín Region thus shows signs of unpreparedness to a similar situation. Of course, it is an event that we have never faced in modern history, and there is no experience. However, the fact that there is a hazardous material warehouse in the territory of the Zlín Region is certainly not new, and it is therefore appropriate to ask whether and to what extent the regional crisis plan envisaged this fact and the related risks. Mr Mišák's meeting and some comments suggest that the region's readiness for such a situation was very small, Mrs Černochová expressed her conviction. This is striking, in particular, given the fact that the Governor is not a rookie in his capacity, but has been the Governor for six years. He is therefore the longest-serving commander of the Zlín Region. Mr. hejtman Mišák, for example, had no idea that the ammunition warehouse at Vrbětic was long gone from the army and that it should therefore be included in the regional crisis plan. So perhaps in response to what Minister Chovanec also said - if this were included in the regional crisis plan, so would you, as Minister of the Interior, out of your jurisdiction, specifically Act No. 240/2000 Coll., the honourable Member has estimated that this is § 10 para. 1 c) where there is a clear definition of what the Ministry of Interior is supposed to control and enforce on the authorities and regions. I am literally quoting: "The Ministry of the Interior carries out control of ensuring the readiness of other ministries and other central authorities or administrations to deal with crisis situations and, in cooperation with the relevant Ministry, carries out control of regional crisis plans'. She wanted to ask, Madame Minister Chovanec, how often the Ministry of the Interior applies its legal competence, how often it controls regional crisis plans and what possible improvements, if not done, the Minister will propose, or what responsibility and responsibility the Minister will take for not doing so. If there were a state of crisis or at least a state of danger, it would be possible to express the conviction of the Member, perhaps practically immediately involve the members of the Army of the Czech Republic in the security area or for other purposes, and we did not have to witness the Filipik between the interior and the defense, when the Minister of Defence Stropnický offered his bomb squad and the Minister of Interior refused them with the fact that it was a crime scene and that they therefore did not have the authority. In case...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u87	I beg the left side of the hall for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u88	If the captain hadn't failed, in this case, she meant Captain Mišák, there wouldn't be a problem. The army could normally have been there from day one, and not that it's really happening now, and still limited, even after two months. It was also interested in Mrs Černochová, whether Mr. Governor Mišák called the Security Council of the Region. As mayor, she's informed us that she's been summoned twice a year. They'll always meet the new fire chief, there's the relevant police director for the area, that's two in her case, there's another deputy in crisis management, and they're telling each other new information. They tell themselves, for example, that for example, we have an icy surface somewhere, and they can get into the problem of escaping ammonia from this area. Once we're ready, we'll evacuate the people. This is all the role of self-government, which is why we have self-government, and that is why, according to Mrs Černochová, people choose self-government. According to the Governor, he argued that declaring a crisis situation would result in a multi-track procedure, as the mayors of the municipalities concerned would allegedly be in the position of the authorities responsible and would decide on the progress of their work on their territory. According to his statement, the extraordinaryness of this situation required that the intervention should have a single professional commander, decisive of all procedures. But if these claims were absolutely valid, then the state of danger and crisis could never be declared at all, even in floods. On the whole matter, the lady was most impressed, and she shared with us the feeling that criticism of the leadership of the Zlín Region sounds primarily from the mouth of some members of the government. If hetman Mišák failed, why didn't the government act faster, and why didn't the government itself exert pressure on the leadership of the Zlín Region, on a party colleague, i.e. the Governor Mišák, to declare the crisis? And she has expressed speculation here that this is not a solution to intra-party disputes. Even such considerations may occur at an emergency meeting, but certainly not at a meeting where a third reading of the law of a regulatory nature is to be discussed. The representation and statements of the various members of the government were not very pleased with Mrs Černochová. They reminded her of throwing the proverbial hot potato. In particular, in view of the scale of this tragedy and the threat faced by local citizens, this action was considered to be truly inappropriate. He even considered it ridiculous that some of the government members, instead of trying to resolve this situation, had the need only to defend themselves, such as the Prime Minister, and to relieve their fellow party members of responsibility. She believed that it was clear that the culprit of the situation arose to secure the ammunition warehouse and its surroundings so that local residents were no longer in danger to clear the premises as much as possible. She found each other's accusations among the members of the government really absurd. Enough has been said about the revision of legislation and other crisis regulations according to it. However, it considered it important that the event of the past days and weeks should be analysed as soon as possible and that the relevant legislation and other related regulations should be revised in order to prevent such tragedies in the future. She recommended to the ministers, especially Minister Chovanc, but also to the Prime Minister, such as she said, a nice reading for the weekend. In this law, both the Prime Minister and the Minister - expressed their conviction - will read how the situation should have been followed and how the situation should have been dealt with immediately from the first day. She stressed how terribly sorry she was that the Minister of Government of Babiš was not here. Perhaps we should really remind ourselves that this was an extraordinary meeting where the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the Home Secretary, and Babiš weren't here. Now we have an emergency meeting, and Babiš isn't here again. [[Screaming from the O.R. He went to lunch.]] [[12.20 hours]] In no way did IMEX Group want to reduce its share of responsibility on this matter or in any way express its confidence in its credibility. Those were things the police have to investigate properly. However, it is not really understandable for Minister Babiš to comment on whether the owner will visit his business or not. The creation of any conspiracy stories from this relatively common reality is indeed bordering on the spread of alarm messages, and Mrs Černochová was convinced that Minister Babiš does not realize that he is a member of a government that should certainly not develop or spread such rumors. Making any conclusions on the background of Imex Group, whether or not the Ministry of Defence should rent warehouses to this company, whether or not this company has traded legally, is not really the role of a member of the government, but it is the role of law enforcement authorities. The honourable Member has expressed a lack of understanding of what kind of speculation Mr Babiš actually creates and expands and de facto makes it difficult for the police to do so. She had one more, last and imploring request in her speech, to the Minister of the Stropnický. She approached him on the assumption that he knew the content of the contracts he had concluded with the state-owned company and that the Minister had already checked and found out if there was something mysterious, wrong in them, as his party colleague Mr Babiš suggests. After all, nearly two months have passed since the explosions, so perhaps enough time has passed, and the Member did not assume that these lease agreements were somehow fundamentally complex and complex. She therefore asked who, under these contracts, was responsible for ammunition warehouses and for securing them. Were they firms, or was it the Military Technical Institute? Her next question was whether there was an insurance policy to pay for the damage. Next question, who was in charge of security control. In part, the Minister has already answered this question. She just asked me to repeat whether it was the police or the state business or the relevant companies. The honourable Member was aware that it wasn't over yet...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u89	I am sorry, but I will warn Mr Jandák that it is not possible to make a factual point because we are not at any point, we are not having a debate, President Kalousek is merely exercising his right of priority. [[Mr Jandak's response from the ballroom.]] Please don't discuss outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u90	Through the President, I apologize to my colleague Jandák. As much as I'd like to let him go, I can't. Mrs Černochová told us that she realized that the investigation was not over and that the ministers would not be able to answer all the questions. Nevertheless, she asked him to answer at least those relating to leases because there is nothing secret about them. She said that she knew that there was a Law 106 on free access to information, and therefore she did not think that contracts, where on the one hand there was an organisation representing the state to a certain extent and concluding a standard lease relationship, would be the subject of some secrecy, and she thought that if these contracts had been declassified, that a number of different speculations by her government colleagues would have been concluded. Mr Petr Kořenek was much more brief than the Member, and he turned to Mrs Černochová and asked her: Madam, why didn't you tell everyone that it was your governments since 2007 that concluded these contracts in 2011? And when he asked so directly, I remember that all the Members of Social Democracy and the Communist Party also applauded him loudly. Why didn't you tell these people that this government was just pulling hot chestnuts out of the fire, that the region was solving problems that right-wing governments caused? You are very happy to point out what this government is doing and how it is doing it, but you are forgetting the mess that you have caused over the years you have caused, Mr. Kořenek said, and again the left part of the hall applauded. [[There's a timid applause from the individual.]] You guys were clapping a lot more tempestuously back then. A completely different view was given by Mr Karel Fiedler. He wanted to mention Act No.59/2006 Coll., which will clearly explain a number of things. Here, Mr. Karel Fiedler said, we are witnessing an argument as to whether it is a military object or whether it is a private object. Minister Stropnický, Mr Fiedler said, it has been said that since 2007 the building has been private. Therefore, Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 does not apply. 3 of this law says: This law does not apply to military objects and military equipment. And I will quote quickly, said Mr Karel Fiedler, further of him § 12, today was in Red - and quickly corrected - it is no longer Red, so in Law stated that Imex has no insurance, so § 12 says that the operator is obliged to arrange liability insurance for damages caused by a major accident. Further in this law we find in § 32: The Regional Authority keeps records of contracts for liability insurance caused by a major accident. Here again, Mr Fiedler turned to the representatives of the region who were at the gallery. Notice that we have an emergency meeting today, and there are no regional representatives at the gallery. Sorry. So he turned to read this paragraph, which quite clearly states and lays down rules on the prevention of major accidents. He could not get off because it was more or less the security of the state, even though security was threatened only by the region, so Mr Klučka could not get off. And once again, he appealed to Mrs Černochová, when she reminded me that she said to go back to the beginning. But he, Mr. Klučka, has a different opinion about the beginning. He believes that at the beginning the problem was exactly in 2011, when the object was abandoned by the army, transferred it to a contributory organization and it entered into a contract with the entity to which it leases the object. He himself expressed his conviction that it was in that moment that secrecy would end. Keeping a secret about things that weren't supposed to be kept secret. But who's the culprit? asked Mr. Klučka. Is it an army, or is it the organization that comes in and uses objects that aren't calibrated to the load that they just put in there, including the disposal of the rocket fuel? An announcement of crisis status, the highest level, the highest level - to the highest level we have a state of danger and other matters, the Governor has consulted all matters with integrated rescue units. During the announcement they assessed all the conditions whether they were fulfilled and found out that Mr Klučka argued that there was no need to declare a crisis situation that the effectiveness of the work of integrated rescue units was such that they could cope with this situation exactly in the conditions in which it is. [[12.30 hours]] Let's not involve evacuations and other subsequent phenomena that are directly related to the intervention. He asked us very much, Mr Klučka used the term "I would ask you very much" directly, so that we do not extend the discussions into topics that we are not going to solve today anyway. We found ourselves in the field of security solutions at the time, so no one was surprised that Mr Ondráček also spoke. And he said it was too much for him to defend this government, that he had his problems, but let's say who was responsible, Mr Ondráček asked a rhetorical question. Vondra's names fell, said, Barták may have fallen, said, we can talk, and then he couldn't remember any other name. The Home Secretary spoke of reducing people by a third. Langer, Kubice, said Mr Ondráček, these are all people who have or had jurisdiction with a political party who, while having sixteen Members and wanting to convene this meeting, maybe she is aware of it and has only three or four representatives here. Let us go back to what we can do to correct this situation, and we were called upon by a Member, Zdeněk Ondráček. Perhaps it would be ideal to go back 15 to 20 years. To dust the papers that were used to operate such objects, and to revisit it. Mr Ondráček also expressed his conviction that the economy will never be more important than the protection of the life and health of our citizens, and he received a slight applause for this loud conviction. She could not, as you can see, do not respond, Mrs Černochová, as is the case at extraordinary meetings, and she apologized for not speaking too loudly, because otherwise she cannot explain that Mr Ondráček, like Mr Kořenek, is pushing her something that no one else has said or said at all. Those names didn't come up. And she said it wasn't Alexandr Vondra, it was Minister Šedivý and Secretary Parkanová. And neither Minister Šedivý nor Minister Parkanová were my colleagues on that side, Mrs Černochová said, as you said, which has sixteen Members, i.e. the Civil Democratic Party. To Mr Kořenek, she expressed her conviction that Mr Kořenek sits on his ears. She said she was talking about crisis management and about changing some laws. The law she quoted is completely different. Mr Mackovík could not not respond to this in the discussion at an emergency meeting on vrbětice. Mr Mackovík asked that no disinformation or false information be left this House. And maybe the Minister of Defense should comment on the fact that one of my previous speakers said that there were perhaps SS-20 missiles, and Mr. Mackovík warned us that the SS 20 rockets, the RSD-10 Pioneer, were rockets with a range of over five thousand kilometers that were never in the arms of our army. That is why Mr Mackovík expressed a fundamental doubt that those missiles would be left behind, and the less that they could be stored there. So he was kind of scared, and he wanted to dement it right away, so that he didn't, in his own words, get that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u91	Colleagues, colleagues, I understand that the SS-20's issue of missiles raises a debate in the Chamber of Deputies and off the microphone, but please calm down and let the President speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u92	Without taking the liberty of correcting you in any way, Mr President, I am not talking about the SS-20, but I am trying to explain to the Chamber of Deputies on which an extraordinary meeting is to be convened and on which one it is not to be. In other words, Mr Mackovík was very worried that he might read in the tabloids the next day that we have SS 20s. Mr Lank was interested in one more thing at our extraordinary meeting at the time, and he asked a question to which he would like to hear the answer. He asked if anyone could guarantee, or if anyone knew how many ammo was in those warehouses, and what's important is whether all the ammunition actually exploded, or if a few dozen or hundreds of pounds had disappeared before the other one, especially the explosion. And so whether, in theory, there is a certain amount of unregistered explosives somewhere, which simply no one lacks, and in the current security situation in the world, they would certainly be worth gold on the black market. That was a question that Mr Lank asked very hard, and a number of us spoke out of our minds. Mrs Jana Lorencová made a very interesting and entirely possible comment in the event of an emergency meeting. She said that we had to go back a little bit to the rather recent past, and she allowed herself to formulate a few questions that came from information continuously coming to the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice. She said that she wanted to know who was responsible for the situation that had happened and claimed that this would result from the answer to the following question. Who was the Minister of Defence in 2009 to 2011? Who signed leases for the military technical institute, which are for the state, i.e. for us, so favorable that the state would secure it for its private entities? What kind of approval process did such a serious contract go through? How did control mechanisms work under the then Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic? Whether the claims of those workers, I dare say, are based on the truth. In Bochemie, for example, the son of the former Slovak President has been present since 2012 and is owned by an anonymous Dutch company, informed by Mrs Lorencová, and immediately answered these rhetorical questions herself. She said that the Minister of Defence in 2006 were Karel Kühnl and Jiří Šedivý, in 2009 Vlasta Parkanová and Martin Barták, in 2011, it was Alexandr Vondra, then Petr Nečas and Vlastimil Picek. After that, nothing could happen except that Mr Chalupa, whose persistent claim I still appreciate, came forward and said that he didn't even want to ask us questions, even if he didn't want to look for anything, because at this point, as he said, what the ministers said that he believed and that the report would be processed and that it had already been said too much. So he doesn't want to tell us anything. [[12.40 hours]] That is what Mr Benda responded to and asked Mr Kořenko to listen to Mrs Černochová for asking the Minister of Defence for contracts to be published. And Mr Benda knows that it might seem funny who we call in here, but he doubts that ministers, whatever minister it was, and by the way, at least the government in 2009 and 2010 had confidence in both social democracy and ODS, the ministers undoubtedly did not take those contracts home, so Mr Benda said: We would like to know, and we would all probably want to know, and those contracts are undoubtedly in the Ministry of Defence, who signed them and under what circumstances, and what possibilities they give private firms on the one hand, and what possibilities they give the state on the other. They may be really bad, Mr Benda said, but it is necessary to get to know them first and know them. The discussion was so crucial that the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec responded at that time again, as it is appropriate for an emergency meeting. He said completely authoritarianly, so he calmed us all down that the SS-20 missiles, according to our information, were never in those objects. There were only skeletons of rockets, and as if they knew they were S4 rocket skeletons, which are smaller rockets, and they don't fly over those 5,000 kilometers. The skeletons were explosive-free, as can be seen from the bomb squad review, as well as from the records given by the companies. How much was the material in question, informed by the Minister of the Interior, only from company records. This means that the question of whether something has been lost or exploded is difficult to answer, but of course the investigation is devoted to this and the investigation is heading towards this. There was a janitor. Something was imported, something was exported. He asked us not to be angry with him, but he said that he believed that the ÚOOZ was doing so well that all the criminal activity there would eventually become enlightened. As far as the crisis law is concerned, the Minister of the Interior said what Mrs Černochová said. The crisis situation, in the opinion of the Fire Rescue Corps, and the Minister informed us that the Fire Rescue Corps considered it to be experts, could not be declared because the legal conditions were not fulfilled. The official position of the Fire Rescue Corps was just like that. As far as the crisis plan is concerned, then, in the view of the region, and so far, the Minister has no reason, as far as I know, to this day, to not believe and contradict it, is indeed a statute - and the Minister assumed that a representative of the Zlín Region would also comment on this. He repeated that the status of the construction was a military object. The Ministry of Defence in the past - and this is not the problem of the Minister of Defence Stropnický, but the Minister of the Interior is trying to solve the problem with him, Minister Chovanec also rejected the very public idea that he and Minister Stropnický would argue with him. As regards the obligation of the Ministry of Interior to relate to the crisis plans of other ministries and other regions, or all regions in the Czech Republic, it promised us a written report within a period of seven days if it so agreed with us. And we made a deal with him. Then the Minister of the Interior commented on how the Prime Minister did or did not do it. He informed us that he had been involved in all these discussions, that, therefore, the moment that Mr. Governor Mišák called, the matter was discussed at the meeting of the government, and the Prime Minister asked the Minister of Defence to take action on the matter, which also happened. And subsequently, when the Police of the Czech Republic asked for the possibility of involvement of the Army of the Czech Republic, the Prime Minister immediately convened an extraordinary government that decided. There was no laxity, said the Minister of the Interior, we acted in the shortest possible terms. To a large extent, Mr Tomio Okamura disagreed. He also, of course, spoke at an emergency meeting with the fact that he focused, as everyone always said, I'm going to focus a little differently than everyone else. However, Mr Okamura was particularly interested in the answers to the questions about where the systemic failure occurred, in his words, where the errors were, why they were, and who was to blame. He expressed his conviction that to this day, we have not yet learned from the government who is responsible for this and where are the systemic errors. He approached Prime Minister Sobotka that he had informed about the preparation of the new legislation last time, but, as Mr Okamura asked, systemically, how can we prepare new legislation if we do not know what systemic errors were involved. That was his first question. How can new legislation be prepared if we do not yet know who is responsible, who has failed, and where has the existing system failed? At the same time, he wanted to clarify the questions, because according to him, the information provided by the government at the emergency meeting is of a different type and contradicts itself. The Minister of Defence already said after the explosions that the state institutions did not know at all what the amount of ammunition on the site was stored, respectively. it was said here, and these data from private companies were just being asked. On the other hand, and at the same time, the Minister also said that they would only be pushing private companies, Mr Okamura quoted directly to deliver a list of what they have in storage. So the Minister of Defence says that the state does not have this information, he does not know at all how much ammunition is stored on the site, which in itself is remarkable, and the Minister said that they will only be pushing private companies to deliver the information, Mr Okamura was slightly offended. At the same time, Minister Chovanec states that the companies immediately supplied lists of what they have in their warehouses and, according to his own data, that it was merely an indication on paper, in his own words, and that is true that the reality will yet be discovered. That means it's a mess. One of the ministers says that there is no information and that it is necessary to ask what ammunition is actually in storage, and the other information from Minister Chovanec is that the companies immediately supplied a list of what they have, but it is necessary to find out the reality. Either way, it means the state doesn't know. So it either does, or it doesn't, so here's the contradiction, so there's confusion anyway, but that's not what Mr Okamura blamed on the government, because it's relatively, in his own words, only briefly. I'm sure the confusion is from earlier. But he asked why the confusion was unknown, and he said that, and here Mr Okamura used the word whorehouse by the mouth of the citizens who contacted him from Vrbětic-Vlachovic, they are upset by him, but there is confusion anyway. And now he doesn't understand why the reality will be discovered, which means that the information isn't really here. [[12.50 hours]] Then he asked another question about systemic misconduct, namely that when Mr. Governor Mišák says publicly that there were holes in the fence through which the animals went through or, perhaps, people, it means that there are holes in the ammunition storehouse, where there are 15,000 tons of ammunition, where the animals can also pass through. He informed us all, and thus greatly enriched the extraordinary meeting and justified it, he provided indirect evidence of why it was right to call it together, that he requested written information from the Ministry of Defence and requested a list of checks that were carried out on the fence. He was told that the Office of State's Professional Supervision carried out a last check on 15 May 2014, in particular the security of the external fence, and he did not find any obvious defects. The last fence repair probably by someone else, because one body did not find faults, the other probably did, because Mr Okamura noted that the fence repairs were carried out in May 2014. That is, the MP said that one didn't find faults, the other found them and repaired them, but the third, specifically the chief, says that the holes were still there. In a warehouse where not only the animals had free access, but in our country in Zlinsko - with them in Zlinsko, I was from South Bohemia - but Mr Okamura said: in our country it is usually deer or something bigger, so it is certainly a man who goes through it, but there is confusion again anyway, no one knows whether there are holes or not, but the facts remain. That someone could have climbed through the fence without a problem, even a man, so he is guarding himself in the Czech Republic 15,000 tons of ammunition and someone is wrong. Either the Governor's making it up, or there's fake controls. And they're lying. They said there's a fixed fence, there's no problem, and he wasn't. Someone's wrong. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, So who? Will we finally know, did Mr Okamura ask who is lying or who is cheating? Why isn't it controlled in some way? He then mentioned another matter, namely that Mr. Governor Mišák said that it is necessary to lay down the rules of transport first. He put it into line with the Prime Minister's last statement that private companies where it happened would be carrying ammunition. So the MP was logically interested when these private companies were already guarding the ammunition with this style, or she was guarded by someone who was so banged up, that they would take it back to the whole Czech Republic, for example, to Květná u Polička. On public roads? Mr Okamura asked. Among the citizens' homes? So he asked what are the rules in the Czech Republic for transporting ammunition. And it would have been answered in writing that the Army of the Czech Republic has the rules. Police of the Czech Republic also have their own internal regulations. As regards the collection of ammunition by private means, he quoted one sentence: This is subject to other rules, in particular the obligation to report to the competent authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic. Private companies report their terms to the police as they transport ammunition. This was considered scandalous by Mr Okamura. He also asked how often ammunition warehouses were actually checked, because 15,000 tons of ammunition is a huge amount. He found that the warehouses were controlled, for example, by the Mining Authority, because the control of the storage of industrial explosives is in charge of the Mining Authority. And he only controls them once every two years. One check was 2011, the other 2013. And Mr Okamura asked and again tried to figure out where the system failure was. According to him, checks are made when 15 thousand tons of ammunition are stored in the Czech Republic, every two years, and this shows that it is sufficient, especially when we have 30 more warehouses in the Czech Republic. In other words, he asks the suggestive rhetorical question of whether controls should not be more frequent after all. Mr Okamura also urgently informed us that the citizens of Vlachovic-Vrbětic were asking us, he said "at least us from Dawn" - notice that he told us from Dawn that time was flying - because we are moving there, and that there were two other Members there last weekend, Karel Fiedler, Mr Holík, and they tried to get information and work there in some way. Citizens ask when they will really know the danger they are in, or rather still at risk. They will probably not know, said Mr Okamura, as this would be a security risk for the state. Finally, Mr Okamura appealed to us and rather much more to the government that the problem is that, in addition to ammunition, citizens live in dozens of places in the Czech Republic and that such a system cannot be tolerated. So he begged the government again, stressed that it was not attacking her, but begged her to quickly set up a system solution so that it could never happen again. Whoever said that the debate on this serious issue at an emergency meeting would be brought to a lower level, Mr Benešík. He said that everyone wants to investigate, clog system holes, but people in Vrbětice and surroundings and other villages live in great uncertainty, because some of the information that the media has had, and they have this information from the media, is very inaccurate, and sometimes they feel that they see something completely different from what the media is serving them. That is why they - not me as Kalousek, but me, says Benešík - have sent several questions to me as regional representative of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which are directly related to the situation at the moment, with emphasis, and not with a system solution, which will undoubtedly happen after it happened there. [[There's noise in the room.]] So I'd like to read some of the questions. Who checked what was stored in each warehouse? Whether the reality, at least projected, corresponds to documented lists? When and by whom was the last check carried out? Was the cover exceeded in one of the warehouses that exploded or which had already been checked? I beg you, Mr. Chairman, to give me some peace after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u93	I ask my colleagues to keep their voice down, and however unclear to me how this extensive expo is related to what is on the board, I will not prevent the President from speaking to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u94	I have explained this once before, and I am willing to do it a second time, Mr President. I am explaining here what topics are in my opinion appropriate to convene an emergency meeting and how completely inappropriate is the point in the ordinary legislative process, plus at third reading, to include it in an emergency meeting when it could have been discussed properly at the meeting. That just doesn't make any sense at all. And I'm trying to explain the logic to you, and believe me, I will. [[13.00 hours]] Who checked what was stored in the individual warehouses and whether the reality, at least the projected ones, corresponds to the documented lists? When and by whom was the last check carried out? Were there any warehouses that exploded or which had already been checked exceeded? Are the objects in this area designed to store artillery grenades and air bombs? And there are a number of questions that concern Bochemia. If it's even possible in a given situation for such an undertaking to operate in a ammunition storage facility. They're also very confused about what was before, whether the ammunition storage started working there, or if Bochemie started working there. I mean, work, Mr. Benešík said, not when the contract was signed. If rocket fuel was first modified or if bombs were stored there first. These are just some specific questions, said Mr Benešík, who he was convinced that if he explained, people would certainly be calmer. This was answered by Mrs Lorencová, who only wanted to add what she said a moment ago, or to extend the questions she asked who was responsible. You will recall, as I said about half an hour ago, that Mrs Lorencová asked who was the Secretary of Defense, in which year. I'm not gonna tell you again, I don't want to keep you. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] Mrs Lorencová said that she had been informed that the company Bochemie, a. s., was actually an anonymous company based in Holland, Amsterdam, and this company is supposedly our state-funded since 2008, as it has been arriving at at least 110 million crowns according to the information the Member has heard. Whether they're true. If that is true, the honourable Member said, then I would like to know why this company is to receive subsidies, when and precisely at what time the subsidies entered the company, asked the Member. [[There's noise in the hall.]] And the last question she asked was whether it was part of the acceptance documentation, whether it was also part of the lease agreements, that the objects at the time the companies were, not only the one she mentioned, but the companies were renting, whether the objects were really empty. If so, it must be part of the documentation and must be part of the lease agreements. And the lady politely asked whether it really was stated in the lease agreements. Well, I don't see any interest again. It's 13.03. Mr President, I would like to ask for a vote on my procedural proposal to interrupt this extraordinary meeting by 3 September 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u95	Mr President, I would very much like to vote on this proposal of yours, but I did not realise in previous votes that you are no longer the President of the parliamentary club and, as such, you cannot propose a suspension of the meeting, because only the President of the parliamentary club and the President can propose this. You could suggest interrupting the point, but we're not within the point. So this proposal is unvoteable. [[Member Kalousek: Accepted.]] Of course, if you freed up the speaker's seat and allowed one of the members of the MPs to make a suggestion, that would be a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u96	I accept your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] I'm just sorry we didn't think of it sooner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u97	It's my fault. But perhaps not only in my mind, you have entered into an indelible register as chairman of the MP's club, and it will take some Friday to get used to your new, higher office, which does not allow us to propose a suspension of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u98	Colleagues, I'm sorry, I didn't realize I was out of competence. Mr Koskuba, who is also not the president of the club, has become a little impatient and stressed that, of course, he does not take anybody's right to comment on the subject, but he warned us that time has already advanced, that it is not the laziness of Members, even though we have been discussing here this week how others have to meditate at Advent time, and that we have no doubt the right to do so even in Advent time. And he asked us a rhetorical question. Did any of you question that what happened wasn't okay? I will answer myself - he did not dispute, said Mr Koskuba. We all agree. We hear it's saving up, it's on the committees. The government is gradually gathering information that it's passing on to us. He asked us to allow him to ask: " What is our point? He said to me: I also feel sorry for the people who live around this building, but now I have to ask the question: Mr. Minister, where are the other objects and the other objects? Surely we are intelligent people, expressed the optimistic hope of Mr Koskuba, we know about the problem. None of us denied it. Now somebody's gotta make it. And then he took the liberty -- he said he was taking the liberty -- I wouldn't dare comment -- one single remark like in medicine. Let's see what caused it. I said my opinion here. The reason for this was that if it belonged to the military, we wouldn't have to worry about it at all. And here's what I'm saying in the foyer. If you privatize another squadron of Gripens, you will surely have more problems with it than those belonging to the air force of the Czech Republic! But it's okay, we sign the contracts, they'll serve. We can have private courts, too. We can also have private prosecutors, Mr Koskuba expressed his conviction. We can have private prisons. If we make a deal, everything will work out. But we're talking about control here. I'm not denouncing anyone. Well, there wouldn't be any trouble if someone was running something that I don't think he should be doing. Mr. Václav Klučka immediately followed up on this to assure us that the ammunition warehouses that are in the army are perfectly safe. They work in modes, it works the way it's supposed to work. There's control, there's protection, there's patrol, there's everything. It's not an army munitions warehouse! This was another ammunition warehouse, Mr. Klučka assured us. On Mr Okamur, Mr Klučka had a comment that he would like to correct him, that the firefighters were given documentation of emergency planning, whether internal or external, after. We didn't. She was not one for us to understand each other, Mr. Klučka told us. There really wasn't one. And we all know from the media that the moment the fire started there, because the explosion is the result of the fire, at this point there was only one person in the working relationship, and that was the doorman. Mr Josef Hájek wanted to answer Mr Okamura's questions. Mr Hájek reminded us that he had been a mining rescuer for 31 years and expressed his conviction that it was not Mr Okamura. He said that he was also the head of the accident disposal and experienced dozens of fatal accidents. And he informed us that he could do under any accident, and Vrbětice understands as a crash, to equip lively all solutions to how things are going. [[13.10 hours]] I totally hated it, said Mr. Hájek, I totally hated the reactions of laymen. And what Mr. Okamura was saying here was incredibly misleading inn talk. That means, I think, even though there's been an accident here and there's definitely been a mistake, so it's about letting all the files analyze the situation now enough to ensure the whole situation. And, of course, there is a government and ministers here, he expressed his conviction by Mr Hájek, in order to adopt a clear solution, so that this does not happen again in the future, and that is what our House has been told, and we have decided to do so - no. Mr Hájek said he was very pleased, and perhaps he really was, because he repeated it once again, very glad that on November 14 when my three colleagues died on my home shaft of Dolu Karviná, when three miners died, Members of the Dawn did not go to deal with and help find a way out of this accident. That is what Mr Bronislav Schwarz followed up on and said directly that he wanted to follow up on Mr Hájek. He asked, then stressed it, said he begged the Minister that he didn't want to ask him anything, but if the Minister had used all his options and techniques to make this place a crime scene, so that the police would do everything for it - and the MP said he believed he would do it so that it wasn't a crime scene, so that it would be a classic place for the bomb squad to come here. And when he said the minister here, he pointed to the Secretary of Defense. They're gonna take a quick look at all this, and these gentlemen here can tell their people that it's okay and that they won't have to move anymore. I would just like to ask the Minister, said Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Mr Fiedler assured us that he would try to be brief and expressed his conviction that the debate was being dragged forward unnecessarily. Since he assumed that the government would submit some subsequent material, he wanted to add the question to my colleague Jana Lorencová. Mrs Lorencová asked if the warehouses were really empty at the time of the handover. The ones that relate to the lease. And now he's trying to widen the question. If the other warehouses that weren't involved in these companies' leases were empty, or there was some ammunition in them. He disagreed with what my colleague Koskuba said. He said he still sees it in two planes. What the government is dealing with and the files can go on. But Mr Fiedler was convinced at that moment that the causes that led to this state of affairs were much longer before, not this year, so he thought that we could find an answer to those questions right away. But I will take a stand, Mr Fiedler said, in order to come to some conclusion, that this meeting should have a concrete outcome. The Minister Stropnický tried to get a concrete output at least for the Ministry of Defence, but also for the government as such, and began answering those questions that were systematically asked. To the contracts. The police have contracts because that's what they need most right now to assess the investigation. That explains why the military and the DOD can't deal with it. As far as duty is concerned. The duties, as he said, were divided. As far as the Military Technical Institute is concerned, he was supposed to secure things like wiring, lightning ducts and maintenance of the protection, i.e. fence. There is one thing that needs to be emphasized here, which is also constantly confused in the media, and then it creates a chain of misunderstandings. A military ammunition warehouse has a completely different regime than a civilian ammunition warehouse. The basis of the difference, and therefore Minister Stropnickýý would like to respond partly to the evergreen theme fence, is that the military ammunition warehouse is secured throughout the perimeter. There is the essence of security, fence, sensors, cameras and so on, and inside the building there are already individual buildings without any additional fences. For civilians, it is precisely the opposite, the perimeter is protected only by the base fence and individual warehouses are burdened with those who store, are equipped with fences, sensors and so on. The Military Technical Institute has an obligation to control fences. To the outer fence. We really have a review, Mr. Defense Secretary assured us. He claimed that he could not assess whether the revision was regular or irregular. Rather, he pleaded that the fence was regular because there was a razor fence and then the Military Technical Institute received complaints from some citizens that the fence was too impenetrable and that it was bad for mushrooms. I don't mean to downplay it, the Secretary of Defense said, but there's a lot of guaranteed information, and like always, when trouble breaks out, it obviously shows up on this... I hope I have no doubt in the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, when I say that I can hardly continue if no member of the Government is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u99	On the right is the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u100	I'm so sorry. I'm sorry. I don't want to downplay it, as I said before, Mr. Defense Minister pointed out, but there's a lot of guaranteed information, and, as always, when trouble breaks out, of course, it turns out who's standing next to it, that's who's making it all go away. However, the interesting thing about the contracts is that in the case of EXCALIBUR, it agreed with the VTÚ, given that there was quite a lot invested by the company, that the land under the buildings is owned by this company. That's a bit of a special circumstance for me, but so be it. As far as insurance is concerned, ammo from all the traceable sources we've been looking for can't be insured with us. VTÚ, i.e. the whole area was and is insured for 50 miles. but basically common damage, of course, not damage of this magnitude. As far as the price is concerned, it is so-called time and place usual. I cannot resist the impression that 400 CZK per metre per year is a very friendly price. So much for contracts. I say again, the police have them. Indemnification. Of course, all legitimate claims will be implemented, which is why there is also the liaison officer in the rank of general and, of course, some sort of administrative background. As far as companies are concerned, it depends on the investigation, because there are many versions. And as a company that's not guilty of anything or material shouldn't be affected, it shouldn't profit from it at all, for example, a company where a police investigation proves that it was guilty. Re-enabled May. The amount, I know, said Minister Stropnickýý that she was heard somewhere, up to 100 miles. Crowns. Now the re-enactment, as we've prepared it, as we implement it, is within 20 miles. Crowns. [[13.20 hours]] I'd beg you, Minister Stropnickýý approached us so we could have some sieve, some kind of filter for news like this, see if the temps went there, see if the strangers were moving there. If the warehouse owner had a client, they signed up at the gate and went to show him, let's just say, the merchandise, it doesn't seem so bad to me. [[Short silence due to the rest of the room.]] Seems a lot worse if there's ever been a chase. In order not to demonize the ammo business again, because if it's legal, let's just say that if I could... somehow centrally ban it here, everyone around us is going to do it to a much greater extent. So I don't think we'd be very good at it, said Minister Stropnický. Ammo. Despite all the discomfort of the citizens and all the trouble that has happened, the ammunition itself has worked very well... I can't do it now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u101	Yes, I'm asking the left side of the hall to keep it down and possibly disband the discussion groups.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u102	How it's designed, how it's built, how it's made, how it's made, and how it's forested. In both cases, it just swallowed up a real gros explosion. If it had been built by a fuss, the trouble would have been much bigger, assured us by the Secretary of Defense. He didn't say that because he would minimize the situation, but perhaps to ask us not to be so emotional in this case. However, emotions were appropriate, people felt threatened, and therefore it was appropriate to convene an extraordinary meeting, unlike the third reading of the ordinary law, which of course does not require any extraordinary meeting. I have to say one thing, Mr. Defense Minister pointed out, and he didn't want to get caught up in any controversy. The first contact really received 26. 10. He said, "I can't help it. 26, respectively. 10th I got a call from the governor, and he asked for an army on the phone. Then somehow we agreed that we had to make a different arrangement. As far as the future is concerned, she was mentioned here in May. The Minister of Defence expressed his conviction and said that he believed that this would also happen at government level. I think more people are inclined to do so, says the Minister. I don't want to speak for the Prime Minister, but I think he feels that way too. May, I think that it should be some sort of erratic, emergency, backup warehouse for all emergencies, whether it's ammunition, which I believe will not be repeated immediately, or it's goods confiscated by customs or any material that's being investigated. I think, the Secretary of Defense said that the money that's going to be spent on this is worth it, and that it should be part of an integrated rescue system. He asked us to use 15,000 tons very carefully. It's not entirely obvious, it's even significantly more likely that it's about half of it. This number has been heard many times today, and the Minister of Defence has slightly offended, and please, as he said at the beginning some two or three hours ago, let the police investigate and see that it was much less. As far as traffic is concerned. There are clear rules for transporting ammunition, and I think it must have been followed, because companies are also interested in doing business, so I don't think they respected the fact that they had to report it 10 days in advance to the Regional Police Directorate, where the route is set, and where the time in which it takes place is defined. Information. We often talk about how information is or is not being set up, we were approached by the Minister at the time. The worst information is a quarter of truth, half truth, and unverified information. These float through media space like balloons, attract attention and few, unfortunately few verify the information and can cause real panic, or even the often mentioned alarm report about bomb squads. The attorney for the unnamed interested firm claimed that if a lot of the bomb squad came in at the very beginning, everything would have been resolved. Well, it wasn't. The minister assured us. It really wasn't. I don't know if the doctor is an expert on bomb squad, but I'm not impersonating him. But from all the available sources and from the people who do this in Afghanistan, I know it wouldn't just work, that we would basically send these people if they didn't die, to very serious injuries. He gave us one more example. In an unnamed, serious diary - I warn you that the Minister of Defence called it serious - a report came out today or yesterday in an unnamed, serious diary, and there was a picture of a house like this where normal people put their wheels on a cottage or pitchfork, and under it was a suggestive article about the explosion. Of course it immediately evokes this: oh, this is what the warehouse looks like. But that wasn't a warehouse, please. It was just a building, the tapes were still coming through. So everyone could have said, "That's not true, there's no tables in the windows, there's a fallen wooden door." Unfortunately, that's how information works. So please, let's do it by 10:00, the Secretary of Defense asked us. Let's verify them because we should calm these people down, but not calm them down with some sugarcandy, but verified real information. He said he didn't want to keep us, but that he would like to say one more crucial thing after all. One more example from the media sphere. We will immediately learn from ČT 24, the Minister of Defence said that there were other explosions in the area, it is published immediately to fill in and highlight the broadcast time, but no one will take at least a few minutes to find out if it is controlled or uncontrolled explosions. And that's pretty crucial. As well as the suggestive proposals of some Sunday questioners who call for my resignation, the Minister of Defence said. Mr Moravec, that's humor. Because it's exactly the same as if I was suggesting to Minister Chovanc that his mail blew up and that he should draw some personal consequences from it. That's ridiculous stuff, please. But I understand that some journalists require blood, but they shouldn't overdo it, the Minister of Defence said. Then came the time when the club presidents began to perform. Mr Pavel Kováčik. He asked all of us who were chasing each other, I didn't go there then but... Who we were chasing in factual notes to read the Rules of Procedure before they came out, as he said. At the moment when I begin to take a factual position on the so-called factual point, it is the President's duty to take the floor... Mr Kováčik told me... [[He's looking in the background.]] Sorry, sorry, I lost my speech. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] Remove my word and not let go of quasi-disbat, which did not actually start as a debate, except for the two priority rights of the presidents or representing the presidents of clubs or parties. Otherwise, we didn't start a debate. I may have a motion for a resolution prepared. I haven't had a chance yet, Mr Kováčik complained. I'm being polite, I'm not applying to facts and I'm not violating the Rules of Procedure, even though I only have it for two minutes. You know, we got completely out of line, he complained. [[13.30 hours]] Then Mr Šarapatka spoke. Mr Šarapatka protested that we were coming to the conclusion that no one was actually responsible. How is it not the government's fault? Mr Šarapatka asked. How long has this government been here? A week? Two? I can't believe this. We're here to find out that there's shit going on and shooting deer. Then he got off - and here again, please note, you should not miss this, that in addition to the appearance of Mayor Vrbětice, Vlachovic, Mr. Jaroslav Drozd, Deputy Governor of the Zlín Region, was also speaking. That's what special meetings are for, ladies and gentlemen. He wanted to bring us closer to the chronology of what the Zlín Region, the Governor, the Security Council and the institutions of the integrated rescue system, had done, and he leaned on some of the facts. Because even here in the discussion, citations have fallen from the point of view of crisis law and other things, and even confused situations of emergency with situations of danger, paragraphs of the Integrated Rescue System Act and sections of the Crisis Management Act. Everything has its essentials. And since we're in the state of law, there's no other way to rely on these facts. On 16. 10. there was a fire and explosion of Building No. 16. In the context of crisis management, coordination was carried out and the handover of the commander of the intervention of the Fire Rescue Corps to the commander of the intervention of the police according to that reason and that result. The notification and warning of surrounding municipalities was carried out in a standard manner. The intervention commander decided that the situation would be dealt with under Act No. 239/2000 Coll., on Integrated Rescue System. He was informed by the director of the Regional Military Headquarters requesting that the situation be reported to the Ministry of Defence because it is an object owned by the State under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. Since I was 17. 10 to 22. 10. pyrotechnic works were carried out under the command of the Police of the Czech Republic and tests in terms of hygiene, whether dangerous substances were leaked. 22 days. 10. as part of the inspection of the buildings was ordered preventive evacuation due to the inspection of the warehouse in the marginal parts of the building. 23 days. 10. as part of the inspection of the buildings was ordered preventive evacuation due to the inspection of the warehouse in the marginal parts of the building. 24 days. 10. preventive evacuation of the municipalities Vlachovice, Bohuslavice for the management of the said authorities. 24 days. 10. a written request was sent to the Minister of Defence to address this emergency by the Ministry of Defence and informed by the Prime Minister. On 27. 10. after inspection of the warehouse at the request of the police to convene the Security Council of the Region, there was a meeting of the Security Council extended by the mayors with the municipality with extended scope. Directly from the meeting on the basis of the police security report, the Prime Minister was informed of the situation by phone. On 30 June 2014, the Commission adopted a communication to the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, On 3. 11 out... Sorry, sorry. On 3. 11. then the government discussed the situation with the participation of the Governor of the Zlín Region. 6 days. 11. the coordination and winding-up work of the Governor of the Zlín Region has been taken over in accordance with Act 239 on the Integrated Rescue System and a system of regular coordination meetings has been established, established by a permanent coordination group. On the day of 8. 11th meeting of the Prime Minister, the Police President and the Director-General of the Fire Rescue Corps on site in Vlachovice. On the day of 8. 11 to 3. 12. pyrotechnic cleaning of the premises was carried out, preparation for the removal of ammunition, coordination of work at the level of staff of the General Directorate of the Fire Rescue Corps and the Zlín Region with the date of commencement of the removal of ammunition 3. 12. On 3. 12. after the preparation of the ammunition, there was an explosion of Building No. 12. On 3. 12. then met the extremely Security Council of the Zlín Region, again extended to mayors of municipalities with extended scope. From 4 to 7. 12. there was a preventive evacuation of the municipalities Vlachovice, Lipová, Haluzice for the management of the Zlín Region, the mayors of municipalities and mayors of municipalities with extended scope. 5 days. 12. then there was an extraordinary meeting of the Security Council with regard to the detection of artillery ammunition on another object and the risks of explosion of ammunition in this object. This took place with the participation of the Police President, the Director of pyrotechnic services and the Minister of Interior. The date of 9 May 2011 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the Now, in addition to the chronological state of affairs of the case, as was done within the integrated rescue system components and, as I would like to say, Deputy Director Drozd said, in accordance with Act No. 240, this is the crisis law, every time a state of danger is declared, the emergency measures that are mentioned in the law cannot be imposed on a work obligation, since the activities must be carried out by professional bomb squads, police officers and other experts. It is not possible to order the provision of material resources. Armoured transporters, tanks and special equipment are used. It is not possible to order the immediate execution of constructions or landscaping. Executing youth care. The priority supply or alternative means of deciding on welfare benefits cannot be ordered. I don't want to quote the whole part, Mr. Deputy Drozd told us what the announcement of the state of danger contains and what it serves. The state of danger may be declared by the Governor if it is not possible to avoid the threat to the functioning of the components of the integrated rescue system. The explosion of ammunition in the ammunition warehouse, and here it fell several times, is such a specific, extraordinary event that in any case it is not possible to use resources and forces other than highly professional components of the integrated rescue system. From the outset, it was not possible to allow laymen or those who could be at risk of health and life in terms of professionality or incompetence. As well as when the command was double-tracked, as well as according to the extent of the danger that an ambulance commander, a firefighter's commander or a police officer, was in charge of the elements of the integrated rescue system, even if they had to map other options as a commander of the intervention. Solving an emergency in the regime of Act No. 239/2000 Coll., was the only possible solution that could be done at the time. In conclusion, Mr Drozd asked us to state this in the light of other generally binding legislation. There was an emergency with a state organization set up by the Ministry of Defence in a state property facility. The Military Technical Institute was established by Government Resolution No. 456 19 June 2012 and is intended to ensure strategic requirements of the state in the field of defence and security of the Czech Republic. The Military Technical Institute concluded lease contracts for the storage of ammunition in the incriminate location instead of the implementation of this purpose for which it was established. The Ministry of Defence, Olomouc State's Office of Professional Supervision, issued a co-authorising consent to the use of the construction as a relevant building office. In the approval of the appeal to Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on securing the defence of the Czech Republic, it is stated that it is an important object for the defence of the state and interference with these powers of the state is unacceptable. [[13.40 hours]] Perhaps in conclusion I quote two laws, namely No. 229/2013 Coll., on the management of security materials, and Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on firearms and ammunition, Mr. Deputy Governor Drozd said. He wanted to say that some improvisation - and the Deputy Minister assured us that he had humility in front of the Chamber of Deputies as a legislature, but this interpretation of the law should be the one that would allow us to find the right solutions, because, as the mayor here at the outset thanked the components of the integrated rescue system, we too bow to their professionalism, said Deputy Drozd. Despite two lives wasted, I want to say that we are glad that there has not been a threat to the health and life of other people and that it is at least as it is. But the citizens of adjacent communities are waiting for a solution. They feel threatened and in danger, and I expect all the responsible authorities to really look for the solution that will allow them to rid them of this fear. That is why we came here today, not to hear some half-truths and combinations in terms of interpretation of different contradictory terminology, but to hear terminology related to the wording of the law. Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová complained that after a four-hour discussion, she only spoke now, although she was the first to be entered in the debate. She wanted to tell us that the citizens of the municipalities concerned turned to our House of Petitions, in which not only us, but also the Ministry of Defence, request the removal of all ammunition and dangerous quantities of material in the area of former military warehouses in the village of Vlachovice and Vrbětice. It's a petition, Mrs Bebarová said, which was filed before the second explosion. It has 1259 signatures and the petition committee will discuss it on 13 January at 15 o'clock. I assume that, with the participation of both ministers and mayors of the municipalities concerned, even if I cordially invite interested parties from your ranks, Mrs Bebarová Rujbrová said. Mr President, can we please ask the honourable members of the government not to speak behind my back?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u103	I ask the ministers not to disturb the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u104	The fact that Mrs Černochová had another major speech can also be understood because the meeting was interrupted, we did not discuss it for 14 days, and we had to go back to that with considerable time. I am afraid that this too is the fate of many extraordinary meetings, and I do not quite understand why, therefore, you have submitted the electronic record of sales to this regime, because I believe, without predicting anything, that this extraordinary meeting will be interrupted many times. However, Mrs Jana Černochová warned us - sorry, I said 14 days, I did not even realize that, she warned us that we were meeting two months after we discussed this at the first emergency meeting. She sighed that two months had passed and that it was time to ask the government officials again what had happened in those two months. And she expressed her conviction that, unfortunately, questions are still more than answers. With promises, as soon as the ammo goes, as everything checks out, there's only one truck left. It seems that those who warned about the fact that everything would last at least a year were right. So she asked the Minister of the Interior what the latest estimates of the time of removal of the ammunition are up to date at the moment. The government decided a number of months ago that it would be a warehouse of an integrated rescue system. All right, that's not a bad idea, said Mrs. Černochová. But she asked another question. Are you clear on who's gonna keep this for the army? I'd expect it to be the Home Office, and I hope it's not true information about you wanting the warehouse to continue to run by the military. This would be very unfortunate for a number of reasons, for example, because it wants to place explosives belonging to private companies in the warehouse, and in a way you would transfer responsibility to the military. What about Květná, then? Mrs Černochová asked. Who's gonna run it? Who's going to finance it? And what will be the next steps? At the meeting of the Defence Committee, the Chief of Staff asked how the MP informed us that the deployment of the army guarding the tape would be as short as possible. Soldiers have been in the area for over two months. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Defence how much longer they will be there. I assume that the ministers, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior, should already know the answer, expressed Mrs Černochová's hope. And she continued to speak directly: You have spoken several times, Minister Chovanč, about investigating the circumstances of the explosion, the investigation of the explosives trading system. Can you please tell us, if possible, what police have investigated about the explosion and what deficiencies in the explosive system have been discovered by the control authorities and police? What are the consequences of this? I noticed that the government approved the amendment to Act No. 38/1994 Coll., on foreign trade in military material, in which the tightening of licensing policy is partly incorporated. In general, I would like to know what has come from the analysis of legislation that you have definitely developed, and when we can expect some comprehensive information here in the House on what the government will do in the legislative area. On the defense committee, it was said that the governor of the county was to declare a state of emergency. I would therefore like to ask, Mrs Černochová, whether you have examined the activities of the self-government and integrated rescue system. If so, with what result. Have you found any white spots and what measures will your resort prepare in the future? Thank you, she said because she was expecting answers. After that, Mr Václav Snopek, who informed us that he monitors virtually all information about Vrbětice in the press, has this monitoring at his disposal. According to him it is more than 1,500 pages of A4 text format. So he did not want to evaluate information from the point of view of respectability, tabloids, he said, that will certainly be done by others, but yet the attention here is enormous, but I think it is not the main object of my speech, said Mr Snopek. I want to focus on two kinds of questions in my speech, or, if you like, I want to point out some lessons from the situation in the first circle and in the second circle of questions, I want to respond to the situation as Mr Snopek, on the basis of Vrbětice, responds to the situation of the Pardubice Region, which is concerned from the point of view of the relocation of the military warehouse, said. [[13.50 hours]] The first heading of questions is the question of the legal regulation of the powers of public authorities in relation to the handling of ammunition by civil entities. This has been described a lot, but I think it is a pity that many shortcomings of larger or smaller ones are only beginning to be addressed after the events that occurred in Vrbětice in October. I do not want to speculate at all about it, or to say that such events would not have happened if the law had been applied and all its shortcomings had been removed. From the perspective of legislation on the section of weapons, ammunition and the handling of ammunition, explosives in general, I do not mean just the law, there are a number of laws, regulations, decrees, and especially with various gestures. Whether it is the Gesture of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Regional Development, but also the Czech Mining Office and so on. In such an analysis, there is mainly a discrepancy in terms and approaches to the implementation of individual legislation. The result is a statement that thanks to the various gestures it escapes a substantial, comprehensive control, it refers to each other. I'm talking about individual ministries. It is also witnessed by a series of questions, answers from the Ministry of Defence, questions about the summary report of the Association for Healthy Valachia. And if you read this report, you will find that the Ministry of Defence has practically nothing to do with it, Mr Snopek has assured us. The government has a comprehensive legal review of the analyses and it is now up to it how they will deal with it, how quickly they will discuss the necessary changes or submit necessary changes to our House. At this point, probably those who will monitor the negotiations of our House, especially the citizens of Vrbětice, will not be satisfied by the fact that we know from practically public sources that it will take more than a year in Vrbětice to clear the warehouse. I am convinced, however, that Mr Snopek said that the government is making every effort to ensure the safety of citizens in the surrounding municipalities. In connection with Vrbětice there are also some less appropriate statements. For example, they certainly do not contribute to a good mood among citizens of the guessing of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence regarding the security of Vrbětice. Wait a minute, I'm just gonna...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u105	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, if you need a consult, I'd like to read the apologies. And during that moment, you can consult with your colleagues. So Vice-President Gazdík apologizes from 4:00 p.m. for reasons of work, for reasons of work, for reasons of service, for reasons of service, Ms Aulická Jírovcová from 14:00 apologizes to Minister chovanec from 11:45 a.m. to 14:30 a.m. Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka from 12:30 a.m. for reasons of service, Mrs Bohdalová from today's meeting from 14:00 to the end of the sitting on health Langšádlová, Mr Farský from 12:00 a.m. for Vilímec of health, Mr Adam from 12:00 a.m. for reasons of health, Mr Kostřica from today's meeting from 12:30 p.m. for personal reasons, Mr Korte from 12 to 15 for reasons of work, Mr Gabal from 12:30 to 14.30 for Stanjura of work, Mr Novotný from 11.30 for reasons of work, Mr. Well, that was an apology. I'm going to ask if you want to continue, or do you want me to propose a follow-up?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u106	I, Mr President, would continue to cry, of course. But I was warned that I would keep the House from some of the points that the House wishes to discuss today, because they were originally firmly classified, so I don't want to delay this program, so I'm going to end it for today, and I promise to do everything in my power to finish my reasoning sometime by next Christmas. If I push, I'll do it at the next extraordinary meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u107	Yes. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] With priority rights, colleagues Benda and Gazdík have been enrolled here, but they are both downloading, which gives priority rights to President Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u108	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you can understand that we do not accept the scandalous procedure that Vice-President Jermanová has chosen today to manage the meeting. We do not acknowledge that the constitutional rights of Members with priority rights have been tried and, of course, we will let you vote on your suspension of your meeting, because we believe that we are in line with the Constitution and the rights that we are at the stage of the discussion before the approval of the programme, so we will not take part in this vote, because something that we do not believe cannot be interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-037-01-000-000.u109	Yes, that's your vision of the situation, of course. In that case, if no one else is reporting, I am here as President, which I can propose, under the Rules of Procedure, to interrupt this meeting by 18. 12th, which is Friday, within 9 o'clock. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 9. Registered is 137, for 101, against was 1. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. This meeting has been adjourned, and I will now allow 10 minutes to set up the tech, so we will continue the proper meeting at 14-10 hours.
