ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-011-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 38/1994 Coll., on Foreign Trade in Military Materials, and on Supplementary Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Trade Business (Act of Business), as amended, and Act No. 140/1961 Coll., Criminal Law, as amended, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 408/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, this proposal will be presented by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. Before I give him my word, I will ask my colleague Seďa to take the floor at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur for first reading. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-011-023.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the demands to increase the transparency of foreign trade in military material and the requirement to increase the possibility of its control, it is proposed that the existing provisions of the law be tightened. It is a proposal that the foreign trade permit for military material be issued only for a period of five years. The amendment of the information obligation of the holder of the authorisation to the MIT is proposed, for example when transferring military material from another EU state to the Czech Republic. In the event of military material subject to the Convention on the Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, the Ministry of Defence is also obliged to inform about such transfer. Expansion of the required information is necessary for a more flexible overview of traded military material with foreign countries. Furthermore, the amendment proposal allows for the new export and sale of military material on the basis of the Government's resolution that this export will be able to be carried out either by the Ministry of the Interior or by the Ministry of Defence, directly, without the need for a mediator. The proposed bill also aims to align the law with the new Civil Code and the Act on Commercial Corporations and to eliminate duplication with the rules of control. Furthermore, the Act introduces certain administrative simplifications for entrepreneurs in the demonstration of military material at trade fairs, exhibitions and presentations, participation in competitions or for testing and testing abroad. Other parts of the amendment include the revision of the definition of military material, the electronic publication of application models, the possibility of extending the authorisation and the extension of the period of validity of licences in the trading of military material. In connection with the newly established institutes, the regulation of administrative charges is being amended. In conclusion, honourable Members, I would like to ask you to support this bill both in this meeting today and in the following legislative process in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently in the second and third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-011-023.u3	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Antonín Seďa, to take up his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-011-023.u4	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, as stated in the explanatory memorandum and, as the Minister said, military material is a sensitive commodity and it is necessary to control foreign trade in this commodity, not only for security but also foreign policy reasons. Since the last amendment to the Act in 2008, new legislation has come into force as a new Civil Code, Control Rules or Commercial Corporations Act. It is also necessary to introduce an information obligation to obtain a broader overview of what military material is being transferred to the territory of the Czech Republic from other Member States of the European Union. [[14.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, the headings of each adjustment can be divided into several groups. The first is the elimination of duplication with the control rules and simplification of export licences for trade fairs, exhibitions, demonstration events. The second is to re-establish the export legislation of military equipment implemented by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence on the basis of a Government resolution which ensures, inter alia, the possibility of selling and exporting unnecessary military material without the need for an intermediary. The third group is the revision of the definition of military equipment. The fourth group of modifications is the introduction of the possibility of publishing application forms by electronic means and the possibility of extending the authorisation of trading in military material, both on territories and on groups of military material, or also the possibility of extending the period of validity of the licence. The fifth group is the modification of the information obligation for the transfer of military material from another Member State of the European Union to the territory of the Czech Republic, the establishment of common rules for the control of exports of military technology and military equipment. The last group is the adjustment of administrative fees. The draft legislation shall affect legal and business individuals, applicants and holders of authorisations to carry out foreign trade in military material. For your information, I state that approximately 200 holders of this authorisation are currently registered. The amendment also affects the authorities of the state administration. So much for my intelligence report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-011-023.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate, but I have no written application for it. I'm asking who's reporting from this point to this point. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final word from the Minister and the rapporteur. It's not like that. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Defence Committee. I therefore recall that, in the context of the amendment of the law, we will vote on the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the command of the Defence Committee as a committee of guarantee, in the vote on order number 77, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Is anyone against it? Thank you. Voting order number 77, registered by 142 Members, for 124, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. There are no proposals for other committees, which is why I am ending this point. I thank the Minister and thank the rapporteur. I'm done with point 23. Before we continue any further points, I note that there has been an apology from the next meeting from 14.30 to 15.30 from Mr Karel Fiedler for personal reasons. Since it took a long time to count the votes, the President of the Election Commission has only now arrived. If you do not object to the President's procedure, I will give Martin Kolovratník the President of the Election Commission to announce to us the outcome of the secret elections that took place at lunch break. I'm asking for peace first! I ask my colleagues to move the discussions that are not related to the House's negotiations into the foyer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-011-023.u6	Thank you and have a good afternoon, colleagues. I especially want to thank the members and members of the electoral committee today, because the census was really long and challenging, so from me as chairman here both publicly and in the tapestry I send thanks for the hard work. I want to say that we are discussing now that we would offer the House, in the foreseeable future, secret elections in electronic form, to rule out both human error and the long census. And now for the results. As I'm sure you've noticed, of the seven electoral points, we haven't implemented one because both candidates have resigned, so I have six results.
