ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u1	99. System of controls in public administration / House document 530/ I ask the President of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Milada Halíková, to state this document. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has repeatedly addressed the issue of the system of control in public administration. In view of the problems that this system has brought so far, we adopted a resolution more than a year ago, namely on 5 March 2014, by which we asked the Chamber of Deputies to include this issue in their negotiations. This is happening today, after more than 13 months. Let me begin by saying that the control system in our country is quite complicated and quite inconspicuous for an uninformed observer or participant. The legal framework for the control of public expenditure is defined by Act No. 320/2001 Coll., on Financial Control in Public Administration, also Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules, for local authorities, Act No. 250/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets. The checks are then carried out in a procedural manner pursuant to Act No. 255/2012 Coll., on Control, the so-called Control Code, and also under the Tax Code, according to which the employees of the financial offices proceed. On-the-spot checks shall be carried out by the staff of the public funds provider and the staff of the Ministry of Finance department, including the financial offices. This can be added to the audit staff of individual audit authorities working under the directives and legislation of the European Union. Only from this brief list, ladies and gentlemen, is the lack of transparency of the whole system, where several control activities of several institutions run parallel, without proper coordination, and the single denominator of this process is the Ministry of Finance, which covers these controls and control institutions by law. It is quite logical that in this system-non-system there are duplications of control activities and, unfortunately, I consider this to be the most serious, to different results of control groups and to different outputs from the checks carried out in the same cases for the same audited bodies. This often has fatal consequences for beneficiaries of public financial support and results in unnecessary administrative burdens and legal unpredictability of the entire control system. Our current legal situation in this matter does not include a closer legal disposition for the audit of national funds provided from national sources in co-financing of operational programmes. Thus, there is also a two-track rule for audits to verify expenditure co-financed by the European Funds and, on the one hand, for national funds for which the statutory audit cannot be used. This does not allow the same approach to be applied and the same system of protection of all funds. We consider this situation absolutely unsustainable in the future. The analysis of the results of the financial controls in the public administration also shows that, while there is an increase in the level of financial management and control in management and executive structures on the one hand, cases of inadequate adjustment, non-compliance or circumvention continue to be revealed. Another problem of poor condition can be seen in the unwillingness of executives of some public bodies to take responsibility for the risks they decide and manage when fulfilling the objectives set. The current legislation is therefore completely inadequate in this area. Current practice with a permanent risk of conflict of interest causes a weakening of both the system of financial management responsibility and the internal audit system and cannot continue to be of sufficient benefit to ensure good governance and control of the management of public funds. From the point of view of the public administration as a whole, this problem is manifested by two extremes. In a number of cases, there is excessive overlap, duplication and conflicting outputs of several control and audit activities of different public bodies, and in other cases there is insufficient control. Therefore, my fellow Members, on behalf of the Committee on Public Administration, I would like to recommend to the Chamber of Deputies, on the basis of its resolution of 5 March 2014, to adopt a resolution in which the House asks the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare material which will clearly inform Members of the current system of controls in public administration and when drawing on public funds and propose the necessary changes. Given the seriousness of this issue, but also some of the steps that I believe are already being taken at the Ministry of Finance in this matter, I believe that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we should receive such information by the end of the first half of this year at the latest, so that the Chamber of Deputies can address this issue at its first September meeting this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I am opening a general debate. Mr. Mr. Horáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u4	Mr President, fellow Members, because I was there and it was my proposal about a year and a half ago to ask what is going on in the Czech Republic, I would just like to make it a little more humanized and give an example to make it clear to us. I'm sure the mayors and mayors who are blessed here will confirm that even if one check goes out, they're not, as they say, out of the water. Because there's a dot or a comma behind a sentence that goes to the financial office, to the finance office, then we're asking to wait, we're asking for forgiveness. Better yet, we'll only get an education ticket. I think it's time for that to change. I think the mayor should be sure, after that one check, that he did everything right, that the money from the grant titles was correctly used. That means one round stamp. Further follow-up checks let the individual participants deal with each other, that is, if the SAO comes somewhere, let them see if the financial office correctly assessed all aspects, and at that point he said yes, it's right or no, you made a mistake. But in this case, we always blame everything on mayors or even legal entities who apply for a grant title. For this reason, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development initiates precisely to find out what the system is, to give support and support to all who apply for subsidies, in the sense that someone checked them out, that someone said yes, you did not doubt, put a round stamp and the end. [[Let's hear it from the ODS desks.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u5	Thank you. Mr. Bendl, correct, yes. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I apologise very quickly, Mrs Šánová apologizes from today's meeting, Mr Koskuba from 14.30 pm, Mrs Chalánková from 10 to 13 pm, and Mrs Golasowská from 10 pm. And now Mr Bendl has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u6	Thank you for the floor. I will take advantage of the fact that no one has applied for technical services and therefore, with a proper remark, although it is a material which is relatively uncontroversial, but concerns the general functioning of the public administration, as the President has said here. I think that most of you who move either in the local or regional sphere will confirm that there is almost nothing going on today without subsidies. Our country will not move at all without subsidies, the public administration will do almost nothing without subsidies, the state almost also does not, because we are being forwarded everywhere and almost every state institution that misses around this subsidy wants to have the right of control. But then what the Prime Minister said here happens is that there are duplications, somewhere even triplits. This is one quite serious thing, which often in the process of deciding whether something should be physically done, whether there is an investment or a project to be carried out, so the decision-making times are going to get much longer. That's one negative trait. The other negative thing is that there's absolute legal uncertainty here that one organ that controls one thing will tell you that it's all right, and the other will find some mistake and say everything is not okay. And the third will find a completely different mistake and at that time the council, mayors or other bodies, regional councils etc. They just don't know how they're supposed to act in this thing, because we live in a period of criminalization everywhere. 'Cause it's got to do with the subsidies where anybody wants to lobby. We are in a situation where the state administration has a lot of people employed by dealing with control, but the result is that everyone is afraid to decide what is actually right. So in the end, the whole thing goes to trial and the project isn't implemented. I have also experienced, I can give an example of the time when the Minister of Health Rath spent with his checks at the county office not for weeks, but for months. Over the course of those months, the control authorities were replaced several times because they had already rejected the pressure from the Ministry of Health at the time for the bullying they had made towards the region. They were there for a few months so they wouldn't find out anything, but the operation of the office itself was disrupted. I think we need to look at the control system. I'm not saying there should be less control. Let the controls be more, but the efficiency is higher, so that several organs do not go to check one and the same, but rather to need more control of something that is not normally available. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u7	Yes, and I will ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. If you don't, I'm done. I am opening up a detailed debate. I will ask President Halíková to refer to the resolution adopted by the committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u8	Yes, thank you. So you all have the motion for a resolution submitted as press 530 and it is the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 5th meeting of 5 March 2014.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u9	Madam President, I have not yet noted a specific term in your speech, which is not in the motion for a resolution. So if you wish us to impose a deadline on the government by the end of July 2015, we can modify it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u10	I originally said by the end of the first half of the year that this item should be placed at the House meeting in September. So by the end of the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-005-099.u11	Which I think is by the end of July 2015. But I'm not in any dispute. So we would modify the resolution that the Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare material which will clearly inform Members of the current system of controls in the public administration and when drawing public funds, by the end of the first half, i.e. by the end of June. I'm sorry, not until the end of July. By the end of the first half of 2015. It's all clear now. There's an application for check-out, so I'm asking for a new registration, and as soon as the numbers are settled, we're going to vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution and the deadline by the end of the first half, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 164, registered 138, for 135, there was no one against. This proposal was adopted. That's how we ran out of point 99. Let's continue with the point.
