ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-008-056.u1	56. Government bill amending Act No. 47/2002 Coll., on the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and on the amendment of Act No. 2/1969 Coll., on the establishment of ministries and other central bodies of the state administration of the Czech Republic, as amended, as amended /German press 545/ - first reading This point was interrupted on Wednesday 15. 9. after the opening words, the debate has not been opened, so I am opening the general debate at this time. Anyone reporting for the general debate? Member's rapporteur Michal Kučera. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-008-056.u2	Thank you for the floor. The debate was closed during my news report, so I would like to say it whole. We are, of course, discussing the amendment to the Small and Medium Business Support Act, i.e. the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act, which separates itself from the CzechInvest agency, the part that deals with the administration of the drawing of European funds. The division of CzechInvest into two parts, i.e. the part dedicated to supporting foreign investment in the Czech Republic and the part devoted to the administration of structural funds - the topic has been here for many years, essentially since the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. I wonder if it is better to go the way of the merger of both agencies, i.e. CzechTrade agencies, i.e. trade support, and CzechInvest, i.e. investment support, and of which exempt the administration of the fund from this merged agency. As far as I know, such activity has already appeared here, but only the first step has taken place, and that is the connection, I believe, of the foreign networks of both agencies. However, the current government does not want to continue in further steps leading to the merger of these agencies, as far as I know. However, the exclusion of the administration of funds outside CzechInvest is enforced by the European Commission, which insists that the funds must be administered by a state authority, i.e. a ministry or a subordinate organisation that is subject to the Civil Service Act. The Government's proposal therefore means that the simplest possible way, i.e. by deliberation, is to separate all agendas from the CzechInvest agency, including staff related to the administration of funds, and a new so-called. Agency for Enterprise and Innovation. The effectiveness of the law, and therefore in fact the creation of the agency, is assumed to be as of 1. 1. 2016. It is possible to factor a number of substantive items into the government's proposal. First of all, it's a time delay. The Agency will not start working until the beginning of 2106, which is too late, this problem should have been solved earlier. The government has been operating for over a year and a half, and only now is this proposal coming to the House. The new agency is supposed to manage the drawdown of funds in the programming period 2014 to 2020, i.e. it will actually start managing the drawdown in the middle of the planning period. I would also like to draw attention to the inappropriately chosen name of the Agency. In addition to the CzechTrade Business Support Agency and the CzechInvest Business Support Agency, we will still have the Agency for Enterprise and Innovation. For ordinary entrepreneurs, it is completely insubordinate and incomprehensible to what the agency is actually dedicated or going to do. I would like to point out that, even in the proposal of the amendment itself, the petitioner in Article 1 (2) may have been mistaken. 3 renamed the Czech Trade Support Agency CzechTrade to the Czech Business Support Agency CzechTrade, so, as you can see, the translator is not entirely clear about what the agency's name is. The explanatory memorandum does not mention this change either in general or in a specific part. So much for my opening report. I believe that these issues will be discussed in committee because I think that the business environment should go the way of simplification, not consolidation, and this thing deserves a rather thorough debate, because the administration of the Structural Funds is, of course, absolutely essential for the Czech business environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-008-056.u3	I thank and ask if anyone else is joining the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate and I am asking whether there is an interest in final words. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-008-056.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few more explanatory words, especially since the debate is divided into two parts, which is never entirely happy. About what the rapporteur said about bringing CzechTrade and CzechInvest together, it would be better. I would just like to explain that one of my predecessors, Minister Kuba, did the operation a little differently than is generally perceived. He did that by taking foreign networks from both CzechTrade and CzechInvest and transferring them directly to the Ministry. He's kind of stood up and made a parallel network that he didn't know how to deal with in the world, because in the world, he knows how to do it, that he's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the state network, and if he wants to do business, he's gonna do it to another agency, often they're doing it to the economic chambers, it doesn't necessarily have to be under the direct influence of the state. And we went back to this normal model, that the network was shut down and it was transferred back to both CzechTrade and CzechInvest. And if these institutions are joining together, it's purely political debate. I personally think that they should not be together because investments are available and it makes sense to have branches in about seven places, while trade is in the world, therefore CzechInvest has seven foreign branches and CzechTrade has about 50. That's the point. Then the thing is, we're late and why it has to be. For a long time it looked like we were going to explain this to the Commission and that CzechInvest would work - the part, the division that deals with investment, will remain under the code of work and those who make European funds will go under the service law. After a long debate, it was only in the spring that it proved really impossible and that the section that makes the funds must be under the service law. At the same time, I would like to say why it will not pass, virtually. followed by a logical question why the rest of CzechInvest could not be there. He couldn't, because the task of the section, the part of CzechInvest that makes foreign investments, is to be in a difficult position as a middleman between business, he has to deal with potential investors and he has to deal with the state administration at the same time. So we need a more flexible situation there, not entirely civil servants, but some kind of middlemen between the business sphere and the state authorities. Therefore, CzechInvest should remain under the Labour Code and therefore we are doing this operation. And I'd just like to ask for another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-008-056.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur whether he is - he is not interested in the final words. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? This is not the case. We will proceed to the vote. Before I start it, I'm going to check you all out and ask you to register with your cards again. We will take the vote. Anyone who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Sorry. I am opening the vote and I ask you to vote now. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 233, to which 78 are registered, for 76. I note that the proposal has been adopted and that this press will be dealt with by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. I am asking if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. This is not the case, so in this case I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee, and I conclude on this point. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
