ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u1	38. Government bill amending Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services and on the amendment of certain laws (the Postal Services Act), as amended /German press 509/ - first reading I ask the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec to justify the proposal submitted under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider this bill to be necessary and very important, as it is intended to help respond to problems in financing the activities of the holder of the postal licence, which is currently the state enterprise Česká pošta. This is imposed by law a number of obligations in ensuring available care for customers of postal services in the prescribed quality throughout the Czech Republic. The fulfilment of these obligations, in particular with the maintenance of a large branch network, involves considerable costs. These costs become part of the accounting under -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u3	I'm very sorry, Minister, but I have to make order in the House to ask for peace. And please, Minister, keep going when the House is quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u4	These funds or these costs should currently have been covered by the so-called the compensation fund. After the debate and experience with this institute, we found that this institute is flawed and does not fulfil its role. The Czech Post has clearly the largest share of this market and therefore the current wording of the Act changes the payment of compensation from the existing compensation fund to a direct payment from the state budget. The Czech Post will have to negotiate with the Czech Telecommunications Office about the amount of the payment and its proof as the holder of the postal license, or the new holder of the postal licence, and will of course have to prove its costs, prove its costs and justify these costs properly before the payment takes place. In order to ensure control over the amount of expenditure from the State budget, the net cost payment mechanism is supplemented by a limit, i.e. the ceiling, which for the period 2015 with payment in 2016, is set at 700 million. CZK, a year later, to the sum of 600 million. CZK and from 2017 to CZK 500 million. CZK with this maximum permissible limit being maintained for further years. In 2017, the Czech Telecommunications Authority should decide who will be the holder of the postal licence for the next period. At that time, the Czech Telecommunications Authority also lays down conditions for licence holders which may be different from the current situation and may possibly make public service in this area cheaper. Furthermore, the proposal contains some changes based mainly on the practical knowledge of the ČTÚ, from which it is particularly possible to mention partial changes in legislation in access to the infrastructure of the holder of the postal licence, which should contribute to greater transparency of relations between individual entities on the postal market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u5	Thank you, Home Secretary. Now please the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsman's representative has explained this amendment in a rather exhaustive manner, so I can limit myself to a brief recapitulation and also to a few relevant observations. I will add my own comment later in the debate. Government bill amending Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services, as amended, House press 509, including its justification, could be an extremely complex impression for an uninterested person, but in my view this is a technically simple matter, however, paradoxically with possible systemic serious consequences, because it is no less than compensation for net costs, i.e. the method of financing the Czech Post, one of the last state enterprises in the Czech Republic. The main objective of this amendment should, as already mentioned, be the setting of a sustainable long-term financing mechanism for the net costs of the Czech Post. This mechanism should ensure that our citizens provide basic postal services in an optimised quality in the future, through every available network of postal establishments. The government's proposal itself presents, as the petitioner may have also said, four options for possible financing of the payment so-called. universal services from a zero solution, i.e. maintaining the current situation, through two in some ways similar alternatives to the common remuneration of the universal service by the State and also by the compensation fund, to the option of payment of net costs only from the State budget. The variant mentioned in point IV in the Houses of Press 509, according to the applicant, the Ministry of the Interior, the one for the state apparatus, the Czech Post and our citizens, should be the most advantageous, even though the cost of the state budget would be CZK 1,650 million. The discussion of the proposed amendment and then, in particular, our final vote will tell us where the method of payment of the universal service of the Czech Post will be, and maybe even its fate will be taken to the future. I would also remind you that, in this context, this is in addition to the primary objective, namely further security of services provided to citizens, the fate of almost 32,000 Czech Post employees and the existence of 3,200 postal branches. Colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your attention and I would like to propose to the House of Commandments of this amendment also to the Committee of Budget, as this may be a rather significant intervention in the state budget. At the same time, Mr President, I would like to ask you for the opportunity to speak in the subsequent debate, after you have opened it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which, if the rapporteur is interested, he has priority rights. prosit, after him, Mr Pilný, then Mr Horáček and Mr Kučera. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u8	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. As I have already mentioned in my intelligence report, which I have tried officially to distinguish from this personal opinion of myself, the submitted amendment can suggest much not only about the further existence of the Czech Post as a state enterprise -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u9	I'm sorry, rapporteur. I will also express my personal opinion and ask the House and Members for peace. And since it's really not quiet here, I'm gonna start naming jammers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u10	- the further existence of Czech Post as a state enterprise, the quality of services provided, as well as the fate of thousands of branches and tens of thousands of postal employees. I would like to say that I too, in accordance with the position of the applicant, tend to the variant under point IV, i.e. to the full payment from the chapter of the state budget, because it is clear to me from the logic of the matter that the state orders basic services in the Czech Post, and therefore he should also pay these net costs and not transfer them unfairly further to other private entities. A different way to pay the basic service by means of the so-called The compensation fund, as discussed by the rapporteur, is probably used only by Estonia, Cyprus, Slovakia and partly Italy from the European Union, and of course only in the combined version. We can also look for a problem with the compensation fund in our country that neither Czech Post nor its competitors want to contribute to it. For this reason, too, the Ministry of the Interior has come up with a proposal for this amendment. In my recommended version of payment purely from the chapter of the public budget, I also see this, perhaps exceedingly naively and overly optimisticly, a higher degree of necessary protection from the possible privatisation of Czech Post. This is a real threat to us, as we have already been able to record such considerations from various channels. In this sense, however, it hurts only to sell the huge assets of the Czech Post, I am thinking primarily of real estate, and this sale is already under way. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] On the Margo process of creating this government amendment, however, I have to note not only to my regret that it is known that the Minister of Finance Mr.Andrej Babiš has argued publicly in the long term, he may also claim that the Czech Post generates profits and accounts has over CZK 2 billion and also has a number of other reserves, and therefore should not receive money from the state budget, at least for 2015. Yes, that is true, but it is only a sort of imaginary half of the economic reality, because the other half are also illustrated by undisputed facts, and these are, for example, that the Czech Post fell by one fifth before tax last year, namely CZK 241 million, and sales decreased by half a billion, which may indicate to the average economist the unsustainable state of the Czech Post's financing for the future. The effect of the compensation fund appears to be totally unfair in the current contours, on the grounds that the Czech Post itself puts 75 per cent in it, and also that even 1 per cent of the net cost of the holder of the postal licence is considered to be so-called fair and is no longer compensated for in this way. The Minister of Finance's view was, as I said, even less than a month ago, in a relatively fundamental conflict with the declared position of the petitioner, the Ministry of the Interior. However, I believe that this serious and dangerous difference in the economics of not only the state enterprise, and so, in turn, the economy of the state has already been overcome and resolved, and that today, when the government presents this amendment to us, it is already consistent and consistent in its position. Although I must say that, unfortunately, I am not personally sure in this regard, and I fear that, in this context, possible compromises and concessions between ministries, which could eventually partially or fully obscure the principle of this amendment itself. That is why I prefer to ask once again the representative of the petitioner and also the absent Minister of Finance whether this is the case or not, because the answer to this question is not only for my decision-making cardinal and press releases I do not always consider a relevant source of information. In the case of a confirmed government consensus, I believe that neither the KSČM Members nor, for example, the TOP 09 Members, in unity with the words of their Vice-President Kalousek from 14 January on Czech Television, will have a problem with further financing of universal service directly from the state budget, and therefore the adoption of this necessary amendment should practically no longer stand in the way. So thank you, to those who have listened, for your attention, and I look forward to the next process of approving this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u11	Thank you, Mr Valent. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, it is indisputable that when the State provides service to its citizens through an organisation which is 100% owned by the State, it should also be paid for. There's no doubt about it. There is also no doubt that the compensation fund to which this service is to be financed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u13	I am terribly sorry, but, Mr Member, I cannot hear you at all, so I ask Mr Jandák to keep his voice down, Mr Svoboda and others, to stop talking. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u14	Thank you. So it is also clear that the compensation fund that was created for these purposes is not working. None, then. On the other hand, this amendment, as presented, does not count on a number of changes and problems that will occur until 2018, where the maximum contribution of the State to the Fund, which should be financed by the universal service, is planned directly in the law. What until then... [[14.50 hours]] So the first thing we can question is the calculation of the loss of the Czech Post resulting from the universal fund. Calculated at about 1.77 miles. Crowns. This has never been checked and audited, we do not know very well what is included in the cost, and we know that the Czech Post is already compensating for the universal service in some way or trying to deal with it. That's the first dubious thing to do. Second thing. We're talking about the horizon for the next three years, and that's where the postal market will radically change. From next year onwards, there will be a rule in the European Union that electronic communication is based on a written level, including in court. Of course, this will be used by both public and public authorities. We already know that tax returns, if anyone has a data box, will have to be filed electronically under penalty, as well as mass VAT control reports. This is also used by commercial services, which directly charge or dispose of the service directly by sending documents. In my experience, I know that, for example, this pension insurance report that's always been in my mail, today the provider has already set up a website for it, gave me a password and access to printing it out. This means that the volume of mail delivered will decrease dramatically in this way. We already have mailboxes full of most advertising materials or communications coming from the authorities, and rarely there is any other correspondence. We have text messages, we have e-mails, we have phones, so the volume of this communication is going to change dramatically. It is very difficult to estimate the cost of universal service at this point. It is true that the law provides for a maximum amount to be limited in some way. Of course, the Czech Post will stand before it becomes an organization that will fail if it respects the current business model, constantly to greater and greater losses. Her business was financed by bulk shipments of invoices for electricity, water, telecommunications, etc., which gradually disappear. The Czech Post will have to deal with it somehow. It puts tremendous pressure on her funding. Clearly, then, he will try to spend the maximum amount on universal service logically. Another complication that arises because there is a plan for some branches to become franchises, or even to cancel, which will create a problem, because the Frenchman must necessarily be transferred to the universal service obligation and there will be further negotiations on how much is to be paid for. All of this led me to conclude that, as the law is proposed at this point, it will certainly have to be the subject of a big discussion. Personally, I have considered several options on how to stand up to this novel. There is no point in denying the law, because universal service is still and will have to be financed somehow. There's not much point in redefining the law and going back to rework. What can change there - the novel is quite simple. I have considered interrupting until the moment it is clarified where the Czech Post is going, how it will carry out its business and how it will stand, for example, to data boxes that can be communicated with citizens very effectively, but so far they are used very poorly and we are perhaps the only country in the world where data mailboxing costs more than a letter. These basic things should probably be resolved until we consider what the amendment will look like and what the parameters should be. I have now completed a meeting with the Minister of the Interior in the morning, who has assured me that these documents are ready and will be delivered to the potential guarantee committee, to which the Economic Committee will undoubtedly be delivered. We will also request a report from the Czech Telecommunications Authority on how it intends to address the financing of this universal service, how it will proceed, what rules we need to know where we stand. Fortunately, or unfortunately, because we have perhaps a parliamentary holiday ahead of us, so the committees will not discuss this until the beginning of September, that means that we have almost three months at this point in time to have the data that we will receive and which should be the basis for the committee's decision, of course the Economic Committee, hence the budget, because that is an intervention in the state budget, so that, on the basis of this analysis, we can make a responsible statement on the amendment. This means that I have summised the objections here, but I will not propose an interruption of this point and amendments to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u15	I thank Mr Pilný for his speech. I wish him that his optimism with parliamentary holidays lasted a long time. Another duly registered member is Mr Horáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, enough has been said about the compensation fund. The rapporteur here has declared how few states have joined. I'd like to take it a little differently. First of all, there was a figure of 700 million, 600 million, 500 million. I have verified what kind of tribe it was actually coming from, and I have found in the explanatory memorandum a single document where it was written that the decision of the President of the Czech Telecommunications Authority was decided that what is to be valued is 751 million, these are the net costs, and they were therefore taken for the basis of 2015. That's what I'd like to ask the Minister. Another thing that I have been interested in for a very long time is that very briefly, let's say in one sentence, on page 31, it was justified that it was considered, as Mr Pilnýý here said, about franchise, which means that it is also the mail that would be in the municipalities, in the shops, but at the same time there is no sentence as to how it will be realized, that is, what it will cost those municipalities or traders, how they will be trained, how they will be controlled. That's not in this law at all, no one's dealing with it. There's just a reference to the fact that the cost is actually going to go down, it's going to be 600 million, then it's going to be 500 million. That's one of the things I'd like to ask the Minister, as it was meant to be. Another thing that is there - that some other services that will be provided will also reduce the payment of the State. I wonder if this is meant to be such absurdities as that Mrs Postmaster has to meet x points, there is even a form for it, and if she doesn't, she goes down with a salary of 500 crowns or more. I myself witnessed that she bought two more animals on the window, jumping like that, and she said, "I'm done, I'm gonna get a full paycheck." If this is in this law too, then of course it's absolutely wrong. I think so, indeed, there is a great deal to be done in this spirit about what our mail will look like. On the one hand, I am glad that the Minister has succeeded, or that he will succeed, and I believe that from the state budget to get money from the Czech Post, where there are 32,000 people, so that it does not have to be released. I know, on the other hand, it is said that franchise works in Germany, for example, absolutely 100%. It just needs to be realized that in the 1990s, the German state, where the franchises started, first filled the register for franchises, and then the franchises could have been 100% coverage. Some of the data that are there are misleading because there are a lot of European Union countries listed there, but it is not related to the population density, so somewhere there can be a post office less, and yet the mail is closer to the citizen than it is with us. I intercede too much - and it didn't come out of this law - for not disturbing the mail. There's no mention of it. I would just like the state fund that will contribute there to really guarantee all citizens the availability of mail and that, say, municipalities and cities, but also private entrepreneurs do not want the partner's system to be about it: either you pay 50 per cent, you participate or we say: citizens, we wanted to keep the mail here, but the mayor said he wouldn't pay from his budget, and that's why we're going to cancel it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u17	I thank Mr Horáček. Before I give the floor to Mr Kučer, Mr Ivan Adam made a point of fact. Adamec, sorry. I apologize to the honourable Member for not being able to come up with his name. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u18	I accept, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I wouldn't want to see what the chairman of the Economic Committee say. I completely agree that, given the high probability of parliamentary holidays, there is sufficient time for analysis. I also think that the postal market must change significantly. The question of the number of employees of the Czech Post - you know, it will be related to what the Czech Post everything except universal service will do, under what conditions, and there I think there is a large space. However, I wanted to say that if the analyses are not, then I have the same opinion, probably as the President, that then this bill needs to be stopped, to return to first reading in case we adopt it today, and to start taking it seriously again, because without the analyses and without the assumptions that await us in the near future, I do not think that we should approve the bill in this way. I have nothing against the principle of the law, not at all. I don't think I'd be too upset over there. Again, I remind you that this should take place, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u19	I thank Mr Adamc. Mr Michal Kučera, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u20	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, many of the things I have already wanted to say here have been said by Mr Pilný, the chairman of our economic committee, with whom I am much in agreement in this regard. I would still mention some things here and also point out that the aim of this amendment is to introduce a subsidy from the state budget for the Czech Post, amounting to up to 700 million for 2015. CZK, for 2016 up to 600 million. CZK and in the years following up to a maximum of 500 mil. Crowns. The present system, where all postal service providers are considered non-compliant by the government to compensate for the costs of compulsory non-profitable services, i.e. the provision of postal services. In other words, inadequately subsidizing český mail. That's why the state post wants to shove another -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u21	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, once again I ask the House for peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u22	So the government decided to smash the state post office from the state budget. It argues that this is also the case in other EU countries, where the State also contributes to the provision of postal services from the state budget. I would merely mention that the amendment introduces the obligation of the postal service provider to have a draft contract for the provision of postal services on his website, and the State may challenge the proposal published in administrative proceedings and order its modification. The amendment is to enter into force, and this is, please, essential to 1. 1. 2016 also regulates the grant for the provision of postal services in 2015, and I think it is unacceptablely retroactive. Here I would really very much like to turn against another government plan to spend taxpayers' money. It's about half a billion a year. I hope the Minister of Finance Babiš will join me in this. I will not be as helpful as the Chairman of the Economic Committee. I would also like to propose, given what has already been said, and given what I have said here, rejecting this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u23	I thank Mr Kučer. I'm registering his motion to dismiss the proposed bill. I'm asking who else is applying. Mr. Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said here that the issue of post offices and their branches and branches of the Czech Post is quite the issue of municipalities and their issues. The rural branches are 3 314 with us, and the issue of their interference was very much affected by the Association of Local Authorities. The petition against the abolition of rural branches contains 100,000 signatures. So the effort of the municipalities to preserve the post offices is obvious. And the question of how much the state can handle it economically is another matter. As you can see, the law is trying to solve this matter. I think that the government is positive about this in my opinion, but it is only necessary to consider to what extent certainty will actually be given to the municipalities in the perspective of maintaining the post office. The municipalities lease much of the space for the operation of post offices and want to know how it will be in the future. I intercede to ensure that the financing of mail is resolved as soon as possible, but secondly, as clearly as possible, so that it really brings to the future the certainty that the mail will continue to be used for citizens, as it is so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u25	I thank Mr Zahradník. Another duly signed up is the President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u26	Thank you for the floor. Unlike many previous speakers, I do not think that the state budget should subsidize the activities of the state post office. And just because it's 700, 600, 500 doesn't mean I support it. Perhaps it is because I live in a village that has over 1,800 inhabitants, and the post office has never been there. And without a doubt, if they say they have 3,300 branches, there's certainly not 3,300 larger municipalities than this one. But that's not important. The important thing is, and that is what we should talk about, what is the operating time at rural branches. Very often, people who commute to work are unable to pick up recommended mail because opening hours are not adapted for workers. Very often, to pick up a letter, they have to take a vacation. That certainly seems absurd to you, as it is to me. This aspect bothers me in this debate, and this is in the state's hands, and the Czech Post does not need the law to adapt opening hours not only to those who do not work because it is important for seniors, but also to those who work. I think each of you in every county will find the mail I'm talking about, which ends at 3:30, 4:00 p.m. Then you come home, you have a registered letter, and when are you supposed to pick it up when you commute to work? Very often there are no job opportunities in that small village. And that's what I miss about the debate. I think that's more important than whether it's 700, 600 or 500 million, because I don't think that's the right principle. And that's what we should be debating, and that's what executives do. This is not a matter of us as legislative or legislative powers. I wonder, Minister, if you do anything about this, in a debate with the management of the Czech Post. Since it's not about being open 12 hours a day, I don't call after it, I know it's not economical, but that opening hours are adapted to the fact that people also commute to work and come home at some usually later afternoon. The classic 9 through 12, 13 through 15.30 is good for those who don't commute to work, but those who commute don't stand a chance. Of course, I am not talking about big cities, there is a completely different situation, and the branch network is denser and very often there are mail desks on Saturdays, Sundays, which, by the way, is also a case for Members. If you are in Prague all week and you do not have mail in your city, which is open on Saturday and Sunday, you do not have a chance to pick up the recommended mail because you are not at home and you cannot physically go for it. Ask the Minister if you will solve this problem in any way with the management of the Czech Post, because this would contribute much more to the availability of the service than whether we will determine the minimum number of branches by law. This does not solve anything due to the availability of the service especially for our active citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u27	I thank Mr Stanjur. With a factual remark, Mr Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The first point is that if the State is establishing a service for citizens that is a definition of loss, we do not need to do any analyses on that, so it should also finance it if it undertakes to do so. Talking about whether or not this is supposed to be on the budget seems irrelevant to me. If this service is provided by the State, it must be expressed in some way. It is precisely that if we discuss the proposals on committees and open this law that will allow us to parametricize the universal service. Because it's somehow parametrized, there are some conditions, but we can change those, of course. That's the thing that he's going to do in some way to the ČTÚ. So then we can talk absolutely clearly about when the mail is supposed to be opened and how postal services are to be adjusted, because that is the essence of the universal service and we can somehow parametrize it. For this reason, I also believe that the motion to reject the law lacks logic, because if we reject the law, we will not solve anything at all and it will still work the same way with the loss and the quality of the services will correspond to that. So we should address this problem as Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u29	I thank Mr Pilný. With another point of fact, Mr Kučera, Mr Stanjura after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u30	Thank you for the floor. This time I have to disagree with my colleague Pilný for the following reason. I personally believe that the government and the petitioners are to submit to the House laws of such quality that should not be transformed fundamentally into committees. And that the custom is here, and that it is more and more often, that committees are being formed, that there are huge amendments, today we have witnessed it, when there are amendments, government amendments that are being pushed through the Members then here, they are reciting at this table, not even possibly how many times they do not know what is going on there, because it is being processed in the relevant ministry. It can happen, I don't rule it out, it can happen. But we already know we're gonna get into this situation today. And that's why I say let the petitioner, therefore the Ministry, prepare the law properly. Let him talk about the parametrics you talked about, make sure he does it there and bring the law back here so that the committees can discuss the well-prepared legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u31	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u32	If it were as simple as the chairman of the Economic Committee says, perhaps it would be nice that the state would not order something that does not pay. But in the spirit of what you're saying, I want to ask you, if we prepare an amendment to the municipal law, where there will be a simple change, that the state is giving a contribution to the administration's performance, and we change the simple diction that the state is paying for the administration's performance, that is exactly the principle that you were talking about, I will be the first in favour. I told you once, I didn't even convince the Treasury Minister to do so in my own government. It is not easy at all, and all the finance ministers have resisted it. Maybe there'll be an exception for the first time. Because municipalities and cities are paying for the performance of the state administration. And we're not having this debate about the state ordering it not to pay. [[unintelligible]] I've always argued that when I order an event as a community at a construction company, as a pavement repair, I can hardly give them a contribution to what she did, but they're gonna ask me for everything. But the state doesn't treat municipalities and cities that way. Second example: lump consignments in rail freight transport, which are only done by ČD Cargo, because they are economically disadvantageous. We can't subsidize them. Competition rules do not allow this. So either it will be a universal principle, and I am in favour, because I think at that moment the state will think about what it will order and then it will pay for it. As long as there are various contributions and someone else bears those costs, the state will, and it is whatever the government is, will order more and more services. Because he doesn't pay everything, so why wouldn't he order it if someone else paid for it? I said such a simple solution, that this year 700, 600 and then 500, and we're done. I just don't see it that simple, and I want to have a more detailed debate about it. No doubt that's related to the operation of those branches. And it's a state enterprise. And I think that a better way, and this government has stopped it, for example, transforming the Czech Post into a joint stock company, privatizing minority shares through the stock exchange, introducing other principles of governance into it. The entry of private capital in a minority stake would undoubtedly improve the performance of the Czech Post as a state enterprise or joint stock company. [[Attention on time.]] Those are things I would definitely support. Not automatically. If the state wants it, let them pay for it. Always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u33	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Zahradník after him with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u34	Mr President, thank you. You'd like to remind yourself of how it all developed in time. The loss rate of the Czech post is evident, it is clear that in recent years the service has been loss-making. The government has tried to address this by reducing the number of branches. First, the effort resulted in the draft decree, which was to set the minimum number of branches around 2 000. And that was the action that triggered the petition activity of about a hundred thousand signatures. Another effort was to issue government orders. Raise it from the level of the decree to the government's decree as government revenue. Well, it's also obvious that we can't handle it just by regulating the number of branches. The municipalities represented by the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic or by the Association of Local Authorities are clearly opposed to this. So now here is trying to find a way to subsidize from the state budget or from some other source of mail activity financially. Here it should be recalled that there is a meritorial comment from the Association of Local Authorities, which is that their aim is to make the minimum network include 3,300 branches. That's what they insist on, and I think their claim makes sense. And if this is solved, then you need to look at how the mail works, so that the fact that a person gets a registered letter is not a big problem for him so he doesn't have to look for time to pick up at the time of his vacation. I think that's the second thing. So first to set a minimum number, to agree with the municipalities, to find financial resources, and then, of course, to solve the way the mail operates in order to suit the citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u35	I thank Mr Zahradník and now I will ask the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start from the end and by your means to Mr Zahradník. I don't know a mayor who wants to close his mail. I haven't found one yet. As far as the world went, I didn't find any mayor who would say, "Close my mail, I don't care." The government here clearly declares that it wants to keep the number of branches at the current level, which is 3,200 branches. ČTÚ in the past by its decree - and it is the Czech Telecommunications Office, which sets out the conditions for the holders of the postal licence, and in this licence the terms of the licence are also specified. For example, the condition of the licence is the number of stone branches, the condition of the licence is delivery, i.e. day of administration plus one. The licence holder must simply deliver the letter by the second day. And there are a lot of other conditions that the state sets through its regulator, independent, and this is the Czech Telecommunications Authority. This means, do not ask me to name in the law what the licence holder should do when the Czech Telecommunications Authority is doing it. It's just not possible. There you can only refer to the ČTÚ decree. The ČTÚ decree is currently going through a debate in the government, and I assume... A passionate debate in the left corner, probably about the post office. [[He's looking at ČSSD MEPs on the stand.]] The controller has to lay down the terms, so we've established the law, those are the terms. There's words like putting money in the mail. The post office has been waiting for this since 2013 - it is waiting for the institute, which has been implemented by the previous governments, i.e. the compensation fund, to work. He's been waiting for money since 2013. He doesn't have it yet. A similar compensation fund in telecommunications has failed completely. That means, we just want the compensation fund institute to be contributed to by competitors on the market, and there is, for example, no penalty, if they don't contribute, and they're already talking about not contributing, so we can let the state enterprise bleed out. I'd just like my colleagues to explain to me the difference between a subsidised bus ticket, a subsidised train ticket and a subsidized letter sign. It's exactly the same principle. Of course, the fact that we will have to notify the law and agree with the European Commission is what we are counting on. I have spoken with President Pilný, we have a deal. I asked the CEO immediately. Already today, all available documents will be sent to my colleague Pilný's e-mail. These are gradually the materials that we gave you in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies. It is a strategy for the development of Czech Post and it is the project Posta Partner. The Postal Partner project was also sent to all Members of Parliament, at least I hope. If you don't, I'll fix it. Within the framework of this project, the Post Office Partner is a view of the Czech Post, which aims to keep out of the 3,200 branches this year during the ten years 700 branches that it will operate itself, and for the rest it has found partners, franchises. Whether it's a businessman, whether it's a community, whether it's a chain, we'll try not to have to close any of the branches. The government's intention is not to close branches. The government's intention is for Czech Post to be effective. [[15.20 hours]] In terms of how the Czech Post is to be modernised, I think there are some examples here. Czech Post disposes of inefficient property. Finally, after years, Czech Post will start accepting all credit cards and not only ČSOB credit cards from New Year's Day, or rather from the third quarter of this year. Czech Post begins the debate with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and with individual mayors over the operating hours of individual branches. I fully agree with you, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, that it is essential for the post office to start doing its services to be tailored. The citizens, the citizens, so that when they work until the evening, they have a chance at least one day a week to sort out their things in the early hours. Otherwise, the mail doesn't do the part we imagine it does. I totally agree with you there and there the trend and the pressure of the Ministry of the Interior as a founder will, of course, continue. That means, I want to make it clear that beyond the existing compensation mechanism... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] We do not want to give the Czech Post any money beyond the framework of the existing compensation mechanism. We want to replace the existing non-functional compensation fund with compensation from the state budget. The last thing I'm gonna... [[Another pause. The president of the gong is asking for peace.]] Thank you. I don't mean to say beg, but he asked - let's not call it a grant. We pay for the service we ordered and which of the nature of the matter is loss-making. We will not subsidize the Czech Post for selling insurance, for selling perhaps no more stuffed animals, but let's give it moose. We want to compensate the loss of Czech Post from the operation of loss-making branches, which it needs for universal service in the public interest. That's the context of the law. On the rapporteur's question through Mr President, if we could agree with the Minister of Finance. Yes, we did. This is the subject of the compromise, and that compromise primarily means in the ceilings you have there, and that's the maximum possible. The Czech Post will still have to bring its statement, it will give the ČTÚ, ČTÚ will assess the validity of the costs, and even if it were a billion, it will only receive the ceiling. The ceiling is set at CZK 700 million for this year. Why is this possible for this year? This will include transitional provisions that will allow this institute to be used not retrospectively, but on the basis of transitional provisions already for this year. That's the design of the law. Otherwise, I am ready for the debate and I am very looking forward to the debate in the Economic Committee or other committees, the Czech Post is ready, the Director General is ready to come to the House and defend his demands and position. I'll come with him. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u37	I thank the Home Secretary. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I am asking about the final words of the appellant, or the rapporteur, as the case may be. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word, nor is the appellant. We will therefore vote on the proposals that have been tabled. First of all, a motion was tabled to reject the proposed bill, which was submitted by Mr Kučera. I have an application for a check-out, so I'm signing you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the rejection of the proposal as suggested by Mr Michal Kučera. Initiating vote to dismiss this bill. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 62, registered 153 Members and Members, for 27, against 118. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote on who wants to order the motion to discuss the economic committee as a guarantee, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 63, registered 157 Members and Members, for 150, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but the rapporteur proposed to order the Committee to the budgetary committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. Please, Mr. Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u38	Thank you for the floor. I propose that this press should also be dealt with by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u39	Thank you. Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to other committees for discussion. First of all, the commandment to the Committee on Budgets, as proposed by the rapporteur. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this proposal to the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 64, 158 Members and Members, for 125, against 4, we have commanded the Committee on Budgets. The last proposal is the proposal by Mr Klán on the commandment of this bill to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I have begun the vote on the commandment to this committee. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is vote number 65, registered to 158 Members of Parliament, for 145, against no one. I note that the proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as other committees. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill. Mr. Koníček? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u40	Mr President, I would like to raise one procedural question. We voted this morning that point 97, the postal union, would be after point 114. But I can see ahead of the post union point 36, so I want to ask you what resolution paragraph 97 is included on that board. I want to ask the same question in the contract register, where we already voted yesterday that it would be the first point after the third reading block. Either it was supposed to be a block of third readings defined, which means 14.30 hours, but we didn't finish the block of third readings, so I don't think it meets the conditions that we voted for yesterday. I would like a legislative opinion on how those two points got there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u41	I thank Mr Koníček for this question, Vice-President Jermanová will be happy to explain it to you. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u42	Have a nice afternoon, everyone. I just want to clarify that points 37, 39, 36 have been firmly included since 14.30 and, according to the previous resolution adopted by the Organising Committee, we have voted that we will not break the programme and we will continue on the basis of the points, which is why point 97 and 18 are included in the fixed points. It's consulted with the legislative department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u43	Well, thank you. Is this an answer sufficient for Mr Koníček? It's not enough, but what can we do more about it? Mr President of ODS Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u44	I don't think we can say that there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if someone points that out, that's enough. It's not enough. In my opinion, if the item was to be the register of contracts after third readings, it was to be launched at 14.30, it was to be interrupted. [[Unintelligible.]] Apparently, there weren't any points from the third reading block before, and so was the post office union. That's impossible. It's not the content of those points, but next time we're gonna flip it over during the day, those points are going to be ranked as somebody... I don't care that some legislation recommended it. When is the block of third reading, after which is to come point 18, and where is the point, now I don't know exactly number, 114, when before point 97 does not shine 114, but 36, and 114 was not today. [[Mr Koníček suggests: 114]] If it's up to point 114, that's okay. 114 may be Friday, I don't think so, it'll be Mr. President, maybe next Wednesday, and after 114 it's gonna be 97, otherwise it's just not possible. We didn't get to 114 at all, so how come we're discussing the point that was supposed to be after 114 when 114 wasn't yet and it's hanging on the board? I wonder who told the House leadership, and if it was someone, I don't know, he should find another job.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-005-038.u45	According to my information, and according to current traffic, we continue after postal services point 37, this is the population register, point 39, right of assembly, point 36, and at 17 o'clock we will deal with excise duties. Is that okay? Okay. Thank you. I will ask the legislation to modify the information board, and perhaps Mr Stanjura and Mr Koníček will be satisfied. In case you don't, please contact me again. Thank you. The next item is:
