ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u1	143. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 /German press 617/ - 3rd reading I ask that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance take the position at the rapporteur's desk... I'm sorry, Minister, I'm sure you'll understand that I'd prefer your chairman to the MP's club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. I'm sorry, I forgot you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this proposal. It is after some consultation with all the presidents of the parliamentary clubs. I would like to address you with a proposal to amend the agenda, namely to include points 36, 37 and 38. These are House prints 578, 579 and 580. These are the gambling laws that we didn't have time to discuss yesterday, and I tried unsuccessfully to include these three prints this morning for tomorrow's late afternoon, so that we could include them today after the state budget and those related prints that are on the board, that is, specifically, after item 146. I propose this procedure. To vote first of all on: The Chamber of Deputies agrees that there are extraordinary reasons for the agenda to be amended after 30 minutes from the beginning of the meeting and, secondly, that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to a firm inclusion, at today's hearing, item 146. I would like to ask you very much to discuss these important three prints after the state budget today so that, and this is also an agreement with colleagues, we are able to end at around 19 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u3	I thank President Faltýnek for his proposal, which we will vote on if we decide, so we will vote twice. First of all, we will vote on setting aside this time for an extraordinary reason for voting on the amendment of the agenda for the meeting. Well, I'm turning you all out first. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will first vote on President Faltýnek's first proposal, i.e. that we will also vote on the amendment of the agenda beyond the specified time. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who is in favour of recognising outside the prescribed time that this is a particularly serious reason and voting on the amendment of the agenda? Who's against it? It is vote number 163, registered 129 Members, for 91, against 8. The motion was accepted. We have therefore decided that there is a particularly serious reason for us to change the agenda beyond the specified time, and we will vote on the proposal by President Faltýnek to include points 36, 37 and 38 after paragraph 146 today. It's gambling laws. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 164, 132 Members are registered, for 94, against 8. The motion was accepted. We've dealt with this change in the agenda, and now I'm coming back... [[A Member of the Gardener shall speak.]] I'm sorry, only if you're vice president of the club, or we're out of points, only with priority rights. Are you the vice-chairman of the MP's club? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u4	Yes, Mr Vice-President, so I swear by oath that I was elected Vice-President of the Civic Democratic Party Club about a month ago, and none of my fellow Vice-Presidents is here, nor is the President, so I will have the right to speak with priority. I would like you to realise that we have now quite adopted such a precedent proposal put forward by President Faltýnek that there are some serious reasons. In my opinion, the serious reasons are that the government coalition is not able to discuss, in due time, in a proper program, you are constantly stalling yourself, you are causing problems for yourself, you are putting yourself off talking points. And then all of a sudden, you're going to propose this mysterious notion as a particularly serious reason, which you're going to decide for the most part. So my question, of course, is what the reasons are, I don't think it's going to fall on fertile soil. But I answer to myself and to all of us who voted against: the reasons are that you are not able to properly implement the points in the approved programme. Then, of course, the House's agenda is changed, the negotiations are changed, the Rules of Procedure are changed, the time is added. And it's very hard for anyone who plans their lives. So I would like you all to realise, colleagues, that this was a certain precedent in the moment of the House's operation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u5	I thank Mr Zahradník. I am very sorry, but to you, for the President's procedure, because I was not present yesterday's grémium, or I represented the House abroad, and I had no idea that yesterday it was agreed that it was only possible to give the floor to the Club Vice-President in the absence of the club president, which is not the case. That's why I'm sorry I gave Mr. Zahradník my word. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Let me explain that this is probably a misunderstanding. I don't think anyone will suspect that I'd have any special respect for my colleague, Faltýnek, but I want to testify that I was present with the agreements of club presidents, Mr Stanjura, Mr Laudát, Mr Sklenák, Mr Faltýnek and others, that given that it was not possible to discuss lottery laws yesterday, they will be included today with the fact that they must not act longer than 19 hours. That was the deal, so all the club presidents made a deal. And it's a precedent, and it's happened several times in the past term. Yes, the total inability of a government coalition to respect legislative terms is a serious reason. It's just that the country needs to be managed, and when the coalition is incompetent, it's a serious reason. We've acknowledged the compelling reason, and I'm testifying that this is an agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u7	So, thank you to President Kalousek for this information and we will actually continue with point 143, third reading of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, have already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. Amendments to the draft law submitted are set out in the Houses of the Press 617/4. Before opening the debate, I call on the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Václav Votava, to present a draft voting procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, if the voting procedure is meant, I will, of course, take it from here. [[Mr Votava turns to the President]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u9	Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u10	Yes, so I would first point out that the House's press 617/4, which is the amendments to the state budget, has been distributed 30. 11. all Members and consists of four parts - I think it is important to emphasise this. Firstly, it is the motion for a resolution of the House contained in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, Annex 1, which is amendments to the text section of the Act, Annex - amendments to the figures in the tables, namely A, which are amendments from the budget committee's resolutions, and B, which are amendments that were tabled at second reading. We also have a motion for an accompanying resolution, which Mr Bendl made at second reading. Just a note: Annex 1 will be automatically filled if any of the amendments listed in the note are approved. [[14.40 hours]] As far as the procedure is concerned, we will, of course, vote according to the practice of the state budget in recent years. The vote is a little different from ordinary laws. I would like to point that out, because we should proceed with the so-called additive principle, that is, if two are identical or more identical items, so if one item is accepted, the other is not unvoteable, but they are voteable, and then the items add up numerically, or they also subtract. They subtract to the time when negative values occur in the relevant item. Then such a proposal and other decreasing proposals are unvoteable. As far as the voting procedure is concerned, we would first vote on the proposals from the budget committee's resolutions. If there is no objection, we would vote with one vote. We would then vote on the amendments that were applied at the second reading of the Members. I would suggest that we first vote on the Stanjura amendments, all under order number B30. I want to ask - he is not here, Mr Stanjura - if we must vote separately each item or by one vote. I see nodding, but I'd like to hear it really, not nodding some of my colleagues. I assumed that my colleague Stanjura, when these are his amendments, would say here on the microphone how he wants to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u11	I beg you, Mr. Ambassador, to make your proposal, if my colleague Stanjura is not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u12	So I suggest we vote -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u13	If there is an objection to it -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u14	I propose that we vote on those proposals under B30 with one vote. We would then vote on Annex 2 to the Act as a whole and, finally, we would vote after the final vote on the Bill on the Budget as a whole on the accompanying resolution proposed by Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u15	At this point, I'm asking if anyone has any comment on the proposed procedure. Then I shall vote on the proposed voting procedure. Then I will open the debate as the Rules of Procedure lead. Please, Mr. Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u16	Mr Vice-President, I am also the co-author of the amendment tabled by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Given that the proposal concerns more chapters, I think it is quite logical for a single item to be voted on. I propose a separate vote by item.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u17	Okay, if the rapporteur accepts this, then we will vote on individual items.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u18	Of course, I respect that. So it's going to be a slightly longer vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u19	So that's the first modification of the proposed procedure. I am asking if anyone else has any suggestions to amend the procedure proposed by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. It's not like that. I will call our colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on the proposed procedure for adopting the State Budget for 2016. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 165; 156 Members and Members are registered, for 140, against none. The motion was accepted. Thank you to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u20	Now we would vote -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u21	No, I'm sorry, rapporteur. Rules of Procedure - this was the proposed procedure. I will now open a debate in which they will have the right to express themselves - there are seven applications for the debate so far. And when the debate is over, then we will vote on individual proposals. Thank you. I am opening a debate in which the President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek signed up first with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you about what will not surprise you that, regardless of the outcome of the vote on individual amendments, the TOP 09 cannot support this budget for 2016. Let me just sum up the basic reasons. We have had tens and tens of hours of discussions on this one, to what extent the House has the right to reduce deficit only nominally at the time of economic growth, because it uses higher selection - although not as good as growth would have been, because the Ministry of Finance fails to collect taxes, but still higher collection - from higher growth and higher growth in consumption, when these revenues are projected mainly into expenditures that significantly increase compared to the medium term for 2016, which you approved a year ago, and only at least uses them to reduce the nominal deficit without any ambition to try to contain the structural deficit. We think it is irresponsible that at least half a percent of the reduction in the structural deficit would not force the government to reduce spending, only it would not have to increase so much. And because it is irresponsible and because it is an irresponsible increase in spending compared to the previous years, we cannot support such a budget. Another set of reasons is that the budget isn't true. And it is not true, either, in comparison with the arguments of its authors, and it is not true, nor is it true, compared to the legislation in force. When you listen to the Minister of Finance, you listen to the Prime Minister, you feel that the government's greatest priorities are investment in infrastructure, economic growth, the bloom of pink orchards and the singing of birds. But it's not because the numbers are talking. And what real government priorities are will tell us the spending that grows fastest, where it is the fastest, greatest growth dynamics. And when we look at where the biggest dynamic of expenditure growth is, an absolutely unbeatable government priority is increasing the number of civil servants and associated wage costs. That's your number one budget priority, which accelerates not after a linear curve, but after an exponential. For next year you plan to accept an extra 13.5 thousand. civil servants, and if we add to this year's roughly seven, in two years this government has done something that has no precedent in the history of the twenty-five-year budgeting of the free Czech Republic that you can accept by 21,000 in two years. extra staff. These costs, together with a logical increase, represent more than 20 billion per year for the taxpayer. higher costs. I'm not discussing the increase, it's okay, the economy's going well, the civil servants' salaries were retarded, even frozen, so we don't mind the increase. But 21,000 new civil servants-- excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, that's chuffe. He particularly crams away from the Finance Minister, who, before he joined politics in 2010, has now and daily lamented any government for being extremely upset and not saving especially in the personnel costs of government consumption. And he repeated many times that he, as an entrepreneur, could not afford it. [[14.50 hours]] He couldn't. He never dared to either. However, he, as the finance minister, who doesn't pay it out of his own hands, took the liberty of putting this burden on the taxpayer easily. It's about CZK 21 billion extra, and that's-- that's you, that's the top priority for government. And it's not just the teachers, it's not just the firefighters, it's not just the cops you're always looking for when we enter this discussion. There are thousands and thousands of new civil servants who have no idea what they're going to do there. A classic example is the chapter of the Ministry of Finance, where the Minister of Finance wants some 720 new officials next year, claims wage funds and you will also approve them. And out of the 720, 400 officials - about CZK 230, 240 million - want electronic sales records from 1 January. We all know that there will be no electronic record of sales since 1 January. We all know that it will not be November 1st, but the House is prepared to approve the Minister of Finance more than 200 million to 400 officials who will deal with electronic sales records. I'd really like to know what the owner of Agrofert would say to any boss of his company who would come to him and say to him, "Mr. Owner, CEO, Chief, High Prime Minister..." [[Laughs in the hall.]] I would like you to give me CZK 200 million from 1 January onwards for personnel costs for a new line that I will not have there. But I want those personnel costs from January 1st. I can imagine the reaction. It would certainly be right. Or if the director of one of the media acquisitions of the Minister of Finance, say the CEO of Radio Impulse, would come to the owner and say, Mr. Owner, I plan in three, in four years I could have a new foreign news editor, but those payroll funds that I won't have in four years, and I want them now from 1 January. The owner and businessman would probably kill him or fire him at least. The Chamber of Deputies will approve this money to the Minister of Finance. They're just not gonna be there, they're gonna use the money any other way, or maybe they're gonna tie it up, I don't know what they're gonna do with it. But the comicity of the situation that you will approve from 1 January money for something that will not be objectively, makes the entire process of approving the budget completely unbelievable and untrue. Here's what I'm trying to say-- he's not just false in terms of argument. Your first priority is not investment, economic growth, but wage costs for civil servants. Second of your priority, if we look at what items grow fastest, social benefits are of a mandatory nature. And the third item that grows fastest is subsidies to the agrifood complex. It was not by chance that we proposed, given the current security situation, that defense should be strengthened by two billion crowns at the expense of subsidies from the agrifood complex, because we feel that security is getting worse and not the situation in agriculture. However, Minister Babiš defended his money for the agrifood complex, so I have no doubt that this amendment will not be approved. He's the one who's untrue about the budget, not only in the argument of his petitioners about priorities. The priorities are elsewhere. It is not economic growth, it is not investment in infrastructure. Your priorities are the wage costs of civil servants, social benefits of mandatory nature and subsidies to the agrifood complex. And please, I'm not lying. Look at the numbers. The numbers don't lie, they're Treasury numbers. These are the fastest growing items. He is also untrue in what legislation he relies on. In Article 5 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2 is written that the state budget is estimated revenue and expenditure. The estimates are based on what? They are estimated on the basis of the dynamics of economic growth and existing legislation, which requires some mandatory contributions. Yes, it has happened many times in the past that some of the laws envisaged by the next year's budget since 1 January have been approved with effect from 1 January, only after the state budget has been approved. From this point of view, this is not a precedent. But always, and 100% always, it was when the government coalition was aware that the laws, even after the state budget, would be passed, and at that point the budget as though it had no right to count on them, were effective from 1. 1. This year is the first year the government doesn't give a shit about this. When he knows that there are several laws, and it is far from just electronic sales records, it is also laws where we have not transferred a straw to the government, the Personal Income Tax Act, the Pension Insurance Act, where, for your notoriety of inability, you obviously will not be able to obtain approval to be effective at 1. 1. 2016. They won't. You already know that today. The Treasury Secretary knows that, too. And he knew it. Yet the budget you are about to approve is counting on these changes as if those laws were effective from 1. 1. 2016. And you will knowingly vote for a false budget and false data, even if it is a law. That's never happened here before. Do you know how a Democrat from a carcrate gets to be recognized at first sight? The Democrat simply honors the rules, honors the laws, even if they are uncomfortable at that moment, even if they seem illogical, if they need to be changed, they will change them, and until they are changed, they are honored. The Autocrat doesn't give a shit. What's the law? If I'm going to stand as a company, I don't need the law. There's just no law, but we're gonna write it down. That may be the most serious reason I'm pointing out here. One year a very bad budget is a bad thing, but contempt for rules and contempt for law is something no government should ever afford. And unfortunately, this isn't your first case. If the law doesn't suit you, you ignore it. When the government was being created, you couldn't use the rendering law at that moment valid and effective, so you just ignored it. Now you're ignoring and budgeting budgetary legislation, even if it doesn't apply, and you know it won't be effective to 1. 1. 2016. You're sending out a signal to society: if we don't have the rules, if we don't have the custom, if we don't have the law, we don't have to follow it. So we're not gonna play this game with you, and that's why we can't vote in favour of the government's draft state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u23	Thank you to President Kalousek. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] With a factual remark, President Votava. Please, Mr. Chairman. After him with priority rights, the President of the Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, he will not allow me to respond to my colleague Kalousek, through you, of course. This is not about laws that should be effective from 1. 1. 2016. It's never been like that. Laws that took effect during the next year and it was essential for them to go through the first reading in the year when the state budget was approved. As far as I know, the EET went through a second reading, of course, you're doing a third reading obstruction here, so we don't even have a chance yet, but I believe that we are, of course, declaring it. And the lottery law, from which income should flow, and revenue in the state budget is counted to about 2 billion, so it is in the Senate. So I would like to correct my colleague Kalousek by means of you, he is not telling the whole truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u25	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u26	Thank you. I am sorry, Mr President, but unfortunately I am telling the whole truth. I think we've been here about the same time. I've been in your position about 11 years ago. It never happened that the laws with which he counted the budget from 1. 1. and here at EET, taxes, counts on revenue and expenditure budget from 1. 1, they weren't at 1. 1. effective. It has never happened that the law, which we would have reason to believe will not be approved that year, should be reflected in budgetary expenditure. We have been telling you fair and square since February that there will be no electronic record of sales in 2016. It just won't be! And you're still gonna approve more than 200 miles of them for the minister. Crowns. I don't know what he's gonna do with the money, but he doesn't need it anyway, but he's gonna get it from the Chamber of Deputies like he gets it from a budget sovereign. And then there'll be pure government and budget measures to do with the money. That's why the budget is false, and that's why it mocks the law. And I could give you four more examples, but I don't want to delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u27	I thank the President for his point of view. Now with priority rights, the President of Černoch, after whom President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u28	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, before today's final vote, I would like to defend the amendments that we tabled on the state budget for our Parliamentary Club Úsvit - the National Coalition. These are a total of two amendments. First, we propose to set aside 5 billion. CZK to be redirected to technical security of Czech state borders. The funds are to be used to purchase technologies such as technical equipment detecting movement, cameras, drones and other technologies that protect the borders of the Czech Republic. This is not about building a fence like it is in Hungary. From our point of view, the border should be protected in the same way as it is protected, for example. border Slovak-Ukrainian. The second measure is to set aside 3 billion. CZK to be redirected to personnel security of border control. The funds are to be used to recruit approximately 3000 police officers who should be engaged in the protection of national borders in the long term. I want to make it clear that Úsvit will support the state budget only if the government invests sufficiently in defending the Czech Republic from the immigration crisis and terrorism. The current budget does not count on illegal immigrants coming to Europe and next years. It does not count at all on the fact that there will again be crowds of illegal immigrants in Europe who will simply follow the path that will be the easiest way for them. Let us ask ourselves: Do we believe that the European Union, headed by Chancellor Merkelová, will protect us from illegal immigration and terrorism? Is there anyone here who actually thinks that might be the case? I think this question has a clear answer, and that none other than us can protect ourselves. This simple rule was understood by all the states that were exposed to illegal immigrants, the big wave. Hungary has built a fence, Austria is building a fence, Slovenia has deployed an army to protect the border. We were in Macedonia, which fights in a huge way against those immigration waves that pass from a Member State through a non-member state of the European Union to other Member States. The Czech Republic must be prepared to protect its borders and it really needs to go in this direction. According to the European Commission, more than 3 million immigrants will come to the European Union by 2017, which is roughly three times as many as this year. But risks come not only from newcomers. Germany now has about 1 million of them on its territory and only now does it realize that it absolutely doesn't know what to do with them. In the first ten months, the Land deported 15,000 refugees, a total of about 1,5 percent who came to Germany. What will the rest of the immigrants and refugees do with them, so far no one knows. Such immigrants will run from the state authorities, corrupt Europe, and try completely illegally to be here as long as possible in Europe. Just no matter what. It will be a burden against which our system will have to stand up and we will have to protect our borders. Security experts are clearly warning - every country that wants to ensure security for its citizens must know who is coming into it. As France has convinced us, it takes a few individuals to commit a terrorist attack. I therefore appeal once again to you and I would like to ask you to support our amendments. Of course, we have other points to support. In the field of social policy, my colleague Jana Hnyková will comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Fiedler, President Stanjura, is now making a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would only respond to what my colleague, the chairman of our club Marek Černoch, has just said about the increase on where we are going with the finances that we are proposing to move into the state budget. According to what I watched in the news in the media this morning, there was information that the underfinance of the military was about 100 billion, information estimated at about 20 to 30 billion in the Ministry of the Interior. with the fact that some enormous increase would probably not be useful because there might be a flood. I'm sure the amounts we're proposing aren't that kind of money. These are the amounts that we consider to be absolutely up-to-date and their implementation, according to what my colleague Černoch said in the context of the solution to their implementation, selection procedures, security of technical and personnel, we consider it absolutely real. I heard this morning from representatives of both resorts that the under-equippedness of these resorts is also within the equipment of police officers as well as within the equipment of soldiers means of personal protection. And those are our proposals that we are proposing, we consider to be most up-to-date and feasible in this volume, which we are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u31	I thank Mr Fiedler and now with priority rights Mr President of the Civic Democratic Party's Civic Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u32	Thank you for the floor. So in the third reading, I will sum up the attitude of our club and our political party. Whether we support or not to support the draft state budget, you have decided first reading. The proposed deficit of 70 billion. He's too tall, and that's why we can't support him. We have repeatedly and quite in detail in the debate at first, second reading, also in the various committees have shown the government where it can find reserves. I mean, there is an amount in the public space that Members have proposed budget changes of 44 billion. Let's take this amount apart together and say what it really means. [[15.10 hours]] About 25 billion. We designed - composed of many items - into the government's budget reserve. That means a possible savings. It's not a transfer to other expenses. So we're left with 44 just 19 billion. The proposal to strengthen the military and the Ministry of Defence by about 2.3 billion is repeated three times. That's almost 7 billion. But really, if any of these proposals go through, that purpose will be fulfilled. So the other proposed amounts, the proposed transfers, aren't nearly as big as it looks at first sight. I would like us to go back approximately 12 to 13 months and recall the debate on the 2015 budget. If you recall, we as citizens' democrats criticized this draft budget not only because of the deficit rate of 100 billion, but also because we were convinced that the revenue of the state budget was undervalued and we said: you will meet the expenditure, the revenue will be higher, it is clear. At that time, less than 3% of economic growth was considered. Even so, income was underestimated. And I'm sure you'll come back in November or December with the way you manage well. On the first or second, I think that December 2nd, the Ministry of Finance presented the results of the management in the first months and it happened exactly what we said last year. Eleven months' revenue plus 91 billion, so tell me how well you budgeted your income. Of course, I don't know the dates to date, and I'm going to estimate that this increase in revenue could be about 100 billion per year, and that's a big deviation. So let's say it's not at all within some statistical error or units of billions. There were also 60 billion more spending in those eleven months, and we know from experience that spending in the 12th month simply grows at a higher rate than in the other months. We'll see. I would estimate that the budget at the end of the year will amount to some 70 billion. I'm sure the Minister of Finance has more accurate information. Consider this an estimate of when we are based on the performance in 11 months and on the implementation of the budget in previous years in the 12th month. So where's the pace of deficit reduction? This year 70 billion, next year 70 billion. We are drawing attention to something else this year in this debate. In our opinion, the revenues are tense and may be too optimistic. This situation will not be repeated, that there will be a hundred billion more income than has been budgeted. It just won't be! We fear that it is in the item revenue from European money, aside from compulsory payments, such claims, that it is too optimistic. We will see how it works in the first year of the new planning period to draw billions or tens of billions from European funds. At the same time, however, these expenditures will be spent unless our amendment passes to strengthen the government's budgetary reserve. And he won't pass, I heard a statement after the coalition's meeting. That is, of course, your full right, a political decision. So when we write it here in a year and we prepare and debate about budget 2017, I'm curious to know what the performance will be in 11 months and what the trend will be to reduce the deficit of the state budget. Remember, a year ago, government leaders said that we could reach a balanced budget sometime in 2017 to 2018. A year later, they say 2018 to 2019. And I am almost sure that next year they will say: Well, we can achieve that balanced budget sometime between 2019 and 2020. We're still pushing it away, we're saying three to four years from now. But a year later, it's three to four years again. And I'm saying, I'm afraid it'll be like that next year. We pointed out that some chapters were artificially increased in the draft budget. And the very attitude of government MPs and government coalition is right. We criticized how highly designed is the item of benefits in material distress, where it belongs especially to the most abused housing supplement. We've estimated at least a billion. What happened on September 30th, when the government sent this draft budget to us, to the Chamber of Deputies? 500 million one proposal from my colleague Sklenák, 600 million the second proposal from Mr Soukup, and suddenly, after less than two months, 1.1 billion of the benefits in material distress will be supported by the government coalition. It's good, I'm not criticizing it, I'm just showing it, and it's not the only item that the original proposal was simply exaggerated, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has created some kind of cotton wool here, and it's already been recognized by government officials themselves, because after two months they found 1.1 billion unnecessarily budgeted money in the original draft budget. I point out that we will both support the proposals, because it is a good thing. It just shows it, and it certainly isn't the only item in the budget where the ministers managed to fool the Treasury and claim that not a penny less, that they need it this way. I wonder what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will say about this, for example, that he has not yet begun the financial year, and he already has 1.1 billion less on this item. And I point out, that's good. I'm not criticizing it. I am merely showing how, in many cases, access to expenditure was in the various budget chapters. We see a big problem here, and that doesn't please us at all, today it turns out at two points, at this point, and then at point 146, the budget of the SFDI 2016. I don't want to have a specific level debate here, and I don't want to have a debate, even though maybe I do, about specific actions. Sometime last week, the government discussed in a rather secret way, I think the information of the Ministry of the Environment on how negotiations with the European Commission look about the recognition of the acquisition of the EIA under the original 1991 law. The material wasn't eKLEP, I don't know if it was intentional or unintentional. I would say that it relatively realisticly points to the danger that we, as the Czech Republic, face. I really don't understand when the government so often calls drawing a condition is this, it, this law, this law, this law, the Civil Service Act, for example. The EIA Act didn't negotiate in advance that it wouldn't be retroactive. Because he's retroactive actually. These buildings were properly acquired by the EIA, and today Brussels officials are saying to us: Well, you can build it, but only with your own money, we will not give us European money for it. And as far as I can remember, the government material says the amount that's threatened in drawdown, 90 billion. Why didn't the government put it ahead? I don't understand. I don't know whose problem it is, whether the MMR that negotiated or the Ministry of Transport or the government as a whole. But it puts us in a very disadvantageous position. I think you go there all the time, different delegations, but the shift is zero. And if, in my opinion, the Prime Minister does not solve this at European Council level, then we simply will not move those environmental officials. And that is why, in our view, it is impossible, if this cannot be resolved, to draw out the proposed budget of the SFDI, and that is why the money that is allocated as a state subsidy to the transport infrastructure fund will remain. It doesn't please us at all, but let's remember the debate when the EIA was here. Many of us drew attention to this. We've been assured - no, no, no, we have to approve this so we can draw. We said at the time: if we approve, we won't be able to draw not formally, formally yes, but practically no. And here we are. And we have two years away from the 2014 to 2020. And how much will we spend on transport construction next year? And they're key structures. If you look, and I don't know how many of you have had a chance to look into the material, that's almost all the regions. I can start in my Moravian-Silesian region, I can continue with D11, D3 etc. There are dozens of these buildings. I would like to hear about it from the Minister of the Environment either at this point or at the point of the budget of the SFDI as it goes. Indeed, it is not enough for me: we have planned another meeting in December, January, February. I'd like to know how we're going to work politically. In my opinion, we must obtain allies from other countries, because this is the bureaucratic approach of the European Commission and Brussels in general, which harms the interests of the Czech Republic. I wouldn't blame the Treasury Secretary if he has, or doesn't have, 2 billion of EETs written there. EET isn't gonna be anything, even if it comes through. Look into the famous Croatia. Nothing! Well, if the law doesn't apply, then income is zero, and if he were to pay, I don't know how you would have done it, so would income be zero. So the EET on the income side doesn't really do anything. It will do so on the expense side, especially in the business public. I'm sure you do. And that's what we're gonna try to stop. Mr Vice-President, a relatively unconventional procedure has been chosen by approving the voting procedure before the start of the debate. I think it's very unfortunate. All I have to do is ask that we repeat the vote. And I would like to ask the Committee on Budgets to vote separately on A4 at least from those items approved by the Committee on Budgets. Because, in the Committee on Budgets, as in every other committee, the government majority prevails and, of course, we have not had the opportunity to comment on the individual proposals. So either all of them, and if it seemed to you - I think there are 10 or 11, the President certainly knows it better than I do - if you felt it was too many votes in point A, those are the proposals...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u33	I'm very sorry, but I'm begging my honored colleagues and colleagues to keep their voice down. We're talking more than a trillion crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u34	A thousand two hundred fifty billion! Who cares, right? I mean, what? That's supposed to be the most important law of the year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u35	They're quiet, so they care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u36	So I would ask either for a separate vote on each item in the budget committee so that we can express our political opinion. Because the Committee on Budgets is something other than plenary. And if not, at least about the A4 item, because we do not want to support it, the others do, so that we can prove and show the vote, because we are not ashamed of our views, which we have supported and which we have not. Of course, this will not change the outcome of the vote. But I think the government coalition might be able to accommodate us on this. And if we have 60 or 70 votes on the state budget, it's not very important. But it is very important for us to discuss the 2016 State Final Account one day in order to see if we can find savings in those items that we have claimed and that there can be lower spending, so that we can decide whether or not the lower spending was. And it will be very important, for example, in the final account of 2016, to return to how who voted on the amendments and how effectively or inefficient these expenditures have been incurred. Please berte this a procedural proposal that we can vote on after the debate is over, certainly not at this time, because I think... I am sorry, I have fulfilled some obligations to the state budget on television, so I was not here when the rapporteur proposed it. But it's really an unusual procedure. So I would ask for some indulgence, and after the debate, we could go back to the procedure. I'm saying it won't change anything in the vote itself. If you are prepared to support any amendment, it does not matter whether you vote in a package or separately. So let me get this straight. Most likely, the government coalition will reject nearly 25 billion. to the government's budgetary reserve. It's a little surprising, we take it as political reality. This is all the more I look forward to the debate when budget measures, like this year, are going to take place, that sometimes the environmental community has forgotten to participate, because at the moment when the government has the power to do so, as we propose, the process would be much more flexible, the government could decide on its own, to release money from the government's budget reserve, and it would not have to go to the budget committee, in some cases, except for the House of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. I admit that the procedure is unusual, but this is how I was prescribed by House legislation. I see no problem why we cannot go back to this after the debate is over. Now I think President Votava is referring to this matter. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, my colleague came up with a little cross after a funeral, as they say. I don't have a problem with it personally, but I've even been here to challenge who has an objection to it so that he can say the objection. And I'm a little sorry, and it bothers me, because in the machine, we were talking about something else about the vote. But of course, things are evolving, so I get it. But we voted for the procedure. So she's voted. Otherwise, I wouldn't have a problem with it if you came up with the idea that you want to vote those points individually after a point in the budget committee resolution, so why should I have a problem with that? But the procedure's already been voted out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u39	I thank Prime Minister Votav. Another duly registered, this time without prior rights, is Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor. I'm going to announce that President Stanjura broke his card, so he's got a replacement card number 20. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good afternoon. I would like to comment on the 2016 budget and, above all, on Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm so glad the secretary's here. This chapter draws almost half of the state budget, and the setting of some of the sub-chapters in it is a complete mystery to me that even on the Social Policy Committee, the workers of the Ministry of Labour could not explain and answer me. I will give an example, for example, of a decrease in the mandatorial expenditure in the area of benefits for disabled people. Compared to planned expenditures in 2015, there was a decrease in the year next by 538 194 thousand. Knights less. Do we have less affected, or have we recovered? Do they not need compensatory aids, apartment modifications, or do they not need to transport cars for education, work, or social life? Perhaps the Minister could answer that question as far as possible. Recently, I had members of the Social Commission of the Moravian-Silesian Region on the Sub-Committee on Non-Insurable Supply Systems, and they complained about how disabled people have problems with receiving these benefits. And I don't want to mention any media issues. I really do not understand how the Ministry is reacting to this issue, because it is necessary to take into account the disabled and to allow them to live a normal life with the support of both family and educational life and working life. And for that, it takes enough money for special aids and mobility. Am I wrong? I would therefore like to support Mr Zdeněk Soukup's proposal from this place on behalf of our member club, which proposes to reduce the budget of material emergency in Chapter 313, which has been mentioned today, by an amount of 869 840 thousand. CZK, which increased compared to 2015. He's designing 600 miles. CZK transfer to pension insurance - that is reasonable, we need to find somewhere money for a one-time pension, when the budget has not been calculated with this since September of this year - and the rest recommends using it precisely for the disabled. And I think it should move to this chapter. Our club will also support the amendments made by Vice-President Bartošek and Mr Vilímec, who want to increase care contributions that have not been validated for several years. Perhaps, in time, we will also manage to settle the rules for granting this contribution in order to improve the life of disabled, elderly people and not to live on the poverty line and appeal in administrative proceedings against decisions, as we heard at the seminar, which we held together with colleague Mark Černoch and Olga Havlová, and after that, when the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not act, we filed an amendment to Law 108/2006, and other colleagues from political parties and movements signed there. Unfortunately, this amendment is parked in the Chamber of Deputies, and when it gets to the meeting, I don't know. With our work style, I think it'll be a while. Our parliamentary club will support the amendments to the Committee on Budgets in an increase of 200 million. for non-investment batch transfers. Transferred to practice is an increase of money to social workers in municipalities. We'll also support the proposal for an increase of 300 miles. on the reproduction of property to non-state social actors submitted by a colleague of Kaňkovský to the Committee on Social Policy. We will also support Mr Vilímec's amendment to the 20-mile increase. transfers to territorial budgets for social and legal protection of children. And here I will not forgive the criticism of the Ministry in this area of funding. I do not know whether the officials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs meet at all and whether they transmit information from the Committee on Social Policy, where we discussed financing these facilities. What economic problems are there for children requiring immediate assistance? 22 800 crowns really will not cover the cost of a child's stay, which will find itself in a crisis situation. And it's not just about kangaroos, it's about all the facilities that provide this service. [[15.30 hours]] After all, this service cannot work by giving the facility a financial amount per child's head, but there must be a change in funding. And I can imagine that it can be financed as for example. Medical emergency services. There is to be a clear concept of how many such facilities we need, what is the average number of children placed here, and how much we need to pay properly. I don't know where this ministry is headed, whether the reduction of money that will lead to the disappearance of these facilities? But I assure you, my fellow Members, that many of this do not have many directors and directors of these facilities have peaceful sleep and funding in this sphere is at risk. Finally, I would like to support my colleague Semelová's amendment to finance the salaries of nurses in social services, when she proposes to increase the subsidy by CZK 500 million for this purpose. At second reading, Mrs Semelová recalled how much the number of nurses in these facilities decreased from 2001 to 2013. I'll specify this number. These are 2,818 workers in this profession. However, the capacity of residence facilities has increased by 3 320 seats and the capacity in homes with a special regime, which now amounts to 12,048 seats, has increased in particular. People in the home need not only social services but also health services, and who can perform them? Only the general nurse. And the nurses aren't enough. There is still talk of it, lack of health care, and if nurses leave social services, I wonder: Who will provide professional help to our seniors, the disabled? I don't know. We don't even have an alternative here, so I'm wondering if it's useful either. We will not have professionals, we will not have professional care and the quality of care will go down. Who's gonna pay for this? The people who are in these facilities. Earlier they will leave and the state will have less costs. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] We discussed this area on the Social Policy Committee, and I presented this situation in my presentation with funding in social services and asked the actors present where they would take money to finance the salaries of general nurses in social services establishments in 2016. We have a few options here. There are payments from service users - but, folks, 50 percent of them don't have to pay for their stay, so I guess this isn't the way. From the subsidies given by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from its chapter of the regions, the representatives replied that it cannot be done, that this money is to support the social area. Payments from health insurance companies are limited by a payment decree and the Ministry of Health announces: We increased by 3%. For your interest, I'd like to tell you that as early as 2009... Mr President, I really cannot shout.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u41	Yes, my colleague, I will ask the remaining colleagues and colleagues in the room to keep their voice down so that you can continue to present your proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u42	I'd scream, but I'm indisposed, so I can't. In 2009, research was carried out and it was found that nursing care was provided in social services for 5.2 billion, and today it is 2 billion higher. We could also get it out of donations from sponsors, but they won't cover our salary costs, and I don't know where to find the sponsors. Then there is only one and last chance that the regions will finance it, but regional representatives have told us clearly: We do not have enough and we are still financing enough. Each of the actors claimed that we needed nurses in social facilities, but no one said who would finance it. I will therefore support this amendment. I know you're gonna have a problem with it being 50 million from the USSR, but if there's a will, the whole amount can be given out of Chapter 396 of the state debt. I want to warn you that this is a temporary solution. A law is being prepared to address a health-social interface, but until then we must ensure the financing of nurses' salaries. The 14 performances shown by nurses on insurance companies will not cover their salaries, and I therefore ask all of you to support this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have expressed my opinion on Chapter 313. Even though this chapter has been increased, it has been married to the most needed - disabled. It wasn't about raising pensions. I think it is necessary for us to next - and, above all, for the Minister, I would ask that these amounts be laid down fairly next time when the budget is drawn up in Chapter 313. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u43	Thank you, Madame, and please next in line and that is Mrs Kovářová, Mr Dolejš will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the following questions and on the answer directly from the Minister of Finance. I wanted to ask some of the questions earlier, but, unfortunately, due to his seven-month absence of oral intervention, this was not possible. I have applied the amendment on the restoration of cultural monuments, which responds to the failure of European money in this area. I would like to ask you whether you consider the strengthening proposed by the government sufficient. For the record, I don't. Clearly, this was also believed by fellow Members of the Committee on Budgets, including those sitting in the coalition benches. They talked about the seriousness of the problem and the need to finance the restoration of cultural monuments. They even promised to submit a compromise proposal that would add less to the restoration of cultural monuments than I and the Public Administration Committee wanted, but more than the government's draft budget. This was indeed promised at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, but the deed escaped. There was no compromise amendment prepared. I believe that when the Committee on Budgets was able to find CZK 250 million extra for sport, I also support this amendment, at least the same amount must be found to restore cultural monuments. That is why I would like to make a motion for a second reading so that we can put the compromise amendment together. The debate on the Committee on Budgets has shown that this is our common objective, and I hope that this is true. In this context, by the way, I would like to ask how the government's draft state budget responds to the form of the Partnership Agreement as a whole. Some areas, and one of them is the restoration of cultural monuments, which will no longer be supported from European funds, or possibly. will be supported less or under other, less favourable conditions. How, Minister, did you and your colleagues take this fundamental fact into account when preparing the draft state budget? So much for the amendment on the restoration of cultural monuments. I also tabled an amendment that addresses the lack of eGovernment workers. The Minister of the Interior has already given his opinion here two weeks ago during oral interventions, you have unfortunately not been present. I have received the impression from the information so far that the eGovernment issue is not a priority for you, Minister, and it is probably behind your support for this amendment. Is this really the case, or what is the solution you have come to in the area? I believe that the first question in particular is essential. The blackout of European money in some areas will actually turn out to be felt sooner or later. I do not mean to exaggerate, but I must say that, for example, for municipalities as potential applicants, the form of the Partnership Agreement is literally scary. Unlike the previous oral interventions, the Minister is present today, so I believe he will be happy to answer me. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Mr Martin Novotný is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u46	Colleagues and colleagues, I only want to support, as briefly as possible, the proposal by Mrs Kovářová in the area of support for rescue and restoration of monuments. Most people who have been in or have been in municipal politics in recent years and about two decades have watched a long period of time as the share of long-term cooperation between the centre, state, government and municipalities declines over a year from year to year. Today, we are about half of the funds that the state budget has devoted to this area some ten or twelve years ago. Although the face of our country has changed significantly, a number of monuments have been repaired and the state of our cities and municipalities cannot be compared to the state ten twenty years ago, especially in the early 1990s a number of these reconstructions took place by improving the exterior facade and casings of objects. It looks good on the eye, but often there are static disorders, a number of problems that seriously threaten the sights. I think that the trend of a long-term decline in the Centre's participation in this problem is unfortunate, so I would also like to be on behalf of the tens of mayors who have been addressing me in this matter recently, in order to consider further support for the increase in the chapter in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u47	I thank Mr Novotný. The Minister of Transport obviously wants to answer him with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the contribution made by Mr Stanjura and when he invited us to comment on the EIA. I would just like to react very briefly from this place that the problem is not the problem of the law that has been approved. It is a problem that things have not been brought into our law for the last five years, and that, under pressure, this law had to be adopted. From that title today to accuse us of dealing with a situation that was supposed to be solved five years ago, it's a little late and I don't think it's entirely fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u49	Thank you, Minister. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If you will allow, colleagues, in all brief, the opinion of the KSČM club on the vote on the draft state budget for 2016. First of all, I would like to say that, although I understand when the government commends its own proposal as one of the best, it is, in fact, a compromise of relatively disparate political forces, which is hardly realistic. Not only does it not inspire, but it doesn't help the economy much. It does not reflect a consistent economic strategy, and if, before the 2013 elections, we were promised to go the way from blunt cuts and excessive pressure on budgetary restrictions, which has strengthened the crisis phenomena that we have experienced in recent years, to some thoughtful active support for the economic and social development of society, I think this draft budget does not reflect such philosophy and strategy. Really, and it's proven to be an analysis of basic statistical data, this government, as such, is not shutting down the economy. It is only being driven on the one hand to the international recovery and to the fact that we are pumping European money over the seven-year period of the European budget. In fact, this government keeps running and doesn't put its own distinctive, visible stimuli for itself. This is a conceptual flaw, and we blame the draft budget, although, of course, at this stage before the vote and the amendments, I can imagine that some of the sub-issues in this budget can be rationalised. Of course - and now I add, it is not my job to argue with the real opposition, but I am talking about a government proposal - I do not think that the fundamental flaw of this budget is that it has slightly added to the salaries, because here it is only catching up with a certain stagnation and decline that we have in the salary sector. And that's not just for the public sphere. Of course, the handicap of cheap work is also in the private sector, and after all, I can support it with the argument of the Czech National Bank, which certainly does not think that there is any dangerous inflationary potential, and, on the other hand, a greater recovery of wages in the private sector would contribute to demand as among other things a pro-growth factor. As regards the expression of government policy, this is reflected in the structure of expenditure and, above all, revenue measures. If I come out of the fact that the deficit is about 70 billion, although it is not dramatically reduced, but it is not great that it corresponds essentially to the condition of the Czech economy, if I wanted to pay some things that did not get there, then I have to ask myself why we could not raise more money. Here is still unheard of the question of changing the tax structure, especially in the sense that tax progression is really minimal and we are going around literally and to the point of greater corporation taxation. [[heard?]] I say this because it is not only my feeling or opinion of the KSČM faction, but who you have read the material that was processed by ČMKOS, trade unionists, so there you will find considerations on how to achieve change in economic strategy, among other things, by making more corporation tax. What way, that's for debate, concrete proposals fell here too. If we are celebrating an increase in tax revenues, let us say that it is logical if we achieve the economic dynamics planned this year, that we will collect even more taxes, especially when it comes to a significant tax title such as VAT. It's getting weaker with the personal income tax. There are numbers that are far from responding to the fact that our economy is now growing about 4.5 percent per year. So, better-functioning bells? Better tax administration? Blocking major holes, tax evasion and so on? Not that nothing is done, but the order of those effects is not what was discussed with such ease in the election campaign, a hundred billion here, a hundred billion there, and the result, unfortunately, is not. Moreover, and I think that has already been said here, as I have listened to the debate to this point, some of the legal standards that are ready for next year, and the truth, they have not yet been discussed, they are calculating with certain effects. Whether it's electronic sales log or it's gambling tax, we might be able to do it by tonight, or after all, the question marks that are above the VAT control report form represent a certain tax effect, but so far it is only on paper. [[15.50 hours]] EET will certainly bring almost nothing next year, because the validity of the law, the practical effect is spread over time sometimes in the future, etc., etc. So here I'm afraid that the effects, the so-called discrete effects, that is, what we've achieved with our own political and administrative efforts, will certainly not revive the revenue side in such a crucial way. And I leave aside the problem that has already been raised here and that is being blew around, downplayed, and so that is the conflict with the law on budgetary rules, so that is, if I remember it well, Law 218/2000, which says that the approved budget should stand on applicable laws, which is impossible to do today at any time. And if we even calculate that at least as far as the effectiveness of the law is concerned, from 1. 1. so it is also with a big question mark. So the conflict is here, and I don't think it should be downplayed at least for that reason, not that we want to lie on the tracks now and defend the train that's running the public finance train to reach the end station just for that reason. But I don't think it's possible to divide laws into two kinds: one that's being enforced at all costs, and the other that's waving his hand over because it's not appropriate. Dura lex sed lex, used to say old Latin, law is law. I think that an executive who should watch over the law should deal with this in some credible way. Frankly, I don't know what it is, but it's their responsibility. I would still like to touch on the amendments. I said that some of them, even many of them, could rationalise the structure of the state budget. I have heard that the government coalition is not prepared to support those amendments, especially those that have been read from the House's diaper. And frankly, I wonder why. 'Cause there used to be times when things were really either down here or questionable when we were chasing bears and stuff. But these proposals are really selected in a number of cases, they're gullible and they have a ratio. These are even proposals, which are partly loaded by coalition MPs. So it's not some lobbying or a pout of opposition benches. Coalition designs - I counted about five billion from the coalition benches. So just from the budget committee - raise your hand for the proposals, of course. But I think you should think once again about what Members are proposing, and that this is not something that will treat or improve the budget, but rather the other way around. If I were to mention our proposals, there is higher education there. This is proposed in more directions and in more ways. Obviously because that's what high education needs. Medical and paramedic salaries, so I don't miss out on social services. You think they don't deserve it, that they don't really need it? And other transport constructions, etc. But in order not to just focus on our proposals, which are less than three quarters of a billion. Colleagues from other factions also deal with regional education, social services in the regions. What was said here about culture, that is, both the restoration of culture and festivals, so if we don't do it now, we're going to stick it over the budget period anyway. So why are you fighting this so hard? Just because the sněmovna is harassing you? And that what hasn't passed through the central authorities is just uninteresting to you? I don't think that would be a good attitude. So, in summary, yes, our position on the overall resolution is negative. It is negative because we think that the tendency within this government to feel as if it is returning to cuts at the expense of citizens is wrong. Of course, this can be documented in a number of cases. For example, the fact that the proposal to change the existential minimum was not heard as an important basis for calculating social benefits, etc. etc. [[Was it?]] Furthermore, I don't think we should hear that it's a waste of time to pay people for their work. I think I'm gonna say no to cheap work, in which case I'd like to say that unionists are right. I think the Czech Republic should compete with something else and not just cheap work. Last but not least, I think that this budget is not really heading towards new development, that it is basically just financing the projects in question and, in particular, from the European Union, and that it is at all unclear what it wants to build up in the next period when the economy is not cooling down, so it will slow down to half the scope. These are fundamental budgetary flaws and, for this reason, we do not want him to go back to recasting, which is what we think the budgetary provisional would do much more harm than good, but we do not think that it is voteable from our point of view. It's your responsibility that you don't have the budget that society needs. And I think that the poor budget will unfortunately come back to all of us. We're going to have to go back to that again and again next year. Thank you for your attention. And when voting on changers, really consider each item once again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u51	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš. Good afternoon. We will continue the debate. Mr Karamazov. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words about the draft state budget presented by the government. The budget is deficit, proposing a debt of another 70 billion. But I leave budget deficits aside. This is a classic evergreen government in which the left side is significantly represented. So I will focus on the field of science and research that is closer to me. The draft expenditure of the State budget for science, research and innovation for 2016 amounts to 28.6 billion. Crowns. Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek considers this a great success. Unfortunately, the amount of expenditure on science and research is still far from sufficient compared to other OECD member countries. For example, the State of Israel regularly spends over 4 percent of its government resources on science and research. Finland then allocates around 3,5 percent to science. Compared to the Czech Republic, which is still around 2 percent, it is a really marked difference. There's no money for science, but there's always some for mandatorial expenses. The government seems to feel that the efficiency of state sector workers' work is increasing at a rocket rate, while investment in science would not shift us in terms of efficiency and productivity. I don't know how the rest of you feel about this, but I feel exactly the opposite. The government also assumes a declining unemployment rate in the draft state budget. But where does he get the confidence? How did our government help entrepreneurs to make it worthwhile to employ more labor? Just look at how much unnecessary bureaucracy Parliament has passed and how much remains in it. The government doesn't help entrepreneurs in anything, on the contrary, constantly throwing sticks at them and bullying them. Then what about the expenditure on the common defence policy? Does the government have sufficient reserves to strengthen our country's security? Thousands of migrants are flowing into Germany. The dissatisfaction of the inhabitants there is growing. What happens when Angela Merkelová's dream disappears and part of the migrants decides to fulfill their desires on our territory? The army and the police should be ready. Not to mention strengthening the secret services. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that we are going to eat through the common future again instead of investing in areas that we should care about or which are actually weighing on us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u53	I thank Mr Karamazov. Now, Mr. František Adámek, Mr. Holeček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u54	Hello. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I do not want to speak long and I will not speak long, just two or three brief remarks on Amendment B18. I have already mentioned here once that this is no lobbyism, as I learned during the discussions in the galleries that it is, and I want to say that this is a long-term process that we have chosen with our colleague Procházka and others to strengthen and say, if I may say so, to make life easier, if possible, to festivals in the Czech Republic in general, because it is not just about festivals, but also about employment for professional artists and others. And one more little point, so I don't forget. There was also an opinion that it was practically a practice from years past, which was here, which I do not remember, and many of us who are here, and it is called. the division of the bear. I don't think that's true because we're talking about moving money, and I point out 42 million in the Ministry of Culture budget. But in conclusion, let me say two sentences. First of all, I want to ask you from this post of Minister Herman, what made him change his mind within 14 days, when he clearly supported this proposal on the Committee on Science, Youth, Culture, Physical Affairs, I am referring to my colleagues Procházka, which later became the ratio of votes 9:1 in the Committee by the resolution of the Committee on Science, Culture, Youth and Sports, and in some time, I am unable to specify whether it was 14 days, 10 days, three weeks, he had a slightly different opinion. Of course, we all have the right to change our positions, but on such fundamental matters I think it would be good to say these things clearly in the beginning. In conclusion, I will not appeal or challenge you, I will not say that the festivals will fall if it is not, but thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u55	Thank you. We will continue, but Mr Holeček will outrun Mrs Věra Kovářová with a point of fact, and I will outrun her if I state the apology which has run out of the President of the House. Mrs Jitka Chalánková apologizes from 17 to 19 o'clock, and I do not know if my predecessor has read the apologies of Minister Milan Chovanec, Mrs Putnová and Mr Koskuba. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová's factual comment, with priority rights, then the Minister of Culture. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u56	Thank you. I will take advantage of the Minister's application for a comment or an answer. I see that the Minister has not responded to my questions so far, so I would like to ask the Minister of Culture about the cultural monuments, if there is still an opinion he has expressed on the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. I merely recall that this committee unanimously approved an amendment which increases the budget by 342 million. restoration of cultural monuments. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u57	Thank you. And before the Prime Minister's right of priority, Mr Soukup - also with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u58	I've only been very brief. I apologize to my colleague Holečka for having to wait. I'd like to respond to what Mrs Hnyková said. I'd like to make some adjustments. I don't take the less than 870 million out of a material emergency, but only 600 million. And why did I do that to explain it? In fact, at a time when our economy is growing, at a time when unemployment is decreasing, our jobs are growing, so I don't think we need that much money for items in material distress. You know, the Department of Labour and Social Affairs basically from year to year, and that was very surprising for me, it increased by the 867 million. So much for just explaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u59	I thank the honourable Member and now with priority right, Minister of Culture Daniel Herman, then Mr Holeček. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have been addressed here on two matters relating to the budget. First of all, I'm going to repeat what I said more or less during the interpellations last week, or the last of the interpellings. Thank you for your support, Mrs Kovářová, through Mr President, on the matter of helping heritage care. Of course, if it were possible to fully recover the damage that is at the sights and which still needs to be repaired, the financial need would even exceed the amendment. That's obvious. We negotiate when the budget is being negotiated, very carefully individual items relating to culture, and both from the Ministry of Finance and from the Government, I must say that I perceive support and that the Ministry's budget is continuously increasing. This means that I agree with this proposal, and I will support it myself, but I understand that we are somehow moving in the limits of real possibilities as we have already talked about this on other occasions. And thank you again for your support. As for the second mention, the second amendment, which concerns supporting certain festivals, our ministry prepares a system solution, as it was negotiated from the very beginning. It is true that some subjects have the impression that, say, the mode or speed should be greater. I understand the outside view may be different than the inside view. I don't think it's a fair game if the pressure action develops in this way within the budget debate. I have not changed my position and I would not like to speak more openly here. It is on the conscience of every person who supports, but my approach to this amendment will be to abstain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u61	Thank you, Minister Daniel Herman. And one more apology, and that is Mr. Josef Novotný's apology from 16.30 for medical reasons. Another point in fact, Mrs Kovářová? Yes, I see it well. My colleague Holeček is patient. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u62	I thank the Minister very much for finally expressing out loud what a large part of the Members in this Chamber of Deputies think that the cultural monuments that are before the collapse, many of them, suffer, and if they do not receive funding, these monuments will fall. In this context, while I am on these questions, I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister. I have heard a number of priorities that this government has - sport, social affairs. Everything's agreeable. So I ask: the only thing that is not a priority for this government is the promotion of cultural monuments? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u63	Mr František Adámek's point of order is now still in effect. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't want to have a long debate here, just one word. In principle, the Minister was right. Just because the program hasn't been there for two years, we've decided to deal with it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Now, then, Mr Radim Holeček for a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u66	Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, at first reading, I have critically commented on the overall planned amount, in this case rather than expenditure on science, research and innovation. But since my colleague Karamazov spoke of the same thing, so that I do not delay, I will not read the numbers far-reachingly, and I will just say that any other time than at a time of economic growth, which Prime Minister Sobotka calls by saying massive economic growth of 4%, when at other times we should support the field of science, research and innovation massively and invest in our future? Instead, the government dissolves the potential of economic development in non-investment expenditure. Only in salaries and non-investment transfers to private and public bodies is the increase compared to the approved budget for 2015 making an incredible nearly 36 billion crowns! [[16.10 hours]] The thing I won't forgive today is a huge conflict of interests of the Minister of Finance. The fact that Mr Babiš is the owner of companies that draw from the state budget makes us think that they could really carry some sub-chapters of the budget called Babiš to itself. In addition to the absolute amount of the deficit proposed, which is economically indefensible due to the rate of economic growth, I protest from this place against the low support of science, research and innovation, and for myself, which will not be a surprise that I will not support the browsing budget this year. On the contrary, what I will support, whether there is something positive, is our amendment to raise funds by 1 billion to higher education. As a university educator of the University of Ústí nad Labem, I know how much funding is needed for this area. So support this changeling as a kind of painful one for neglected funding science, research and innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u67	Thank you, Mr Holečka. Mr Martin Novotný, then Mr Vilímec, made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u68	After all, in this discussion - good afternoon, colleagues - I will mention one issue which is related to the promotion of science and research and is very specific and concerns the promotion of our participation in the European Space Agency. The fact that, in recent years, we have played an important role in supporting this region in the past will mean sooner or later that the area, which has played an important role in the past in the Czech science as well as the multiplier effect in the economy, will logically lose the potential that has arisen in recent years. There are some things where the view of approving the state budget based primarily on the principle of discipline could sometimes be abandoned. And just for example, in recent years, a repeated, unattractive gesture towards the cosmic activities of our country, I think it will not be profitable for us in the long term, it will come back to us and the thing in which we have great human and long-term potential will rather stagnate. That is why I would also like to remind and support this sub-region of support for science and research with this speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u69	I thank Mr Novotný. Mr Vilímec is applied for, Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u70	Mr Vice-President, at the outset a few general words. So here we have the government's draft state budget, which even predicts the growth of the economy with a 70-billion-dollar deficit. If I recall the Prime Minister's exposé at first reading of the draft budget, he said that we must take advantage of economic growth, and this budget, which the government has put forward, is helping to promote further economic growth. Well, that's such a nice general statement. But, you know, the problem is, it's not reflected in the budget. I'm not talking about increasing the number of civil servants. But when we look at the capital expenditures, they are about CZK 2 billion higher than last year, but for example, compared to 2013 or the 2013 budget, they are much smaller and when European money is deducted, they are actually lower by CZK 1.5 billion compared to 2013, they did not say that compared to 2012, i.e. the years when we showed zero or negative growth in gross domestic product. There is even more than 4 billion crowns. Unfortunately, even in committee discussions, it has been shown that in some cases, expenditure design was not carried out with due responsibility or expertise. koneckonců all, because I am a member of the Committee on Social Policy, after all, it led the Social Committee, which is - yes - also torn up by some coalition disputes, but I think it was not entirely essential here that the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not actually agree at all. It is alarming when not only opponents, but also members of the government coalition have to submit amendments to adjust the mandatorial expenditure. Because, for example, in that chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the government's proposal does not set aside in its expenditure structure any funds, for example, for a recently approved one-off pensioner's contribution or for an announced and already agreed increase in the contribution to care. That is why I understand Mr Soukup's proposal, because he has taken it, even though I think the government should take it in its proposal, and not for individual Members to actually have to alter what the government should have done. For these reasons, I also had nothing left but to join those who tabled an amendment increasing the contribution to care for CZK 550 million, which is under point B9. After all, Jan Bartošek later made a similar proposal, which will probably be approved according to the Minister of Finance's statement. Under point B10, and Mrs Hnyková has already mentioned this, I also propose to increase the amount of transfers to territorial budgets for the social-legal protection of children by CZK 20 million, at the expense of the benefits of aid in material distress. koneckonců all, more parliamentary proposals have been concentrated on reducing benefits in material distress, and this has already been mentioned. Indeed, the increase in this draft budget is 12,62% compared to the known facts of 2014. That doesn't seem normal to me. The reduction in the transfer appropriations to territorial budgets for the social and legal protection of children without any reasonable explanation was very critical at the meeting of the Social Committee. My proposal under point B10 reflected this discussion and merely compares these transfers to this year's level, which is why I submit that on the Social Committee representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs were unable to explain why there is 20 million less. After all, even from this dramatic discussion, and now I am not just thinking about the Social Committee, it follows that these transfers for children's facilities requiring immediate assistance are insufficient, and it is not just the case of the kangaroos, the case of the Children's Fund. But that's what Mrs. Hnyková was talking about. The proposals we gave for the club, which I also signed, aim, on the one hand, to increase expenditure on science and research, and to increase the amount of programme funding at the Ministry of Defence, and then to save almost CZK 25 billion in the overall proposal, which will be voted after the appropriations, in favour of increasing the government's budgetary reserve. That's what we're putting at the government's disposal. Can the opposition be more helpful than putting CZK 25 billion at the disposal of the government in order to have these funds? When I have discussed many chapters in detail, because we have actually discussed the chapters, and on this basis we have proposed the savings, it is evident that some expenditures are quite duplicated. For example, in regions that get added. This also applies to the Ministry of Regional Development. In some cases, for example, in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of the Environment, subsidies are increased to business entities from national sources. Well, that doesn't exactly testify to an economical and effective government policy. On the contrary, this large amendment gives the Ministry of Finance and, in our view, the government some of these necessary expenditures, some of the possible duplication of expenditures, also in connection with real economic developments next year. I would therefore ask for a great deal of reflection on these proposals not only for Members of the Right or the opposition, but also for Members of the Government Coalition. I'd ask for support. [[16.20 hours]] And a little note to the sights. Now that I have looked, at the expense of what Mrs Kovářová is actually transferring the 342 miles. for conservation, so I must say that if this is approved, there is no way that the budget will be compromised, and neither will the General Treasury. At this point, it's just a matter of good or bad will. If there is the goodwill of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Culture, who will not stay, but actively support it, even the governments, this proposal, which I support, will certainly not pose any major problem for the development of the state budget next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u71	I thank Mr Vilímc. Mr Jan Zahradník will now prepare Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u72	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, my contribution concerns two amendments tabled as B14 and B17, and they both actually concern, at first sight, the same thing, from Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment, from the scope of environmental protection activities, non-investment subsidies to non-profit organisations, they take 12 million. CZK and increase the chapter of the landscape care program again by 12 miles. CZK, so it's a transfer between the items. One proposal was made by me, the other by colleague Zemek. They both concern, as I have already said, approximately the same, but there may be a fundamental difference in motivation. I pointed out at second reading that in recent years there has been a dramatic increase in subsidies for non-governmental non-profit organisations operating in environmental protection from year to year. Last year it was 10 million, last year it was 12 miles. When we were trying to figure out what the money, this increase, was actually going to be used by the nonprofits, we couldn't figure out where the money would go in the structure of the budget, which, in my opinion, is quite obscure. There was a certain assumption that part of the 12 million that their budget would be increased this year, or planned in this year's approved budget, would be in support of rescue stations for handicapped animals. When we tried to find the money, we failed again, so the assumption is probably justified, but that not all stations for handicapped animals are operated by non-profit NGOs, some run, for example, organizations that set up regions, such as zoos. Besides, I'm sure it won't cover a whole 12 miles. So I have made my proposal in particular so that the money is used to improve the landscape function in terms of water management, and I believe that the part that is not used by rescue stations will then also be used for these purposes. Given that Mr Zemek's proposal has the number B14 and will be voted on before my proposal, which has the number B17, our Civic Democratic Party Club will also support our colleague Zemek's proposal, with the fact that the difference between the consumption of rescue stations and 12 million will be applied precisely to programmes that - I will read here - improve the state of nature of the landscape, the programme to promote the restoration of natural functions of the landscape, i.e. water care. If this proposal was not accepted by my colleague Zemek, I would of course ask you to support the B17 proposal. We will support both of these proposals, which we have put forward together with our colleague Zemk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u73	I thank Mr Zahradník. Now, Mr Ivan Gabal, Mr Antonín Seďa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u74	Thank you. Prime Minister, Government, Mr President, colleagues, I do not want to persuade you to vote, but I would just like to inform you that the final version of the resolution of the Defence Committee that we have proposed to move 2.28 billion. in favour of the Ministry of Defence chapter, so that it can be voted, is in the proposal of B30 colleague Stanjura. I am glad that Jana Černochová and a colleague of Stanjura took part in this. It was a unison vote, which also means the ODS in the Defence Committee. Allow me just a few practical or factual information. I'm sure you'll be voting alone, quite individually. The proposal is based on the assessment of the security situation as it develops, on the assessment of our ability to respond to the needs of this situation and the possibility of modernization and, thirdly, on our ability to exceed at least 1% of GDP for defence expenditure, although we have committed ourselves to 2% in the long term. I am quite pleased and I have noted that the proposal is being discussed quite seriously, although it is probably one of the biggest financially. I'm glad to hear that from one side. On the other hand, what I would like to give you to think or think about is that the main argument that seems to be heading against this amendment is that the Ministry of Defence's Department is unable to draw the funds or existing ones, or that they remain, and that means adding them to the defense as if inefficient. The question that is worth thinking about, and I don't want to put it to rest, is whether the argument that we are unable to modernise our defence capacity and performance is that we do not give it the means to keep saving on it. We've inherited the problem, it's not new, it's been going on for quite a while, it's been going on for a decade. So the strangulation of absorption capabilities and actually a wide spectrum of need to modernize is simply a reality, but whether the low absorption capacity of the defense department in today's situation is an argument for us not to raise money there is simply something we should really think about. And the last one. I believe that the debate on where our defence should develop, as is going quite intensively between the Ministry, the General Staff and the Committee on Defence, should be taken much deeper into account in the debate on funds, which seemed to me that it was not, because it does not actually take into account the whole complexity of these issues and the vote of the Defence Committee is essentially based on the security situation, and on the other side it comes to a rather narrow aspect of the finance department. And they just don't quite meet well in my opinion, at least that was my basic impression. So I would like this debate, especially in terms of the chapter notebook and the Ministry of Finance, to be far deeper, more relevant and more aware of the arguments that we are making. And one last thing. I don't think there's any point in scaring the migratory wave or the ungodly threat of terrorist attacks, but we need to talk very factually about exactly what we can and cannot do to defend ourselves in order to face this fear. I wish you a good hand in this vote. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u75	I thank Mr Ivan Gabal. Now, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, fellow Members, I would like to ask you to support the amendment referred to in point B6 concerning the reconstruction of the former prison in Hungary Hradiště. Very briefly. In the history of the town of Uherské Hradiště, prisons played an important role. The new Neo-Renaissance building of the judicial palace with the prison was built between 1891 and 1897 by Nekvasil as the first building outside the fortress. [[16.30 hours]] It was a substitute for a prison burned down in 1891 on Franciscan Street. In the time of the first Czechoslovak Republic they were imprisoned here e.g. participants in the so-called Hodonín strike from 1921. During World War II, prison served as a detention prison before transport to concentration camps. In 1945, extraordinary popular courts were held in the judicial palace, which were set up in each regional court. Collaborators were judged and public executions were carried out by hanging in the courtyard of the prison. In the 1950's, farmers were abused mainly from Vsetinsko, who did not want to give up their property. The prison died functionally in 1960 and has been decaying ever since. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u77	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Now, Mr František Laudát, the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u78	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat here, it has already been said by our President, how the TOP 09 will react to the budget, what is our relationship or view of the amount of deficit and the like. But after all, I'm gonna stop by one of those things that you might call... [[Silence for noise in the hall. The President is asking for peace.]] Which could be called the future of the Czech Republic. I have already said this in advance to the Economic Committee that the situation in science, research, innovation and overall education of our country, and especially in terms of concepts close to and farther future, is so alarming for me that I believe that whether it is January or February or March, I believe that this would be an extraordinary meeting. We are witnessing an undignified pull if we wait, and I don't know if this House of Law Amendment 130 will come yet, which would, after all, solve the future of the law and the future of science more than in any formal matter, or we simply deserve some part of the first steps. When I look at science, research and innovation through the budget presented, the ESA has already been mentioned several times. Across the political spectrum, we pointed out here last year that we would very much like the government to change its approach to this, and after we entered and started paying a basic mandatory contribution, we started co-financing optional programmes as well. It didn't happen last year, so it happened partly for one non-Czech company this year. However, I merely point out that what I wanted together with my colleague Seďa, Pilný and others actually across the political spectrum to give a chance to purely Czech companies. When a subcommittee on the aviation, cosmonautic and innovation economic committee visits technology companies, it can be seen that the support that went there in crisis years, not in your economic growth, is effective in helping companies and seeing the results and getting companies to a completely different level than they were before. You, instead of at least holding up the finances and budgets and the trend of crisis years, are cutting back on spending, which is very sad and alarming. You're hiding behind the fact that they're virtual - so far virtual - money from the EU, so it's actually going to jump into significantly higher amounts over the next few years. But I don't think we can just spend money from the EU so that we don't get to see it as in transport one day, that without EU subsidies we won't be able to... Can I have some peace, please? I know you don't care that you have priorities, a crazy struggle for significant market power...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u79	I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm really going to ask your colleagues for some peace. I think we can hold out for a few more minutes and listen to each other. I see another priority right, one point of fact, so the debate is coming to an end. We'll vote later. But I think it's important that we listen to each other. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u80	That you have other priorities - support for the agrifood complex, maybe some concrete, but you can't get the necessary permits there, so there's not much to stop. And it's one-two-three. But you're killing the future. A future that's not about tons of coal like it was in the last century. She's not about tons of steel, about blast furnaces. She's really about the know-how, the information systems. She's about a briefcase with smart technology, with smart new material, and so on. And you are killing the future incredibly. You are unable or unwilling, not capable, but willing to take advantage of the window of economic growth. And it's too bad. We are still losing our way to the most advanced world, yet we have no future but to have advanced technologies. You here approve of laws that go completely against the sense of working in a dignified position towards the world, as it takes place in the era of globalization. But I do know that some have gotten into politics out of fear. I would ask the Social Democrats if, if they don't want to listen anymore, at least they wouldn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u81	I understand, my colleague, but I would interrupt you every minute. Well, I hope my colleagues and colleagues can hold on and hear you out to the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u82	Thank you. So instead, you're actually going the way of the past and our successors, even us, because the development is very fast, it's going to get very, very back. Therefore, I appeal again to you to consider, or if you no longer want to support, for example, the amendment of the group of Members to the ESA's greater financial support, then to those who mean it, I ask you, unlike the government, to at least symbolically refrain from making it clear to the government that it is alone in this stupidity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u83	I thank Mr František Laudát. We now have two factual points. First, Mr Klaška, then Mrs Kovářová, and with priority rights, Vice-President of the Government of Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a very brief comment on some amendments. KDU-ČSL supports the amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets. In this context, amendments are made to support universities, to promote sport, as well as to amend my colleague Kaňkovský's proposal to promote reproduction of property to non-state actors in the social field, i.e. for investments in social services. Among other amendments, I would like to draw attention to and support the amendment of my colleague Soukup's proposal to increase the binding ratio of pension benefits of CZK 600 million, the amendment of my colleague Bartošek's proposal - the contribution to the care of disabled people under the Social Services Act of CZK 520 million, as well as the amendment of the proposal to settle wage funds in private and ecclesiastical schools of CZK 156,9 million. I would like to say that, for example, church schools are included in the education system, students go to them without distinction of religion or even without religion, they are given an elite education here, according to my court. I do not fully understand why teachers of such schools should not receive adequate, at least normal wages for their above-average work. Then I would also like to draw attention to the amendment to the increase in the Ministry of Defence's programming funding, as my colleague Gabal has said here, for two reasons. Due to the long-term underfinancing of this Chapter and due to the current international situation. Well, we've already talked about monuments here. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u85	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Kovářová, also on the point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u86	Thank you. I was pleased to note that Minister Herman expressed his support for the amendment on the restoration of cultural monuments. On the Committee on Budgets, I noted that the chairman of the Committee on Budgets also noted that this was not a bad idea, that the Coalition Council would still be discussing this and, if necessary, submit an amendment, or that this could be regarded as support. As it turns out, the only one standing in the way of restoring cultural monuments is Minister Babiš. I think it would be appropriate for the Minister, like Minister Herman, to comment on his position and his motives on the microphone. Or has he decided today to keep the beaver's silence about monuments? And I would also ask the Prime Minister to explain to me why this government's priority is not to restore cultural monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u87	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Berdychová, on a point of fact, and then the Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek, still signed up. I do not see Mrs Berdychová, so her application is forfeit and I will ask the Vice-President of the Government, Pavel Bělobrádek, to use his application. Prime Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u88	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, I only address those complaints concerning the state budget for science and research. I'd like to fix some of my colleagues. First of all, as far as the comparison with Israel is concerned, we are in a very similar position and the state is giving about 1%, which is recommended. If you're talking about another percentage, it's from private sources. There Israel can certainly be a role model for us, because in addition to the 1% that the state gives, there are up to 4% that the private sector gives. So there's a little bit where you mixed some pears and apples. As far as the trend from previous years is concerned, we are not really continuing it because this year there will be an increase of 2.5 billion. CZK from the medium term perspective. I think that essentially more than 8% of the increase in science and research from the state budget is therefore a real success, I believe, and the government is not eating this money, but it is a significant increase. Not to mention that even in the medium term, which was not respected, there is an increase of 2.4 and 2.6 billion in the following years. Crowns. Well, I don't really understand the criticism, because the increase is big and completely incomparable with the last few years. As far as ESA is concerned, I understand that. We are now debating with Minister Took where the aviation and astronauts sector should go, because he is ready - and I too - to debate that this area would go from the Ministry of Transport. Of course, other funding is involved. As far as Act 130 is concerned, there is basically an amendment that is technical-harmonic. There's nothing stopping anyone from making an amendment that's going through a proper legislative board, going through the government, etc. The fact that this amendment, which I support a substantial part of it, was not really about individual items, but it was about or voted on the law as a whole, it simply ended up being rejected by both committees. There's gonna be a round table, and I'm ready to discuss it further. Above all, the round table is heading towards a new law, which should actually make changes of a fundamental nature. Repeat, 2.5 billion. CZK versus medium-term outlook, 28.6 billion. I do not find the koruna really small, and I think that the government here, on the contrary, does not deserve criticism and that there would be really less politics in science and more science in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u89	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bělobrádek. That was the last one entered into the debate. If no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. Before we continue, I will make an apology to Mr Milan Šarapatka from 16 o'clock until the end of today's negotiations. So we can ask for final words. Minister. Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to comment on the budget. I would like to say that the Czech Republic is doing well. Of course, we can argue who's to blame. There was such a mantra that we grow according to Germany. It looks like we're growing three times faster than Germany now. The Czech Republic has one of the lowest deficits in Europe, we have the second lowest unemployment. We've lost 88,000 unemployed in a year. We reduce deficits, we have one of the lowest deficits, we have one of the smallest debt in the European Union. Since the rise of our coalition government, we have reduced the government's debt to GDP by four points - 41.3 at the end of 2013 and by the end of 2016, it will be 37.3, so four points in three years. Of course, we can argue who's taking credit, but I think, as we got in, we pumped the money into the economy. Six months after my arrival, I started implementing the program of investment in primary schools around Prague, which Mrs Kovářová called for and her boss did not want to give it to her, for example. And we pumped the money into consumption and investment. Our ministers are doing their best to drain money from European funds. Some have put in place crisis management. And we have done our utmost to drain the resources that are from the European Union, because we have taken over in a situation where it has not actually been drawn. So this is clearly the action of this government that has started growth, and we have one of the highest. Of course, the planning of European money, as Mr Stanjura criticised here, so I would just like to remind you that the European Union has no time limit for paying the money that it owes us. We're also doing our best to drain the money. Only the Department of Transport has invoicing for December 25 billion. The koruna, and it looks like it's going to be possible that it's going to drain everything out of those funds. So it's definitely our credit that we're doing well. And I understand that some people don't like it. When we did the deficit and talked about the deficit, it is one of the lowest in Europe, and it is half Maastricht, perhaps less, and we are also filling Mr Kalousek's mantra - the structural deficit when we reduce it from minus 1,8 % 2015 to minus 1,4 % 2016. So I don't understand why the criticism. And, of course, we voted for some compromise between a government deficit of 70 billion. and a rapidly growing economy. If Mr Stanjura here criticized the EIA, but, Mr President, the EIA - I don't understand why, when the EIA was on the table in the 1990s, why didn't anyone finish the zoning decision and the building permit, why didn't anyone build those highways? I really don't understand. We aim to complete the Prague-Ústí motorway, if it succeeds, in December 2016. The highway was built in 1985, so we're going to celebrate 31 years of construction 90 km of highway. It's just to the edge. [[16.50 hours]] So I think we're in good shape and we're just at the beginning of the journey. There was a big debate about the defense department. I am indeed surprised by Mr Kalousek's concern - through the President - for the army. I mean, his concern is touching. The soldiers remember him with a tear in their eye, his parachutes, his wasted time, the Gripens, the pandurs, the barracks on the square of the Republic, etc. I really enjoy it when someone who's involved in the destruction of the Defense Department is preaching to us here. And your proposal, please, Mr. Gabal, I told you at the cafeteria, so I'll do it again. The draw on December 7th, the defense department, budget 2015, that's 43,8 plus reserves plus unused expenses. Defense can draw $50 billion today. And how much does it take for Monday? 36.46! And why isn't it pumping? Well, because we have a law on public procurement. Because the state is impotent to invest quickly and it works the way it works. So, please, the defense has enough money, and we've increased our budget by 4 billion next year -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u91	Prime Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House again for peace. We are just before the vote on the state budget of the Czech Republic, and so please pay due attention to this. If you have other discussions, transfer them to the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u92	So according to our estimates, we're going to transfer about 4.2 billion plus 4 billion increases to the Defense Department next year, that's 8.2 billion. That's an increase of almost 20 percent. I wish we could actually make it. And the fact that the Defense Department -- the military is undercapitalized, yes, that's true, but who's to blame, I don't want to debate that much here. About the comments that we hired too many civil servants. Yes, we need a teacher, we need 5,000 soldiers, we need 5,000 policemen. And why does the Financial Administration need an employee? Because we inherited Prague, for example, a tax haven, where she went to check once every 200 years. Because no one has tried to collect taxes before, and today we are fighting tax fraud, against VAT gap, which costs us about 20 billion a year, against another grey economy, etc. So we need people. And I think we've discussed this very carefully, and it's not true that we're wasting it. Of course, in the current situation, safety is a priority for us. I would love to - some of my colleagues here have been performing with migration. Please, there are 125 migrants in the Czech Republic at this time, so don't worry any more. I think our government and the State Security Council are paying maximum attention to this, and we're ready if anything happens, but I don't think it's a threat. So I would love it if we were objective. With regard to the issue of budgeting the revenue of the state budget, I think everyone knows that established practice under left-wing, right-wing, and official governments has happened to include revenue in the budget following the drafts of laws that went through the first reading. So within this budget, we're actually talking about a gambling tax that will be read tomorrow in the Senate. I'd just like to ask you to support it. I don't understand why some of your senators are getting out of the opposition and saying, well, we don't really need those two billion dollars for that budget. Why are we doing this? We are doing this because we are the main gambling law, which, hopefully, we will finish for the first time today, submitted already on December 19, 2014, and we haven't made it and we won't be able to make the notification. That's why we're doing this. So I think that the budget is actually presented by the rules and by the law. Then I would like to comment on culture. It's been repeated here several times. Mrs Kovářová criticizes me for not having been to interpelations. Yes, I'm sorry about that. But I think we talked about it x-times. The restoration of monuments, yes, 2014 it was 558 million, 2015 - 617, 2016 - 658. I think the Ministry of Culture didn't have a problem with that. But I don't understand that you need more money - we all need more money, I ask, why does the opposition do everything they can to make more money? Why are you fighting a check report to bring in 10 billion? Why are you fighting EET - that's 12 plus 6. Why are you fighting gambling, there's 30 billion there. Mrs. Kovářová, lobby with you, convince the opposition to raise your hand. It's 30 billion a year, and we can give a billion to restore the sights. I don't have a problem with that. As part of the cash flow management of the Ministry of Finance, which has different access to money management than before, we issued 101 billion bonds with negative interest this year. Today we sold 14.4 billion for minus 0.322 percent p. a. and cashed 97 million crowns. The Ministry of Finance made 413 million in these operations. This is more than an amendment to restore cultural monuments where you want 340. I don't have a problem with that. I'm just asking -- you're fighting for a bigger RUD, you're fighting for monuments, I want to give sights too. But why don't you want to collect more taxes! Why are you doing everything we can to enforce the EET to enforce control reports to enforce gambling? [[A strong round of applause for members of the YES.]] So support us and there is no problem going back to that chapter of the budget, i.e. the chapter on the restoration of cultural monuments. I must say, I was very disappointed with Mr. Dolejš's performance. Since you've been sitting here, I thought you'd be more constructive. I don't know what blunt cuts. What blunt cuts? We didn't make blunt cuts. We're the ones who cut off the politics. We have brought recovery, which is why we have one of the biggest growths in Europe. Our government did it. We've added to the salary. People aren't afraid to spend. People shop. It's Christmas, there's a lot of business. People believe that this government will bring a different situation, that it will be better. And I think it's getting a little better. [[Ironic laughter and notes from the right.]] Yes, I was talking about hundreds of billions at the pre-election meetings, and the contribution to public budgets, Mr Dolejš, through the President, in 2014, 2015, 2016 is plus 173 billion. Is 173 billion more than 100 billion? It is. And how much will be the public budget contribution for 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 - 303 billion. Is that more than 100 billion? Yeah, three times. So I wasn't kidding. So I do what I say, what I do. And please don't tell me we don't collect more taxes if that's not true. As of 30. 11. we collected 58.7 billion more in taxes compared to 30 November 2014 in VAT by 5.21. Income taxes... [[Response to comments:]] They're in the bank account, they're in the Treasury. You can come back tomorrow, I'll show you. VAT plus 5,21. Corporate tax plus 12 billion. Personal income tax plus 4.52. And we've been cutting taxes. We lost 16 billion in coalition agreements. About what? After all, we have introduced - we have returned the discount to the working pensioners, we have introduced kindergarten fees, that is 6.5 billion. We also had to return - former Minister Kalousek actually introduced a donation tax for emission allowances 2011 and 2012. That's costing us $4 billion now! It's an inheritance from him that we had to return. [[17,00 hours]] So if I were to take this into account, we'd have chosen 70 billion. 11 months later, more. So please don't say we don't collect taxes anymore. We choose, and we're only at the beginning. Because you're doing everything you can, especially the opposition, to enforce (?) EET. You still want to do an emergency meeting for the inspection report. I don't understand why you want to support criminals stealing from us for VAT. I really don't understand. So I would love to see this constructively, to support our projects, which will bring more money into the budget for everyone, for pensioners, for policemen, for soldiers, for firefighters and for the communities and cities you lobby for, and so would I. I want to give them more, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u93	Thank you for the final word of the plaintiff. Therefore, unfortunately, under the Rules of Procedure, I still have to give a factual word, a factual comment to those who have priority rights, and I cannot grant it to others who do not. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura and colleague Černoch, is here. And also Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. But please, we're after the plaintiff's final word. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although it seemed virtually impossible, this final speech exceeded the material presented by its shamelessness, its figures and the arguments put forward by it. I think they both deserve a tribute. Both the talk and the incredible and unacceptable material that we're going to vote on. Let me honor the translator with one of the most famous and famous slogans of the election campaign YES: "We are a capable nation, only we are ruled by clumsies and packers."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u95	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanjure. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u96	I don't have a factual point, I volunteered with priority rights. It is very difficult to respond to such dissecting speech, when many things are folded that have nothing to do with the budget. But let's try from the end. The inspection report will affect approximately half a million subjects. More than half a million. And these are thieves!, said the Minister of Finance. And I say that's not true! It's not true! What do carousel stores do companies with a turnover of 10, 20, 30 miles. A year? Incredible amount of business data you want to collect! Unbelievable amount. I read quite a funny comment that for the first time it will be submitted on February 25th and it is the new Winning February for the State. Instead of going after those who actually take away the hundreds of millions, you focus on everyone. Nonsensely high fines, unpreparedness of the project. First information, you know, after we filed the bill, the Ministry of Finance informed the business public in the "record" time of 14 days. I mean, half. Three hundred thousand subjects received one A4 either by email or into a data box. And that's called an information campaign to bring in ten billion. It won't bring anything! Those who stole will continue to steal and you will annoy the decent and honest, whom the vast majority are. I was talking about EET, he's not bringing anything. Look into your beloved Croatia, how much income they have increased. Nothing! Zero! At the same time, you say you want to straighten out the business environment at EET. Well, look at your coalition deals! What are you suggesting for everyone? Now? No, for the sensitive one, and it's good for the sensitive category of businessmen, there's a delay for the next election. You don't believe it yourself, that's why you're putting it off for the next election. Just so the voters don't try it on before the election. So nothing like that. We didn't slow down at gambling. We voted in favour of the bill in the Chamber of Deputies. We voted in favour. So don't always say the opposition was against it. Then I have to say EIA. I don't know if the Treasury Secretary has read the material I think Minister Brabec. So the law is 1991 or 1992, but the last EIA statement under this law was issued in 2006. And it's the first stage of the project documentation. Ask your transport minister how long it takes. So it's not from the '90s. The last one is from 2006 and you didn't negotiate it. That's it! You didn't negotiate it. Now look at the material, it's 11 pages, it's government material. You go there from July to violin, to Brussels, and nothing! That is why I say that if we are to have a chance, I think the Prime Minister must negotiate it on a political level, not on a bureaucratic level. If I am wrong, only good for the Czech Republic. It is really funny when the finance minister, whose party has the Ministry of Regional Development for two years, says: "We have a stupid law on public procurement." What have you been doing for two years? You and your colleagues who are in charge! Why haven't you changed it a long time ago? [[Let's hear it from the ODS desks.]] You haven't been in government for a week, but two years! [[He speaks loudly, expressively. There are reactions from the O.R., for example: Don't shout!]] And you still act like you're in a campaign when you're not in control. So what have you done in two years? Mr President, I would like Members not to speak to me. They can sign up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u97	They cannot come forward, Mr President, because it is after the debate that has been concluded that after the final word of the Minister of Finance, only those who have priority rights can speak because I cannot take that word away from them. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u98	So they can yell at me, Mr. Vice-President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u99	They can't yell at you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u100	Then I beg you to set me straight! I know you don't like what I'm saying, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't drive a meeting correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u101	I have no objection to what you say. If I wanted to, I would join the debate and, of course, I would be glad if the House calmed down. I calm her down almost every minute. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u102	Thank you. On the other hand, I have to agree with the Minister of Finance, the first sentences he said: "The Czech Republic is doing well. We're doing fine. We have low unemployment, low debt." Except he says that for 25 years, this republic has gone the wrong way. How is that possible? You have to choose! Either we went in the right direction - I'm not saying that there were no mistakes, that's no way - and we went in the right direction and that's why the Czech Republic is doing well. And it's interesting that the one who came out of the business environment succumbed to that bureaucratic view of the world that the success of the economy was not the success of entrepreneurs and employers, but it was the success of the government. Interesting change. I just don't believe it. And it doesn't matter who's in the government. I think it's the success of entrepreneurs and employers. Except for the jobs you created, the 22,000. Clerical posts in two years. That's all true. So another time, you say 70 billion. is a coalition compromise, and it is true, and you would imagine a lower state budget deficit. And when I say it or the opposition says it, you say, "That's a wild criticism of the opposition!" Then you should have put it in the coalition! You'd have our support. That's exactly what it is. We have proposed a return, a revision and a reduction. And you yourself, for example, found 1 billion 100 miles of material emergency. Just like that, one day at a time. So by specific procedures, by your procedures, you're right about us. So don't distract me. Just clear the basics: did we go in the right direction or did we not go in the right direction? We went in a good direction, which is why the Czech Republic is doing well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u103	That was Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, now Mr Marek Černoch with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u104	Thank you for the floor. I would very much like to turn against the accusation that we fear that there are only 125 immigrants in our territory. You know very well what the situation is, how quickly the situation can change. And the fact that we're asking for money... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Please don't yell at me, colleague. The fact that we are demanding money to protect national borders, that this situation can touch us very quickly. Go see Europe. Dawn has been saying its opinion for a long time. We don't change it when events happen in Paris, when suddenly everyone comes out with statements that it is necessary to close the borders, that immigrants need to be returned. We've been saying this for a very long time, and the demands we've made are about protecting the state border. So please don't say, Minister, we're haunted. That nothing can happen to us in the Czech Republic. As far as gambling is concerned, you said the opposition didn't support the Gambling Act. We backed the gambling bill. On the contrary, we brought there an amendment that was even harder. Last one. Saying that the opposition supports a VAT thief... I don't think an extraordinary meeting is supporting thieves, that there are people who are decent, and that the accusation that we support thieves is really inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u105	Thank you. We now have the final word of the rapporteur, if he is considering it. No, he's not. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. Sorry, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club František Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u106	Thank you for the floor. One. I find it extremely unfair that Mr Babiš here has spoken with the final word and so many assaults and has not allowed the House, Members, to rejoin. If you're even a little fair government, somebody's gonna get up and reopen the debate. First of all. Two. How many years will you need to change one law, e.g. Public Procurement Act? When your term of office began in the Economic Committee, Mrs Jourová came, promised that the technical rapid amendment, which was sometime early in March, would make it to June last year, and by the end of last year, the great transposition of the European new standard, which has now passed through the first reading. So this falls on your head. Let me remind you, Minister, that it was your party, which, in spite of all the agreements here, will liberalize the law so that it can be built more flexibly, built faster and without much attack and investigation - killed your own amendments. So the situation in the public procurement department is totally on your side, your MPs, so you can call yourself a bitch. As far as the EIA is concerned, it's interesting, you didn't know anything about the problem. You didn't hear it here until your colleague Kučera attacked the Minister of the Environment. But I guess it was a coincidence that all of a sudden the material that you were discussing in the government came out of nowhere. And, indeed, we, in advance of the economic committee, drew attention to the risk, yet your minister pushed for a maximumist or rather a maximumist option, which was then adopted as an amendment to the law. We didn't support her. So please, again - it's your problem, it's even your minister's problem, on your side. So please, again - don't manipulate and don't make a speech that someone has a different responsibility. For the next one. Perhaps everyone has seen - and keep the shortcuts and the crap that somebody's been up against gambling. As far as I know, the Members here have been across the political spectrum, the proposal has been approved, so please keep these public lies out of the way, we're not curious about that. As far as we're concerned, why we're defending the EET. Unfortunately, maybe we should have warned the public more strongly about what you were up to with the inspection report. You're not picking anything. Maybe if something's been wrong in the past 26 years, it's that they haven't been consistently chased by cheaters to dig up tens of billions and then go into politics. As far as the EET is concerned, it's already been said here. You don't pick anything, and you just eliminate a lot of small, small businessmen whose biggest fault is that they want to feed themselves and not go to the office of work. Freeway... [[A note from the diaper.]] You don't build highways. I think some of you should go back to the first-class general school to tell you what decent behavior and decent statements are. As for the sights, I'm sorry that my colleague Kovářová couldn't respond here. The same thing Prime Minister Bělobrádek said here also does not correspond to reality, I am sorry, but I will not have controversy with him today, it is about the budget and in January or February we will actually present the facts so that it is quite obvious where this issue is going for the future. As far as monuments are concerned, the Republic is really ten million if it supports the restoration of monuments at a time of economic growth of 658, then 700 or how many millions, so it really is a blow like thunder! When we talk about citizens' concerns, and so, unfortunately, those concerns begin with the loss of cultural roots, the loss of the past, and there is the first key to not being afraid of the present and future. And that's exactly what you're confirming is that this government is a government of budgetary irresponsibleness, gambling, and killing the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u107	That was Mr František Laudát, and because the rapporteur was not interested in the final word before we proceed to the vote on the amendments that the rapporteur will make - Mrs Věra Kovářová submitted at second reading pursuant to Paragraph 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on Rules of Procedure, a proposal for a second reading. That is why it needs to be voted in a procedural manner before the other amendments, and I will therefore put it to a vote. I'm gonna check you all out first, ask you for a new registration. In the vote, order number 166, we will decide whether the House wants to repeat the second reading of the State Budget Act. I've started voting number 166 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 166. Of the 179 for 36, versus 113 present. The motion was not accepted. In that case, I would like the rapporteur to present and comment on the various amendments before the vote, and I will, of course, also ask the Minister of Finance for an opinion. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u108	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, according to the approved voting procedure, we should now be the first to vote in the A-book, i.e. the amendments contained in the budget committee's resolution, and according to the procedure, we agreed that we would vote this whole en bloc, i.e. A1 through A8 together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u109	Thank you. We will vote A1 through A8. [[The rapporteur's opinion is positive, the Minister's opinion is affirmative.]] I've started voting number 167 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 167. From the present 182 to 181, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u110	Now we should vote on the B-book, the amendments that were tabled at second reading, and, according to the approved voting procedure, we should first vote on the Stanjury B31 amendments, etc., because we voted individually to be a point by point. So the first point is B31/1. My opinion is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u111	I've started the vote on order 168 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 168. Of the present 182 for 73, versus 98. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u112	Next, we should vote B31/2. My opinion is disapproval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u113	I've started the vote on order 169 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 169. Of the present 182 for 69, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u114	We would also vote B31/3. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u115	I've started the vote with order number 170. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 170 of 183 present for 70, against 107. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u116	Next, it's B31/4. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u117	I've started the vote with order number 171. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 171 of 183 present for 70, against 103. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u118	Next up, B31/5. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u119	I've started the vote with order number 172. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 172 of 183 present for 71, against 105. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u120	B31/6. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u121	I've started the vote with order number 173. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 173 of 183 present for 74, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u122	B31/7. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u123	I've started the vote with order number 174. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 174 of 183 present for 67, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u124	B31/8. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u125	I've started the vote with order number 175. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 175 of the 183 present for 65, against 108. The motion was not accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u126	B31/9. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u127	I've begun the vote with order number 176. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 176 of 183 present for 63, against 108. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u128	B31/10. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u129	I've started the vote with order number 177. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 177 of 183 present for 63, against 106. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u130	B31/11. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u131	I've started the vote with order number 178. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 178 of 183 present for 65, against 107. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u132	B31/12. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u133	I've started voting order number 179. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 179 of 183 present for 64, against 106. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u134	B31/13. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u135	I've begun the vote with order number 180. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 180 of the 183 present for 60, against 105. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u136	B31/14. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u137	I've started the vote with serial number 181. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 181 of the 183 present for 66, against 100. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u138	B31/15. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u139	I've started the vote with serial number 182. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 182 of the 183 present for 58, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u140	B31/16. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u141	I've started the vote with order number 183. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 183 of the 183 present for 66, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u142	B31/17. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u143	I've started the vote with serial number 184. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, serial number 184 of 183 present for 78 against 98. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u144	B31/18. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u145	I've started the vote with order number 185. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 185 of 183 present for 59, against 110. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u146	B31/19. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u147	I've started the vote with order number 186. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 186 of 183 present for 61, against 111. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u148	B31/20. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u149	I've started the vote with order number 187. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 187 of 183 present for 70, against 98. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u150	B31/21. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u151	I have begun the vote by order number 188. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 188 of the 183 present for 61, against 103. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u152	B31/22. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u153	I've started the vote with order number 189. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 189 of the 183 present for 73, against 100. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u154	B31/23. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u155	I started voting number 190. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 190, present 183, for 63, against 106. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u156	B31/24. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u157	I started voting number 191. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 191, 183, for 63, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u158	B31/25. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u159	I started voting number 192. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 192, from 183 present, for 61 Member, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u160	B31/26. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u161	I started voting number 193. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 193, 183, for 60, against 108. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u162	B31/27. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u163	I started voting number 194. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 194, present 183, for 65, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u164	We've dealt with points B31/... etc. We will therefore vote from the beginning. B/1 disagree. [[The rapporteur comes to the legislative body and consults on what else needs to be voted on. The sound level suddenly increased in the hall.]] So the legislation tells me that we should vote B/30 now before. I'm a little different. But so be it. B/30 is the proposal of colleague Stanjura and colleague Černochová with Vilímc. Is that good enough for you? [[Members in the benches nod.]] The position is disagreeable. B/30 disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u165	I started voting number 195. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 195, present 183, for 52, against 90. The motion was not accepted. I'll delete the actual notes. Please continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u166	B/1. My colleague Ondráček, his amendment. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u167	I started voting number 196. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 196, 183, for 33, versus 138. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u168	B/2. This is my colleague, Soukup. 600 million. Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u169	I started voting number 197. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Vote number 197 from 183 present, for 183, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u170	B/3. Mrs. Semelová. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u171	I started voting number 198. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 198, present 183, for 40, against 130. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u172	B/4. Another amendment by Mrs Semelová. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u173	I started voting number 199. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 199, 183, for 34, versus 136. The motion was not accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u174	B/5, which is a joint amendment by colleagues Sed, Laudát and Pilný. I apologize for not saying titles or gentlemen Members. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u175	I've started voting number 200. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 200, 183, 73, 83. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u176	B/6. Also a colleague of mine, Sedya. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u177	I've started voting order number 201. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 201, 183, 52, 79. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u178	B/7. A colleague of mine, Seďa, again. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u179	I started voting number 202. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 202, 183, 57, 83. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u180	B/8. A colleague of mine, Seďa, again. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u181	I started voting number 203. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 203, 183, 56, 78. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u182	B/9. Mr. Mr. Vilímec. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u183	I started voting number 204. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 204, 182, 60, 99. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u184	B/10. A colleague of mine, Vilímec. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u185	I've started voting number 205. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 205, 183, 46 and 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u186	Mr Gabal's B/11 is unvoting because we would lower the government's budget reserve below the legal limit. So we're not going to vote on it. [[- Yes. Next.]] B/12. Mr. Rais. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u187	I started voting number 206. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 206, 183, 66, 94. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u188	B/13 - Mr Bartošek. Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u189	I started voting number 207. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 207 of 183 for 176, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u190	B/14 - Mr Zemek. My position is neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u191	I started voting number 208. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote 208 of 183 present for 153, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u192	B/15 - Mr Laudát. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u193	I started voting number 209. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 209 of 183 present for 58, against 98. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u194	B/16 - also Mr Laudát. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u195	I've started voting 210. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote 210 of 183 present for 40, against 106. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u196	B/17 - Mr Zahradník. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u197	I've started voting number 211. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 211 of 183 present for 49, against 94. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u198	B/18 - colleagues Adámek, Procházka, Šincl, Kolovratník. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u199	I started voting number 212. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 212 of 183 present for 64, against 89. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u200	We now have an alternative amendment, namely B19/1 to 19/3. First, we would vote on variant number one, i.e. B/19/2. It is Mrs Zelienková's amendment. Variant number one - disagreeable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u201	I started voting number 213. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 213 of 183 present for 26, against 101. The motion was not accepted. Next?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u202	Now we would vote on variant two, i.e. B19/3. The position is also disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u203	I started voting number 214. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote 214 of 183 present for 19, against 109. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u204	B/20 - this is the amendment of my colleague, Mr Černoch. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u205	I started voting number 215. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 215 of 183 present for 27, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u206	B/21 - also a colleague of Černoch. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u207	I've begun voting number 216. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 216 of 183 present for 26, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u208	We have B/22 in two variants. Variant number one B/22/2. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u209	I've started voting number 217. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote 217 of 182 present for 65, against 98. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u210	And variant number two - B/22/3. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u211	I've started voting number 218. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 218 of 183 present for 54, against 88. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u212	We also have B23 in two variants. It is Mrs Kovářová's amendment. So first, variant number one - B23/1. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u213	I started voting number 219. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 219 of 183 present for 63, against 89. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u214	And variant number two - B23/5. It's also a disagreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u215	I started voting number 220. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 220 of 183 present for 45, against 90. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u216	Next is B24 - also in two variants. Variant number one - B24/1 and this is an amendment by Mrs Kovářová. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u217	I started voting number 221. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 221 of the 183 present for 51, against 87. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u218	Second variant - B24/2. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u219	I started voting number 222. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 222 of 183 for 41 Members present, against 88. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u220	B/25 - Colleagues and Colleagues Kovářová, Ženíšek and Blessed. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u221	I started voting number 223. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 223 of the 183 present for 45, against 100. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u222	B/26 - Mr Grospič. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u223	I started voting number 224. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 224 of 183 present for 36, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u224	B/27 again in two variants. It's from Mr. Hovorka. So the first variant B/27/1. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u225	I started voting number 225. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 225 of 183 present for 44, against 97. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u226	Second variant B/27/2. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u227	I started voting number 226. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 226 of 183 present for 49, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u228	B/28 - Mr Filip. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u229	I started voting number 227. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 227 of 183 present for 49, against 104. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u230	B/29 - colleague Fiala together with colleague Stanjura, Vilímc and Beznoska. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u231	I started voting number 228. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 228 of 183 present for 49, against 101. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u232	If I am not mistaken, Mr Vice-President, we voted on all the amendments tabled at second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u233	I think I agree with you because I have notes that everything is settled. Do any of those who tabled amendments feel that we did not vote on his proposal? It's not like that. In that case, we voted on all the amendments and we can continue, and that is - a motion has been made for an accompanying resolution that we can...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u234	We wouldn't - I don't want to advise you, Mr. Vice-President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u235	... vote after possible approval, because there is no other way to vote. [[Rapporteur: Vote after, yes.]] So we will vote on the draft law on the state budget as a whole, in the vote number 229. But first, I will read the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 according to the House Press 617 as amended by the amendments approved in the annex to this resolution'. I've started voting number 229 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 229 of the 182 present for 104, against 78. I state that consent has been given to the bill [[Longer applause in the entire courtroom.]] I therefore now ask the rapporteur, as I have sent, to present the motion for an accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u236	Yes, we would now vote as the last vote on the accompanying resolution. I'd like to read it. It is Mr Bendl's accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Agriculture to make priority allocation of unused expenditure in 2015 and apparently unnecessary and unused expenditure during 2016 to address drought and forest development.' My opinion is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u237	I have begun voting number 230 and I ask who is in favour of the accompanying resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 230 of 183 present for 71, against 73. The motion for an accompanying resolution was rejected. By this we settled point 143, third reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016. Thank you to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš, thank you to the Chairman of the budget committee Václav Votav and I finish point 143. The state budget has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-006-143.u238	Good evening, dear colleagues. We'll continue with the next point, that's the point.
