ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u1	55. Government bill amending Act No. 131/2015 Coll., amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and other related laws /house printing 538/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I see Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. I thank him for staying at the newsstand. The rapporteur Milan Urban will also remain at the rapporteur's table - he has left it, so I call on him to appear, and I give the Minister my word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is submitting a proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act for discussion. Let me introduce it to you and ask you to support the solution to the problem that arose in the case of the last amendment to the Energy Act by an inaccurate amendment in the Chamber of Deputies. Although the amendment has delayed the effectiveness of the newly established Institute of the ERU Board, it is not part of the Civil Service Act, employment, sickness and pension insurance, etc. This is what I propose to remedy in the amendment now tabled, by removing the effectiveness of all the mentioned parts of the last amendment to the Energy Act, which affect the establishment of the ERU Council. Due to the need to take effect of this Act as of 1. 1. 2016 I would like to propose that the Chamber of Deputies agree to the bill at first reading. If this does not pass, I will propose a reduction in the time limits to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur Milan Urban to take up his reporting report for the first reading of this press. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u4	Thank you for the floor. Simple standard, the minister described it, so I have nothing to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u5	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, the President of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek, and then in the debate that I started, duly signed up Members. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u6	Thank you. The Minister will certainly not be surprised that we do not want to deprive ourselves of our work on the committees, and therefore I dare, on behalf of the two ODS and TOP 09, to enter into negotiations under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u7	Okay, that's probably a delightful debate for us. So now in the debate, Mrs Olga Havlová, Mr Karel Fiedler will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is widely known here that I defend the independence of the guard dog of Czech energy, namely the current Energy Regulatory Authority. We've been holding seminars for over a year, fighting a legislative bastard. Even now the European Union is supposed to be investigating us as to whether we have legislation in accordance with the European one, because we are still avoiding energy. An example was the establishment of the Energy Regulatory Authority Council. The approved amendment from the Ministry of Industry and Trade workshop is so bad that it can also mean the break-up of the office. This is a direct politicalization of the Office, when the Council members are selected by the Minister of Industry and approved by the Government, but above all, the Minister of Industry will be able to appeal anyone at any time on the basis of a violation. The council members are therefore at the mercy of the Minister of Industry. The President of the Republic has been expelled from the appointment and appeal process, and this is a clear signal that the Office is to be placed under the direct supervision of executive powers. To this day, the Ministry has not bothered to answer a number of questions related to the formation of the council. Our arguments were downplayed or even denied, and yet the ministerial caravan went on, so the energy lobby eventually won. Although the Minister has stated on television that the President will be in office until the end of his term of office, he will probably succeed not only in getting the Chair of the ERO but also in getting its Vice-President out of office. We have prepared our amendment the day after we passed the law by the President. The aim of our bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws and other related laws approved by Parliament in May 2015 would remove the errors that arose through amendments. [[Energy law]] In particular, an error has been made in Section XIX Effectiveness which raises doubts as to whether or not the President and Vice-President of the EROs are civil servants. The above error lies in the fact that Section 17b of the Energy Act, which repeals the functions of President and Vice-President and establishes the ERU Council, takes effect on 1 August 2017, but in the list of persons referred to in Section 2 (1) (a) of the Energy Act. Article 4 (1) (a) (g) Law No 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, shall be replaced by the person of the President and Vice-President of the ERU by a member of the ERU Council as of 1 January 2016. The proposed amendment has this lack to be eliminated. The government has prepared its novel, which we are discussing here today, and it has called ours the worse one. But the fact is that the moment is coming when legislative complexity can occur and the Energy Regulatory Office will be completely out of control, unless we all come together today and approve the proposal of the Minister of Industry and Trade, so that after 1 January 2016, we will still have the leadership of the ERO. If today's technical amendment goes classically to committees, or even does not approve, champagne solar barons, energy oligarchs, and other exquisites who earn billions a year at electricity, gas and heat prices on us, on all citizens. Since January, they will be able to do whatever they want, because we will have no leadership. It would be an international disgrace and a mockery to all people in the Czech Republic. It would be a start of chaos and a threat to our state's energy security. Although it could also be the end of the Minister, because he was here publicly suffocating that the law was okay, that there were no threats and that we were just scaring the water, and he himself prepared an amendment to the law, which is not even effective, and he has already admitted several fatal errors with different consequences. And a series of fatal errors of the House still awaits us to remove them here, e.g. selection of money for the Office's activities, control of solar power plants, because the competence law left the State Energy Inspection, and a number of other things. When I criticized here that the President of the ERU Council was actually becoming Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade, which is contrary to the European rules for the independence of the regulator, I had no idea that the entire ERU would de facto become a department of the Ministry of the Interior under state service and that it would not have its own leadership. The Deputy Minister gave me the reasons for the negative position of the Ministry in discussing my amendment by saying that my proposal for amendments to the ERU Council is against the Service Act. Neither I nor the others knew that it was probably part of some future plan that the entire ERO would fall under the service law immediately. I am very concerned about the way this energy law is put into life. I have criticized not only the very nature of the law, but also the legislative process by which the law was approved. At seminars on the energy law, a number of hidden threats arising from the law were made clear from experts' mouths. So far, they've all filled up and still filling up. The amendment of the Energy Act directly leads to the crippling of the activities of the EROs, bringing chaos and harming consumers. For this law, there was no standard process in terms of law and legislative procedures. More than a thousand comments from 40 different entities were made in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. A number of changes came into the law at the last minute and without proper discussion. It was also very surprising that the law was placed at an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The legal regulation has not been properly discussed and the effects on the activities of the Energy Regulatory Authority are sometimes tragic. Again and again, after the hundredth time, I believe that the ERU has been trying to fight for consumers' rights, reduce electricity, gas and heat prices, trying to reduce the solar tunnel, and this must probably be punished. Apparently, there are higher interests in the fact that the Energy Regulatory Authority must not, at any cost, remain a watchdog on the market and may not even remain a full term of office. The Ministry repeatedly follows the interests of monopolies. I appeal to government MPs not to burden ordinary people with increased prices of electricity, gas and heat and other chaos. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u9	Thank you, Mrs Havlová. With priority right, the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will now speak in the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u10	I would like to make a very brief statement on this. I would like to reiterate here that the negotiation of the Energy Act took place in a standard manner. Of course, the problem was that the method of combating the non-approval of the law was to make a large number of amendments, which we were trying to process all of them. We have also tried to comply with the amendments, where this was only possible. We have shown good will in that we have postponed the establishment of the ERU for some time actually until August 1, 2017, so that this law will gain a majority. It was an accident, which we discovered quite early, before the third reading. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved through parliamentary legislation as a legislative technical change. After some past experience, the strict interpretation of what legislative technical change is outweighed, which is why, unfortunately, I have to present it here in this form. [[17.50 hours]] I would also like to refer to the fact that in the future proposal the Council will be on the will of the Minister of Industry and Trade. I don't want to talk much about it here, but there is a Czech Telecommunications Authority that works on a similar principle, and there are no major problems with its independence. At the same time, I would like to use this entry to propose a reduction in the committee procedure for 30 days, so that this proposal can be made clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u11	Thank you, Minister. We are continuing the debate. Mr Karel Fiedler, after him Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u12	Good afternoon, or maybe a good evening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin my speech, I thought - note the perfectly empty bench behind me, where, apart from the present Minister and Writer, there is no one from the government, even in the benches of the government coalition, there is no glory. Amendment of Act No. 458/2000 Coll., which is an energy law that we have criticized here for almost a year and which has been effective since 1 January 2016, could undermine the independence of the Energy Regulatory Authority, which is the national regulator in the field of energy in the Czech Republic. What we have warned about is here, and now we are quickly solving the first and great fundamental mistake. Just a change in the system of collection of funds for the activities of the regulator, when this fee will now be set on the basis of the legal regulation, the Government's regulation, can mean that the ERÚ will de facto be hostages to finance this government. This will be very easy to change with regard to the simplified legislative procedure for its adoption. In this context, concerns arise as to whether the regulator will have sufficient funding for its activities as foreseen by the directives of the third liberalisation package. The amendment also assumes that the ERU should be managed by the collective body, the ERU Council, as of 1 August 2017. However, there have been changes in other legislation in this serious change in the legislative process, not since 1 August 2017, but since January 2016, which has just been heard from the Minister's mouth. This has a fundamental impact on the functioning of the regulator in the period between the introduction of the new law and the appointment of the ERU Council. On 12 May 2015, he himself admitted that there had been an omission of the concerted activities in all changes related to the amendment to Act No. 458. That is why, as party of the Dawn - National Coalition, we prepared our proposal for an amendment immediately after the signing of the law by the President, to which the government subsequently responded with delay with its amendment. It will be very interesting for me to see how much the government will ultimately want to really enforce it in connection with what we have already seen with the negotiation of this law. The fact that the ERU's leadership is to be subordinate to the civil service implies a number of conventions that may conflict with the requirements of the independence of the national regulator resulting from the third liberalisation package. Specifically, the President of the ERU will be subordinate to another service body, so-called Deputy Minister for Civil Service, which is to some extent a separate body, but functionally assigned to the Ministry of Interior, and therefore subordinate to the Minister of Interior. The President will thus be subject to another executive authority, which will not only have the power to evaluate the President's activities on the basis of a mandatory annual service evaluation, but will be able to influence his direct stay in office. The President of the ERÚ will also be responsible for the disciplinary commission set up by the Ministry of the Interior, and it is possible to impose an end to the President's service for disciplinary measures. It should be seen that any violation of service discipline may be considered to be a disciplinary offence, so it may also be, for example, an alleged breach of the obligation to observe the rules of decency or the obligation to comply with the rules of the ethics of a civil servant under the Staff Regulations. The said opens the space to influence the activities of the national regulator through another authority of executive power, in this case the Ministry of the Interior. At present, an adjustment was made to the possibility of appeal by the President, respectively. the termination of his mandate, sufficient to guarantee the independent performance of that function. Pursuant to the Energy Act, the office of the President shall expire on the expiry of the term of office, resignation of office, death or declaration of death, on the day on which the President took up office or began to carry out an activity incompatible with the office of the President, on the date on which the judgment of the Court of Justice on the limitation of legal capacity or judgment of the court to which he was convicted of an intentional offence or negligence of a criminal offence the facts of which relate to the exercise of a public office or removal from office. At the same time, the President of the Republic shall withdraw the President only if he has not exercised his office for more than 6 months or has seriously violated the independence or impartiality of the ERU. The limitation of independence can therefore be seen when the legislation is shifted so that the function of a superior service body in relation to the President of the ERU is entrusted to another authority of executive power. The independence of the EROs will thus be greatly disrupted. For other national regulators, e.g. telecommunications, competition, protection of personal data, there is no similar situation. The exemptions from the Civil Service Act will continue to apply to their management. The method newly chosen for the installation of the new managing authority is not in line with the requirement of independence of the regulator under the European Union directives. These directives require that the regulatory authority be independent of the government and other public authorities, which is Article 35 (2) of the Treaty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Newly chosen method of the already mentioned directive No. 2009/72 and 73, which was implemented into the legal system by an amendment to the Energy Act in 2011 and laid down as one of the key requirements for strengthening the lack of independence of regulatory authorities on government, the lack of freedom to make decisions that prevented effective regulation. The proposal thus contradicts this requirement of independence given by the two directives, but also denies the very provisions of Paragraph 17 (1). 3 of the Energy Act, which is a implementing provision. In this context it is also necessary to take into account the specific fact that the Czech Republic is the owner of 68 percent of shares in one of the largest energy companies, i.e. ČEZ, whose share in the energy market is very close to total dominance, and the Czech Republic is also 100% owner of ČEPS. The exercise of these rights is exercised by the Government of the Czech Republic through its ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is to be proposed by the SAO's managing body. [[18.00 hours]] The board of these decisive companies on the energy market must always act in their business decision-making with the care of a proper economy, like any other trading corporation, and therefore must be focused primarily on business efficiency and business profit. The same public authorities that are to exercise directly - which directly exercise ownership rights in two decisive energy companies are to have the whole process of designing and appointing the managing authority of the Energy Regulatory Authority entrusted with the power to supervise the energy market here. However, such a step by Directive 2009/72 and 73 is not required or foreseen. However, the fact that this is a political step with unclear factual justification may, as such, constitute some form of future threat to the interest of consumers, who always represent a weaker and logically vulnerable side in the energy market to regulate the ERO. So much for a little lawyering, and now for the matter. On 1 January 2016, there may be a situation where there will be a need for changes, to approve some directives, to prevent the tunneling of public money by means of subsidies for solar power plants or just to decide within the European Union some obligations of the Czech Republic in relation to its energy self-sufficiency and security, and there will be no one in the office who can negotiate it, who can sign any contract, because the statutory representative of the ERU will be missing. And this is a fundamental problem, why we are discussing another amendment of the law today so quickly after the adoption of the amendment, which solves these mistakes that took place recently, which we have been strongly on, in turn, several times, unfortunately pointing out in vain that the negotiation of the law that we have passed is a possible source, or may bring about possible errors, which we know has happened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u13	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. The last one so far registered in writing is Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u14	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. As Václav Klaus says, I told you. I am now talking about the fact that we have repeated several times here that the energy law of the pen by Minister Mládek and his colleagues is pasquil and it would be better not to accept it at all. Unfortunately, the truth has come true. It's here, and we have to talk about it again. The imperfections of the law were noted both in the House and in the Senate. However, it was not valid. This son of a bitch has passed, and today, unfortunately, we have to deal with the consequences. Our MP was doing everything we could to prevent these problems and troubles in some way. We've succeeded in something, unfortunately, something has failed. It would be good to see what is so interesting about the energy law for certain interest groups. It's money, of course. Renewables will cost us 45 billion a year. Crowns. This is therefore the largest grant title in the Czech Republic with a 20-year perspective. Controlled electricity prices are some 350 billion. CZK, gas pipelines are to be built for several tens of billions of crowns, but above all, an updated state energy concept has been implemented here, which has clearly said that nuclear power plants will arrive regardless of price, regardless of security, regardless of the European Union's energy policy. We have been assured for a year that we exaggerate, that there is no need to worry about the wallets of Czech citizens or about the energy security of the Czech Republic. Minister Mládek said that the law would not raise energy prices, even his head on a block, which was probably not entirely wise. A number of mistakes have already been made in the law. For example, our parliamentary club managed to prevent the subsidization advantage of solarians by another 35 billion. Crowns. The issue of material burdens on electric wires and gas connections had to be addressed, which would also cost tens of billions of crowns. Above all, however, we have pointed out many times at the seminars and during the discussions in front of the House's plenary that there is a risk of deboning the powers and capacity of the Energy Regulatory Authority. Indeed, it seems that a strong and independent Energy Regulatory Office is not appropriate for Minister Mládek. There's a need to enforce what happens to the completion of nuclear blocks. Unfortunately, this completion in hundreds of billions of crowns has to be paid, and an ideal scapegoat in this state is an ordinary consumer who cannot defend himself against this, so it is necessary to put this into prices. In addition, profits are falling for large-scale energy entrepreneurs because prices are falling on both the market and, above all, prices regulated, and this trend, although, of course, in quotation marks, needs to be reversed. It is necessary to find a way to get rid of the current ERO leadership. At first, the Ministry of Industry and Trade came up with the idea of the immediate establishment of the ERU Council, which would replace the current leadership of the Office, but after public protests, an adjustment was made that the Council would be established only from 2017, when the mandate of Ms Vitásková ends. This seemed to delay the acute danger, and perhaps the Council's powers would still be adjusted so that it could be independent of the government and can actually regulate. But even before the amendment jumped through the Senate, another fundamental mistake appeared in the quotation marks, which means that Minister Mládek succeeded and the ERO's leadership got rid of. In the transitional provisions of the Service Act, the sentence that the law does not apply to the President and Vice-Presidents of the Regulatory Authority was replaced by the sentence that it does not concern the ERU Council, which will be established in mid-2017. This means, therefore, that the President and the Vice-Presidents, unlike all other managers of similar institutions, will become civil servants on 1 January 2016. No one knows, and the Ministry has already admitted in the media how it would have actually been done in the case of the management of the EROs under the Service Act if this technical amendment had not been adopted. The specific procedure in this case, so I would very much like to ask the Minister. Other questions, of course. How the President and Vice-Presidents will be admitted to the service. This alleged legislative error means that the current leadership will end from 1 January next year and it is unclear who will be the year and a half, i.e. until August 2017, before the appointment of the new board, will be managed by the Authority. Whoever calls them off, under which provision. Will there be a tender and new people will be in charge of the office? How this will be presented to the European Union. I've been sending an interview, and I believe the Minister will answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u15	I thank Mr Marek Černoch, the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Mr. Secretary? Yes. Please, the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, I would just like to thank you for this debate. I'd like to ask you to move this material further. I would like to say that we have a problem with the operation of the service law in many other areas, because he has entered into force, as I would say, in full force, only since 1 July of this year. I would therefore like this small amendment to be passed, so that we do not have to deal with the problems raised by Mr Černoch here, because I think that this could be a big challenge for the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, because the functioning of the Service Act is far from settled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u17	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking the rapporteur's final words. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, this thing has more than an economic dimension also some public administrative dimension, and I think from this point of view it would probably be important for those responsible for the service law and the public administration to say their position on this, because this is a conflict with the service law. For this reason, I would suggest that the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development should also address this material, respectively. this committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, to comment on the conflict with the service law that is there. I think it belongs much more to them than to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u19	Okay, thank you. Am I to understand that this is a proposal for it to be a guarantee committee, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u20	No, I do not want to complicate this, but I will certainly suggest that the public administration discuss it as well, and that the economic committee address this issue only after the report it receives by a resolution from the Public Administration Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u21	Okay, thank you. I'll ask the rapporteur to check on me. In my view, in the debate, there was no proposal for a return or rejection. We can therefore vote on the commandments of the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The proposal to have an economic committee as a guarantee committee will be decided by the 70-order vote that I have just started, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 70, of the 121 Members present for 116, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose the commandments of the next committee. The rapporteur proposed the Committee on Public Administration in the debate. I'm asking who else has a suggestion. A colleague of mine, Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u22	We are proposing further consideration by the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u23	Yes. No one else is checking in. We will vote - oh, well, my colleague Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u24	I also propose a constitutional law committee because, in the service law, the constitutional law committee was a guarantee committee. The public administration can also comment on this, but the service law was dealt with mainly in the constitutional law committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-015-055.u25	Well, this motion has been dropped, Mr Fiedler has already said it. We will therefore vote on two other committees - the Public Administration Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee. First, the Public Administration Committee. I've begun the vote on order number 71 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 71, from 126 in favour of 82, against 13. The motion was accepted. Now in the 72-order vote that I have just begun, I ask who is in favour of being ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 72, from 128 in favour of 84, against 9. This proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal was further ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Committee on Constitutional Law. We will now vote on the deadline for discussion, because the Minister proposed a reduction in the deadline for discussion of 30 days in his speech in the debate. We will decide in the vote order number 73. I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the time limit. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 73 of 128 present for 89, against 9. This proposal has also been adopted. Recapitulate: the Committee of Guarantees will be an Economic Committee, the press will also discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Constitutional Committee and the time limit for committee discussions is reduced to 30 days according to Section 91. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister, who remains at the rapporteur's table, and I finish point 55. We will continue with item 21, but first I will state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. As of 18.15 apologies to Mrs Pavla Golasowská, Mr Ondřej Benešík and Mr Vojtěch Adam for health reasons. So now the announced point number
