ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u1	1. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the situation regarding the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice We interrupted the discussion of this point on Friday 22 December last year and the written material was distributed to you on the bench on the same day. I remind you that the Chamber of Deputies has agreed to the participation of Mayor Vlachovic-Vrbětic Mr Zdeněk Hověžák, which I welcome here among us, and also the first Deputy Governor of the Zlín Region, Mr Jaroslav Drozd, who will not attend today's meeting. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, then Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec and Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, spoke with the opening words. I ask that Mr Zdeněk Soukup, who spoke first in the debate, take the position of rapporteur instead of the rapporteur's desk. We will continue with the interrupted general debate, in which I record 5 applications. The first is Mr Snopek, next is Mr Hovorka. [[Response to the note from the hall:]] Well, in that case, I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I missed the lady with priority rights, so I'm gonna give her the floor first. Mrs Černochová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. We meet, as has been said -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u3	Before you make your contribution, I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down, so that we can hear what the honourable Member is saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u4	We meet exactly two months after the first emergency meeting. They've been gone for two months, so it's time to ask the government officials again what happened in those two months. And unfortunately, questions are still more than answers. With promises, as quickly as the ammunition goes, as everything is checked out, one single truck has left. It seems that those who warned about the fact that everything would last at least a year were right. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of the Interior what are the latest estimates of the time of removal of the ammunition at the moment. The government decided to restart the military ammunition warehouse in May a few months ago, with the idea that it would become some sort of IZS warehouse. All right, that's not a bad idea. But are you clear on who's gonna keep this for the army? I'd expect it to be the Home Office, and I hope it's not true information about you wanting the warehouse to continue to run by the military. This would be very unfortunate for many reasons, for example. because you want to place explosives that are property of private companies in the warehouse, and in a way you would transfer responsibility to the military. What about Květná, then? Who's gonna run it? Who will finance it, and what will be the next steps? The Chief of Staff at the meeting of the Defence Committee requested that the deployment of the army guarding the tape be as short as possible. Soldiers have been in the area for over two months. I'd like to ask the Secretary of Defense how long they're gonna be there. I assume that the ministers, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior, should already know the answer. You have spoken several times, Minister Chovanč, about investigating the circumstances of the explosion, the investigation of the explosives trading system. Can you please tell us, if possible, what police have investigated about the explosions and what deficiencies in the explosive system have been discovered by the control authorities and police? What are the consequences of this? I noticed that the government approved the amendment to Act No. 38/1994 Coll., on foreign trade in military material, in which the tightening of licensing policy is partly incorporated. In general, I would like to know what has come from the analysis of legislation, which you have certainly developed, and when we can expect some comprehensive information here in the House on what the government will do in the legislative area. On the defense committee, it was said that the governor of the county was to declare a state of emergency. I would therefore like to ask if you have checked the activities of the self-government and the integrated rescue system. If so, with what result. Have you found any white spots and what measures will your resort prepare in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u5	Thank you, Madame. Now Mr Snopek, Mr Hovorka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u6	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Your Honor. Three and a half months after the events and more than two months of delay in Parliament, a number of things have already been said. However, for statistics, I will give you some data. My colleagues monitor virtually all the information that Vrbětice is going through in the press, and I have this monitoring at my disposal. This is more than 1,500 pages of A4 text format. I don't want to evaluate the information here from a respectable point of view, the tabloids will definitely do that to others, but the attention here is enormous, but I don't think it's the main object of my performance. I want to focus on two circles of questions in my speech, or, if you like, I want to show some lessons from the situation in the first circle and in the second circle of questions I want to respond to the situation as Vrbětice responds to the situation of the Pardubický Region, which is affected from the point of view of the relocation of the military warehouse. The first heading of questions is the question of the legal regulation of the powers of public authorities in relation to the handling of ammunition by civil entities. This has been described a lot, but I think it is a pity that many shortcomings of larger or smaller ones are only beginning to be addressed after the events that occurred in Vrbětice in October. I do not want to speculate at all about it, or to say that such events would not have happened if the law had been applied and all its shortcomings had been removed. From the point of view of legislation on the section of weapons, ammunition and the handling of ammunition, explosives in general, I do not mean one law, there are a number of laws, regulations, decrees and especially with different gestures. Whether it is the Gesture of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Regional Development, but also the Czech Mining Office etc. In such an analysis, there is mainly a discrepancy in terms and approaches to the implementation of individual legislation. The result is a statement that thanks to the various gestures it escapes a substantial, comprehensive control, and refers to each other. I'm talking about individual ministries. It is also witnessed by a series of questions, answers from the Ministry of Defence, questions about the summary report of the Association for Healthy Valachia. If you read this report, you'll find that the Department of Defense has virtually nothing to do with it. The government has a comprehensive legal review of the analyses and it is now up to it how they will deal with it, how quickly they will discuss the necessary changes or submit necessary changes to our House. At this point, probably those who will monitor the negotiations of our House, especially the citizens of Vrbětice, will not be satisfied by the fact that we know from practically public sources that it will take more than a year in Vrbětice to clear the warehouse. However, I believe that the government is making every effort to ensure the safety of citizens in the surrounding municipalities. In connection with Vrbětice there are also some less appropriate statements. For example, they certainly do not contribute to a good mood among citizens of the guessing of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence regarding the security of Vrbětice. This is really just a matter of politicians, and I do not think that, through the media, the exchange of such information benefits at all the issue of the credibility of the military in the eyes of the public. So let me recap. The government knows what shortcomings are in the laws, what parallel things are there, counter-ordinary things, and what should be done on this section. I say it's a matter of the speed of submission, and most importantly, it will have an impact on the second question, and that is the transfer of the warehouse to the Pardubice Region. In the Pardubice Region, immediately after receiving information about the Government's resolution on leaving the premises of the Munitive Warehouse, Květná, owned by the Czech State, began to act actively. It's just damage that we knew about Květná from the media before we knew about the government. But information like this just happens sometimes. A number of measures have been taken, which are continuously controlled and mainly implemented. In particular, representatives of the Pardubice Region focused on discussing this situation with the citizens of adjacent municipalities. The self-management of the Pardubice Region is fully aware of its responsibility to its citizens and therefore actively wants to prevent possible exceptional events or crisis situations related to the operation and temporary storage of ammunition of private entities in the premises of the renewed ammunition warehouse in Květná. We act actively, but unfortunately, sometimes we think that even the speed of negotiations is not entirely flexible. If we take into account the Government's resolution on this issue, we have found that practically the premises of Květná have a prepared plan only until 31 December 2015. Thus, there is a time limit, and some other facts arise from this for our security counsel of the region. Above all, the Security Council of the Region would like to know another intention to use this area. As has already been said here, this is also another possible use within the IRS, as is apparent from the Government's resolution. But above all, we also have some things in mind that, of course, the Security Council has accepted. We had mainly an analysis of individual events, we had an analysis of the problem from a legal point of view, and it is no wonder that the Security Council of the Region recommended a number of relatively hard and demanding measures so that the area could be operated and, above all, that citizens would accept this change. The Regional Security Council also has some other issues that are not properly addressed. First of all, it is a question of clarifying the long-term duration of this ammunition warehouse, and therefore the Security Council also addressed the Minister of the Environment with a request for an opinion on whether the operation of ammunition warehouses in May during the temporary storage of ammunition of private buildings, whether or not the transitional provisions of Act No. 59/2000 Sb., on the prevention of major accidents. And, of course, as amended. Unfortunately, we do not yet have this answer, but it has a link to the adoption of further measures and plans from the point of view of protection. This is related to another question which is not clarified, and it will certainly be mentioned whether these objects have been colonized, what volume of ammunition, storage, etc. We don't have these things. We are in the Pardubice Region of the opinion that, in view of the state guaranteed safety of the ammunition warehouse in Květná not only against the region but also the surrounding municipalities, individual private buildings should not be the owners of ammunition. So, better said, we would like this warehouse to be operated in the future by an army that can do it better, safer and better. We will certainly follow these things and ask for a clear and quick answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Ludvík Hovorka and Mr Antonín Seďa will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have dealt with this case, and I have also been present at the meeting of the Committee on Petitions, and I have found that in my opinion the State has failed at least on these matters: One. Granting licences for the handling of military material. Two. Control of compliance with the conditions laid down in these licences. Three. Checking compliance with the conditions laid down in the lease agreements. Four. Demanding up-to-date overview of the quantity and nature of the stored ammunition. Five. In the performance of state building supervision in the authorisation of the production operation of the recycling of rocket fuel by concealing essential facts. Six. In carrying out the management of the property, because for unknown reasons the State authorised the transfer of assets of several large plots under some buildings to one tenant of these objects. [[He's talking with a cold voice.]] In this context, I would like to ask some questions to the defence and interior ministers. One. Who will be the manager of the Vrbětice complex and what will be his next destiny? Is it expected that this site will remain under the administration of the Military Technical Institute, or will it be managed by the State in general? Or is it supposed to be privatization or transfer to municipalities? Because this issue has also been discussed in the past and, as far as I know, this offer has been made provisionally. Two. Furthermore, please explain why the State has allowed the transfer of some land to the private company Excalibur and what the government will now do about it. It is not small land, and I would like to know, if this is an important property for the defense of the state, how will the government build on it, that several buildings in this area are actually transferred to the property of a private company. Three. How is it possible that during the construction procedure for authorising the test operation of the recycling of rocket fuel, the fact that ammunition has been and has been stored to a considerable extent in the immediate vicinity of the production site? These facts, I say, have been withheld. So, in my opinion, this building permit was unlawfully issued. Four. Will the state cancel the construction permit for the test operation of the recycling of rocket fuel? Five. Where will the recycling operation of rocket fuel be relocated from the facility? Those are my questions. Now, let me make a comment. I would like to stress that discussions may not yet be deliberately discussed about all the companies operating on the premises. In 2010, the citizens of Vrbětic wrote a petition against the construction of a rocket fuel recycling plant in the ammunition area, because the municipality of Vlachovice-Vrbětice was not informed of this intention in time and in detail. Although the council objected to the construction of the said plant, the municipality's objections were not taken into account. At present, the Bochemie plant is only mentioned in connection with possible damage due to forced outage of production. When discussing the need to remove ammunition, I would point out that it is necessary to take into account not only the ammunition itself, but also all the hazardous substances that are or were part of the ammunition, i.e. ammonium chlorate and rocket fuel into the former ammunition storage facility for recycling. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, due to security, communication from Lipová, which is very important to local citizens, has been closed and, as a result, significant costs are incurred in forced detours. Neither will people get into their woods because the entire area of the warehouse is full of unexploded ammunition after the warehouse explosion. These facts are not much to be said and remain on the brink of the media's interest. On the other hand, however, the company that has its headquarters in Holland - its particular owner is classified or not known - tirelessly and very strongly points out that ending the production of rocket fuel recycling would be an evil signal for our NATO partners and that it suffered a significant loss. Local people living in a poor region suffered property damage as well as psychological traumas. From a citizen's point of view, however, it is not possible to measure double standards. Local people may not be able to quantify billions as much as Bochemie, which has no relation to the region and only has its business intentions. But people from affected communities deserve decent and equal treatment. Hundreds of soldiers around the ammunition warehouse are certainly not just because of the wishes of local residents, although some military officials and some politicians are trying to explain it. It is true that people feel safer now, but the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior seem to know why they guard this area so closely. It is clear that the interested parties for the authorisation of recycling of ammonium chlorate from rocket fuel were not acting openly. They deliberately mitigated the potential danger of the production process and never explained why they chose this very traffically absolutely disadvantageous location, when their production process, in their view, is completely safe and does not pose any risk to citizens and the environment. It is highly desirable for representatives of Bochemie to tell who is the real owner of the company and what financial benefit is the recycling of rocket fuel in Vrbětice for our state and why the company has repeatedly not reported in its safety reports that ammunition is stored to a large extent in the immediate vicinity of the production facilities, because it is then a significant combination of risks. So far, ammunition is being dealt with all the time, but now it's likely to become the number one production plant of Bochemie. Apparently the company hopes to fully restore its operation and will point to the impossibility of fulfilling the contract for the German army. Unfortunately, it is trivial that our state, which very consistently controls and fines its citizens if it does not carry used auto-pharmacies in its cars, does not control ammunition warehouses of private persons, which have become an instrument of general threat to thousands of people. To make matters worse, the state will allow a unique and potentially dangerous technology in an area packed with ammunition to a company with an unknown owner who has its registered office in Holland, while the circumstances of the stored ammunition in the immediate vicinity of the production facility in the construction process will tactfully remain silent. The ammunition complex in Vrbětice is now only partly state property, because several significant large plots have been transferred to a private company. The local authorities and the Zlín Region could not significantly influence the operation of the premises. Everything that has happened here in this territory has been directed from the beginning and fully by state-controlled entities and institutions, including all private companies' business on the premises. The explosion of the ammunition warehouse that he was killing was created by utter oblivion of safety regulations and standards. It should be noted here that, for example, local authorities cannot afford something similar in relation to compliance with laws and regulations. In the present case, the State has failed and must therefore remedy this failure. [[19.40 hours]] The local people knew that the army no longer operates in the willow area, while firmly trusting the state to properly care for their safety and also to properly manage its property. The summary report submitted in the form of a petition to the Committee on Petitions of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic pointed out serious errors in the state. The ministry concerned did not exercise its supervision properly and did not prevent non-compliance and total ignorance of safety regulations and standards. As a result of this, an unbearable accumulation of risks which so directly threatens the lives and possessions of local citizens. [[Coughing]] I recommend to the government, on behalf of the state, that it acknowledge its responsibility and actively contribute, in the spirit of what I say here, to restoring the trust of local citizens in the state institution. I appreciate the personal bravery and commitment of local citizens who have come between us and the Committee on Petitions to present their report. [[The speaker speaks with great effort with a hoarse voice.]] Each of you had the opportunity to see with your own eyes that their arguments would be heard and respected by the Chamber of Deputies and the State. And for all the reasons that I have put forward here, I would like to propose this resolution: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure 1. removal of all hazardous materials, ammunition, ammonium chlorate and rocket fuel from the ammunition storage area in Vrbětice; 2. appoint a government agent to supervise the safe transport of all dangerous materials from the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice; 3. ensure the examination of the specific liability of legal and natural persons for the errors that led to the explosions of stored ammunition and ensure the recovery of the costs of the intervention of security forces and the removal of dangerous material from responsible companies; 4. ensure the examination of the failure of the military construction office when issuing a building permit for the testing operation of the rocket fuel recycling plant in the area in the immediate vicinity of a warehouse with a large amount of ammunition; 5. put forward systemic corrective legislative measures to grant licences for the handling of military material and ammunition, to ensure proper national supervision and effective control; 6. ensure a comprehensive inventory of one-off damage to the property of natural and legal persons affected by the effects of the explosions of the ammunition warehouse and a proper record of all restrictions on economic activity in closed areas for the purpose of determining the amount of damage to the citizens of the affected municipalities; 7. ensure payment of one-off compensation for mental suffering and damage to property of natural persons affected by the direct consequences of the explosion of the ammunition warehouse. On the last two proposals, I would just like to say that you certainly have in mind the case of the bridge crash in Studénka, when no concrete liability for the accident has been established to date, which means that even commercial insurance companies have not yet paid any compensation. I suppose there might be a similar situation, and that is why it should be facing people's compensation, because if it is only on commercial insurance companies, commercial insurance companies will probably not provide anything to these citizens to investigate the whole case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. A note came to me. As of 19.30, Mrs Zelienková apologizes for reasons of work. I note one point of fact, which Mr Benešík has, and after which Mr Seďa is duly enrolled in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to downplay this, but I have the impression - and this is not the subject of my factual point - that if Vice-President Jermanová had not enforced a ban on the serving of alcoholic beverages in restaurant facilities, for example, Mr Hovorka, for example, could essentially disinfect it with a shot and its contribution would have been of far higher quality. But that's just to the edge. I wanted to ask - Mr Hovorka mentioned this, but he did not ask - whether it is intended to compensate the citizens of the municipalities concerned precisely for the closure of certain local roads, because they actually objectively have increased costs for, for example, transport to employment. And also one last comment on Bochemia. I am really starting to think that the production process will probably not be as smooth as it is normally declared, because why a company with international reach and scope is absolutely unique, so according to it, it performs a safe chemical or physical process of production in the Wallachian forests, far from civilization, only with a few smaller villages nearby. Seems a little like that joke that was once said to me about Dukovan apples. When asked whether they are safe, the authorities answered that they are absolutely safe and safe, only after consumption you have to bury an apple five meters into the ground.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Seďa has the floor now. Mr. Holík will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, Mr Mayor, fellow Members, it will be two months in two days when we launched this item, and many speakers have already said many and various questions have been raised. I want to say that a summary report by the Ministry of the Interior on the procedure of dealing with an emergency in the Vrbětice ammunition warehouse of 12. The 12th time we started discussing this, she answered many of the questions. But there was probably little time for colleagues and colleagues to read the report. The Security Committee and the Defence Committee also addressed this issue, the Defence Committee on my proposal on 7 January. I think the important question that's always here is who's to blame. And now I don't want to evaluate what the law enforcement authorities are saving, which means a fire in Ammo Warehouse 16 and an explosion in Ammo Warehouse 12. This is indeed a matter for law enforcement authorities. I'll try a short historical excursion. Maybe he'll give you an answer to this basic question. So, the brief history. 2006. Right to manage the premises of the former ammunition warehouse of the Military Repair Company 026 Šternberk, division Research Technical Institute of Armament and ammunition Slavičín. This means transferring with the right to manage. The reason was to find suitable premises for the so-called ecological disposal of ammunition and missiles. The real reason was, however, the efforts of the then Ministry of Defence management to prepare the conditions for the creation of an entity capable of addressing on a private basis the project of extra-voy logistics ammunition, i.e. if you want outsourcing services related to the purchase, storage, repair, testing and supply of ammunition to the Army of the Czech Republic, on a private basis. A workplace for the ecological disposal of ammunition, missiles and the production of ammunition was gradually built in the ammunition complex. For your information, the funds from this production of the ammunition division of the research institute in Slavičín amounted to CZK 200 to 250 million a year at that time. [[19.50 hours]] Since 2008, this activity has been restricted and leases of the storage capacity of this ammunition complex and external entities have gradually started to take place. Very negative in the process of the business activities of the ammunition division in this ammunition warehouse or ammunition complex, including the maintenance of the essential functions of the ammunition complex, has been reflected in the continuous transition of the company to other organisations since 2010. I will recall the merger of VOP 026, VOP 025, the transition from the divisional arrangement to procedural management, the arrangement into the form of split plants in 2012 and the subsequent transformation into the new state enterprise Research Technical Institute on 1 January 2013. At the time, I had already consulted and wrote letters against these organizational changes, because I was sure that it would not do any good. However, after delaying the project of extravoy logistics of ammunition, it was necessary to find new solutions with the area and new application. It has already been mentioned here that, for example, it was created together with the private company Bochemie project derecycling rocket fuel. At the same time as this project, increased rental of the storage capacity of this ammunition complex was carried out in 2011, especially by private operators. The great lack of this process was the fact that the rental of ammunition warehouses between 2010 and 2012 was realized and covered by the management of a military repair company which had little experience with legislation related to the specification of ammunition warehouses. It was simply not a priority to ensure the complex functionality of this complex and individual ammunition warehouses and its maintenance, but to give priority to investment in the development of the Štemberk and Nový Jičín sites. The situation was not improved either by the transfer of the branch plant to the VTÚ, the state enterprise, when the economic activity and the red numbers in the company's management fell. There was probably also underestimating verification and verification of the functionality of warehouses according to applicable legislation. Nor was it ever invested in a security facility, which, as is now publicly known, is secured or has been secured by only two security workers. Nevertheless, there are still, and there have been several variants of analyses and variants of revitalization and repairs in this ammunition complex, but they have never been implemented. So short a historical tour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Holík is now duly enrolled in the debate and Mr Fiedler will be prepared after that. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'm gonna say much new here because my previous speakers were quite appropriate. These reports will be supplemented only by the information I received today from the chief of the group, which removes the explosions. So there's now a gradual shipment of ammunition, loading, unloading, a group of Saturdays, Sundays. Transport technology has been purchased, I mean roller coasters, I mean transporters, to empty this area as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, it's snow. But at the moment it melts down, all forces will be cast to clear the area around the road between Haluzice and Lipová. It is a road that is closed, and locals, for example, from Haluzic to Lipová, have to drive a radius of 16 kilometers. It is, of course, a place that is greatly troubled by local citizens. Next thing. Directly on the premises was built a tearing pit, where small ammunition is removed, which cannot be carried further because it went through the seismic wave of past explosions. The larger ammo continues to venture into the area of the Libá military retreat. At present there is also a meeting with the company Bochemie, which has serious comments on the railway transport site, which is about half a kilometer from their production plants. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, Members don't listen.]] I'll wait a little while for you to get your... Okay. Of course, it is strange that the company Bochemie here threatens the state with a payment of up to one billion for the loss of trade. For exporting these unfortunate ammunition around their productions. What's interesting is that they didn't mind when she was picking on herself and when there was a business there for three years. Of course, I would also like to know about the representatives of our government, how the compensation will take place, because those people who live there, who cannot reach their fields or other places, their forests, so it is quite a great loss for them. And while I'm on this block of questions, I have one more. I am rather surprised by Mr Ondruš's statement, which is the lawyer of Imex Group, who exploded both warehouses and who claims to require financial compensation from the state as well. I don't know what for. So I'd like our government officials to look into this company very well. Also to look at KEDROS, HABR trade, I.S. Moravia. These are all the names of the Imex Group in the past. I'm gonna go back a little bit to the last petition committee that went through here, and the complaints of one of the National Defense Department workers who said, you know, we couldn't control those warehouses, we didn't have a chance. I said to him at the time, "Please. He said we couldn't because it was a private object. So the CHOI can check every hypermarket to see if there's moldy sausage or bad rolls, but of course we can't control the ammunition. So the rolls are probably more dangerous than the ammo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u15	I thank Mr Holík. Another duly registered member is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u16	Good evening, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Good evening again, ladies and gentlemen. I would follow up on a colleague of Jaroslav Holík, who has given some brief information about how the petition of Vrbětic citizens on the petition committee was discussed. And that's where I think the negotiation had its level and its weight. I would like to repeat here what I said at the press conference, what was said on the petition committee and what was said here on the House floor, and how the petenti themselves evaluated the information, the answers they received on the petition committee. One of the petents said that they were not satisfied with the answers and, on the contrary, they were even more concerned. Which I think is probably very striking. I would also like to take advantage of the fact that he is here, so the Minister of Defence is no longer here, he was sitting here a while ago, but he does not sit here anymore, as the Vice-President from the back suggests, when the Committee invited both ministers, both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence, to discuss this petition in the petition committee and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, required their personal participation. [[He's turning on the Home Secretary, he's not sitting there right now.]] [[20.00 hours]] The answer came from Minister Chovanec, even though we required personal participation. But I'm able to understand that he already had a program planned, although I think he might have taken part in the petition committee after he finished. But from Minister Stropnický petition committee, he didn't get an answer or an apology. [[by mistake told by the Chovanec]] And if I have information from the petition committee, two days before this petition was discussed, there was no message from the Ministry of Defense, if anyone attends, we can forget about the apology. So the minister just came in, but he probably didn't hear my words. [[Minister Stropnický enters the hall and brings a cup with a drink he points to.]] What was said on the petition committee is what surprised me very much from the parties of the representatives of both ministries, some cynically or more sarcastically made me laugh - that the state does not have the right to control the contents of the crates, as the representatives of both, i.e. one of the ministries were told. If what they say they're storing is really there. If the expiration dates aren't expired, if the ammunition that's in the crates is really the one that's supposed to be there, if it's not different. Well, that's great! So we're gonna control the businessmen, see if they have expired yogurt, we're gonna fine them on the spot, and the companies that show millions and billions of profits, so we're not gonna control them or have the tools to control them when dealing with dangerous business material like ammunition? Well, that's really desperate, incomprehensible, I'd say literally awful. What the petents point to - I think it has already been said here from my colleague Hovorka and from my previous speakers. They've been pointing to the problem of Bochemie, who's been kind of a bit of a mess. I referred to this aspect at a press conference, when Czech Television broadcasted it beautifully so that the press spokesperson Bochemia responded to it, and I was no longer able to respond to it, even in the evening Events, comments. Well, it doesn't surprise you that much from Czech TV. When the Ministry of Defence sent a reply in recent days to the questions of petents, I read from this that one of the leases that is on the premises, it is a lease agreement number 113 and concerns the company Imex Group, it is from 2007, if I remember correctly, its validity has been valid since October 2007. Other leases are, as stated in the material, since 2011. If the Imex Group lease was in force since 2007, which allowed them to store ammunition and ammunition, then apparently the ammunition material has been stored there since 2007, and, as the Vlachovic and Vlkvetic citizens claim, the material was there at a time of great probability - this lease agreement proves - when the Bochemia company's permit for the recycling of rocket fuel was issued. When this permit was issued, in the materials that I had the opportunity to look into so far, it was merely said that it was a former ammunition site. So, as an ex-boyfriend, I also imagine it's empty. But when a company was storing ammo under a lease contract since 2007, I think - I don't know if it was wrong, but I don't think it was - that the material was stored there at the time Bochemie was granted permission. After all, Professor Danihelka also gave this opinion at a meeting held by the village of Vlachovice in the cultural house. I took part in it, too. And he expressed the view that there was a multiple error in the granting of this permit. I'm stressing that I'm not saying my opinion here that I'm not asserting my opinion here. I'm saying that I'm commenting here or interpreting an expert's statement dealing with this issue. So I would have a question - it probably concerns the Ministry of the Interior, because the regional authorities fall under the Ministry of the Interior. So what was the issue of a warrant for Bochemie? At the time the permit was issued, was it considered that ammunition was stored there, or was it not taken into account? After all, as was said at the meeting that I mentioned, in those Vrbětice by profesor Danihelka, after five years, there is an update of the security report, and even in the original one it was not mentioned that ammunition was stored there at the same time as the recycling of the rocket fuel. But even in the 2014 update, the company Bochemie doesn't say that ammunition is stored there, which is clearly what happened. And so I would like to know the answer from the proper authorities and the Ministry of the Interior, as was the issue of the permit. Was that okay? It wasn't okay. Speaking of Bochemie, as my colleagues mentioned here. The company is expressing itself as demanding a billion-dollar compensation. I just hope that this company's tax contributions are adequate to what compensation it wants to demand that it also pays us taxes that are sufficiently high in our state budget, when it states such huge leaks. I don't know. I'm saying I'm really interested in this. The fact that the company's ownership structure is somewhere in Holland and that it is unsearchable has also been said several times. And so it's strange that we're supposed to pay, or maybe some compensation from someone we don't actually know who it belongs to will be required of the state. A few days ago, on a television show by Minister Stropnický, I heard a third variant that I really don't know how to stand up to. Did I always say it was a private object, or was it a military object? I know the ministers here have been arguing for a while whether it's military or private. And I overheard the last version that it was a paramilitary object. I really don't know what to think about that anymore. It has already been said by the Minister of the Interior that he identifies with the view that legislation should be adapted. And I really hope that legislation will be adapted and that such dangerous material as ammunition will be treated so that the state will literally have absolute control over it. I will read the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate, just as I will convey the resolution of the Committee on Petitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u17	I thank Mr Fiedler. Now with priority rights Mr. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u18	[[He comes with a smile.]] Thank you, Mr President. I have to share an interesting experience with you. I thought that when the representatives of the Chamber of Deputies asked questions they wanted to answer. But now I understand from the expression of some of them that perhaps not. But we'll see. [[Member Fiedler, perhaps others who are not visible, suggests that he is interested.]] Really? That's great. [[With a smile.]] Ladies and gentlemen, many questions have been asked here, many have been repeated. I can only respond to the fact that the Ministry of the Interior is in charge of regional authorities. The company Bochemie obtained the relevant building permit by means of the standard transfer of state administration, placed its investment in the Czech Republic, drew a subsidy on this investment. It has its production contracted, both on the sales side and on the material supply side. And it is true that he even has contracts with some NATO Member States to re-create rocket fuel. According to the information I obtained, Bochemie's products should not be explosive, they should be flammable. Whether, when granting a building permit, the construction office, i.e. a specialized construction office, in this case a military construction office, I suspect in Olomouc, had information that there was a functional ammunition warehouse next to it, I don't know, but it is subject to police investigation. And it'll be very interesting if this police investigation proves that the information has been withheld, then we'll have to ask who and why. [[20.10 hours]] As far as moving forward in the investigation is concerned, it's a standard open-minded living thing under the authority of the state's attorney, and even though many think so, the Home Secretary doesn't have a chance to look into these things. That means it's in the investigation. I only asked the cops if there was a shift, they told me that there was a shift and that they assumed that some major events would occur sometime over the next two months, but that's all I know about it at the moment. There was an analysis of the Czech Republic's legislation on the government, and I think it is nothing secret, which means with your consent I would send this analysis to all Members of Parliament to look at it, and by the middle of this year I have the task of preparing proposals for amendments to the legislation together with other departments concerned. This is primarily the Ministry of Defence, but also the Ministry of Industry and Trade, because exports of arms and, let's say, the Mining Authority, which controls explosives, are in the gesture of this very Ministry. Whether or not hetmanship should declare a state of danger, the Police of the Czech Republic at the time of the discussion in the context of the crisis state gave the good news that they do not think it is necessary, and I have no reason to change anything since then. So far, the ongoing investigation has brought nothing like this. I would ask the honourable Members very much to base less on information from the press on certain matters. I myself am unable to say today how long the removal of this facility will take, and estimates that it will be a year, a year and a half, came out of the mouth of an attorney of one of the companies, who at the beginning pushed so hard to get into its premises as soon as possible, that it has the goods loaded and needs to be weighed, and the same attorney, when we started discussing the export schedule, began to tell something about how it would take a year and a half. We have currently taken ten trucks, part of which is the products of the company Bochemie, part of which is already our own ammunition, mostly rockets that go to Slovakia to the final customer of one of the companies. About the warehouse in May. The warehouse in May is currently ready from three quarters to take over ammunition, three quarters of capacity, but it will be enough. This is not about not being fully prepared, there is a capacity prepared that is sufficient to stock the material that companies will require. The problem is one: companies have changed the demands over time. This means, at the beginning there was almost a very small need to transfer material, it was announced by one company, according to my latest information currently the premises in Květná would like to use the companies three. At present, the Department of Defence is negotiating with these companies on the conclusion of the respective lease agreements. The negotiations are not going well because there is no agreement on the extent of the performance, which means the amount of the rent. If the companies do not agree with the Department of Defence, which, from my point of view, acts as a proper caretaker, there is a variant prepared that we would transfer this material to Květná in the so-called. A forced regime where the cost is borne by the State for a period of several months, until we agree with the companies. We're not gonna have the companies block it, and we're not gonna get blackmailed into some reduced rent. That means, I suppose, that defense colleagues have this process firmly in their hands. If the standard market rent could not be agreed, then there is also the option I was talking about. Another thing to talk about is what the consequences will be. Let's leave them to law enforcement. I think that the defence department should draw its own conclusions, but this will certainly be discussed by colleague Stropnický on the part of the management of the institute concerned. Back to Bochem. Bochemie, given that he has contracts concluded, and given that there may be some arbitration against the Czech Republic, I would be very cautious in the statements towards this company because I do not want to record it in any dispute with the Czech Republic. We are in a situation where the company Bochemie is not part of the Vrbětic complex, she only stores part of its products in the area, part of its stocks, but its own production plant is outside the area. On the other hand, there is a gas pipeline through this area, and it is impossible to let the gas into the premises of Bochemie before the bomb squad inspects the entire route and says it's safe. This means that we would very much like to put as little as possible obstacles to Bochemie's production, but it is simply not possible to do so until it is clearly proven that the process is simply safe. So that is the main reason today why the Police of the Czech Republic and the intervention commander do not want to release the gas that Bochemie needs to produce. The area in May, if it should remain an army, as one honourable colleague or the Ministry of the Interior spoke here - we are at the beginning of the debate. We need one building in the whole area of May as the police, while some ammunition, which will be subject to criminal proceedings, means, it will be some ammunition confiscated, or there may be some ammunition, which will then be disposed of in some future horizon, but that is very unlikely. The Ministry of the Interior owns enough of its own buildings and certainly does not have ambition if it is not in the interest of the state, and it is not yet detected or described, to operate such a complex. According to our estimates, the costs would be in the order of tens of millions of crowns per year in operation. Only and only. We talked about this issue with the mayors of the affected municipalities, we talked about the possibilities of what to do with the complex, we also discussed whether it was possible for the municipality to show interest in, let's say, transfer to their property. So far, the discussion with them has been negative. As in Vrbětice the Prime Minister promised the municipalities concerned that they could take over the premises in their administration, in May, at least in the discussions that I was at, there is simply no interest. I can't promise here that the Home Office will take over another complex for which it simply doesn't have any use. It is possible that after the premises in Květná serve for a temporary period for storage of ammunition from Vrbětic, it will be re-evaluated as a necessary property of the Czech Republic and will be sold or offered to the regional authority or municipalities in its vicinity. That means, I can't confirm the option of exporting a year, a year and a half, we're doing everything we can to make it go fast. There's currently a checkup, over 30 specialists have been deployed there, it's the biggest check in the history of the police, at least the modern one. I can say that we will export the material as quickly as possible, but safely. And most importantly, we want to see if there's anything in those warehouses that's never supposed to be there. The army's security also proved very well. There's a question of how long he'll be there. I say again, as long as it takes. This is decided by the Government of the Czech Republic. Not even the Home Secretary, not the Secretary of Defense. My colleague Stropnický and I are supposed to present a position report once a month on whether or not there is a need for an army. That's what we're going to agree with the intervention commander of both departments, but the security of the premises was primarily to avoid a reasonable concern that someone from the outside would enter and that another object would just explode. That's the main purpose. I would also like to turn against the words of one of the previous speakers through Mr President, unfortunately I am unable to identify on behalf of Mr Stropnický that perhaps my colleague and I should have argued about whether or not security is necessary. I want to say clearly that my colleague Stropnický and I have always had the same opinion on this matter, and the only person we argued with was the Chief of Staff. I am very sorry to hear these arguments, I must say, I say this on this soil too, because they were completely unnecessary. I think that although the Army of the Czech Republic is fulfilling its obligations in the context of foreign missions, the primary is help to the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. I don't want to be the mayor's best man here, but I think the military has been very, very, very much improved by the deployment of the situation and the psychic in this area. So that's what you've been asking, colleagues and colleagues, for the time being.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u19	Thank you, Home Secretary. Now I have two factual points. First, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u20	I thank Minister Chovanc for his comprehensive answer, but I must say that the conclusion concerning Květná really frightens me. It frightens me because once again and at this time, as the Minister said, not one truck was transported there, but ten trucks of something and to this day it is not clear whether it will fall under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence or under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. Colleagues and colleagues, does that remind you of anything? Can't the situation of Vrbětice repeat in May? I cannot imagine how Minister chovanec now imagines cooperation. Will a soldier of the Army of the Czech Republic stand with a police officer who will have one box of ammunition as evidence, so that soldier of the Army of the Czech Republic will see to it that he can look in the box? How can an army be held responsible for something that's in boxes when they don't even know it! Here, Minister Chovanč, you renounce the responsibility you clearly have as Home Secretary! You have it within the police, you have it within the Fire Rescue Corps and the entire IRS. Do not throw your responsibility at the Army of the Czech Republic!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u21	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Excuse me, Minister. First of all, Mr Fiedler's point of view. Then it's your turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would still respond to what was said here by Minister Chovanec when he mentioned the military deployment. I don't have a problem with that. I agree, of course, that the army should be deployed there. I certainly believe that it has very calmed the situation of citizens and that the situation has calmed down. But I'm pondering what was mentioned here, some contradictions with Army General Pavel about the amount of soldiers, because by a certain date there were soldiers there were zero and then we probably overreacted a little bit, I don't know, I don't want to judge it, because General Pavel expressed that the amount was completely unnecessary. I don't know if there's 400 or 500 there today or how many. There's been talk of these numbers, maybe the real numbers are lower. But I'm startled by the leap that at first the army wasn't needed there for a long time, and then we suddenly realized that we needed so many soldiers there. I don't have a problem with the military deployment, I agree. I'm just wondering if there wasn't a need for that long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u23	I thank Mr Fiedler. First of all, the Minister of the Interior, after him, the Minister of Defence. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologise through the President to Mrs Černochová, because I am obviously speaking incomprehensiblely. I'm gonna do it again. No ammunition is currently being transported on the premises in Květná. From the premises in Vrbětice, Bochemie's products were transported to its final consumer. As I was saying, from the premises in Vrbětice, ammunition was currently being transported towards the final consumer in Slovakia. I also said, Madam President, that the military is currently preparing lease agreements with companies that have shown interest in this area. Since leases are being prepared, therefore, they do not exist at present, nothing can be stored in the premises of the companies. I also said that military colleagues behave like proper farmers and, until they conclude contracts, it is not possible to transport any ammunition into this area. I also said that if this failed, we are prepared for the possibility in the law of some kind of confiscation and transfer of this material under police supervision to May for a limited period of time, that we will not let the companies, due to the agreement on the amount of the rent, block the transfer of ammunition from Vrbětice. I've said all this before, but I guess I wasn't clear. I'm not stopping the police from checking in. She's got that by the law. Police control ammo from the law. There's a register of weapons and ammunition, and what's in this register is under police control. Besides, when you take a grenade or an air bomb, you spill the explosive, so maybe there's a gap in the law that can already meet the nature of the explosive, and then it's controlled by the Mining Authority. But don't ask me to have the Police of the Czech Republic, or the Ministry of the Interior take over the premises that it doesn't need free of charge, and invest 50 million in it on an annual basis. That's what I'm defending. I don't get rid of the responsibility for controlling ammo. And the government decided, I believe, at its second-to-last meeting to raise 202 tables for the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps. And these are primarily police and fireplaces to control ammunition and ammunition. So I apologize for being incomprehensible. I'll try harder next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u25	Thank you, Home Secretary. Now with priority rights, the Minister of Defence. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that sarcasm thrives even after 20 o'clock in the evening, although rather than solving questions, it may bring a partial sense of personal satisfaction. I'd like to say a few specifics. Maybe a paramilitary facility -- that certainly didn't work out. There were so many inaccuracies about it in weeks and months that apparently there was some kind of mischief. I never said anything like that. As for the number of soldiers or the participation of soldiers at all. Of course, in such a situation, and remember when it was, after the explosion of the second ammunition warehouse, it was evident that it was necessary to do the best to secure the entire area. In a situation like this, I don't think you should speculate or think long enough about what the military has or doesn't have, and it just has to do it. And it's best if the same army doesn't comment too much. But, of course, it complicates the program a little bit, as the soldiers have it. I also asked the commander of the ground forces. It's, let's just say, more organized than that, but it's not impossible. At the same time I will certainly be glad, the army will be glad when the number will gradually decrease. Of course, this depends on many factors. In this respect, we will be happy to participate ourselves when the outer area of the premises is possible - and a plan is being drawn up if I have heard the intervention commander so that the outer space can be decontaminated so that the fence can be repaired, and therefore, somehow, the number would be gradually reduced. As far as the Military Technical Institute and its subsidiary Slavicín are concerned, those people who led these two businesses are no longer in charge, even though they have not been shown direct blame or direct interest at the moment. But for reasons I don't want to discuss in detail, they don't work in their places anymore. As for May, we have done our utmost in this regard. Technically, it's ready, but otherwise I'd repeat what Minister Chovanec has already said. Of course, we're trying to make sure the meter isn't free, pardon me. And, of course, we're also counting on the fact that, for, say, a contract, we're not going to block the transfer of material. No way. The only thing that needs to be said, but that does not burn with the public's pardon, we must calmly say, and as the colleague also said, within the whole government, how to deal with Květná for the future. Opinions are different, but I think that's not so important at the moment. The important thing is that Květná is able to solve the situation and absorb the ammunition. Whether the state decides to have one of its energy stores, which will be very high-quality at the top level secured at the cost of certain small costs or not, is a question to discuss in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u27	Thank you, Minister Stropnický. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u28	I would like to ask Minister Stropnický for a more specific answer. When will the number of soldiers be specified? Will it be the month of February, the month of March? The question is, of course, whether some of the other boxes will be moved from Vrbětice to May. That, of course, is the question that is offered. I might also ask Minister Chovanec because he speaks a language I really don't understand. And we agreed with a fellow Zahradník that even a fellow Zahradník doesn't understand him. Who is the final consumer of ammunition?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u29	Mr. Home Secretary wants an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, the final consumer of ammunition is the company that will redo it. That means, buy, rework, disassemble, sell iron scrap, sell the explosive and have some kind of yield. I didn't think - and here I was wrong - that the final consumer might also be a participant in a war conflict. So in this case it really is a company that ecologically, I hope, will dismantle it and sell it to the salesable parts as permitted by Slovak legislation. Those soldiers, my colleague through Mr President - their need will be evaluated every month, we will put a position report into government every month. And it may be that the government will reduce the mandate. That it would reduce the number of soldiers. We agreed that some soldiers, because we understand that military deployment is expensive, could gradually be replaced by an electronic signal, could be replaced by technical security that would replace living power in some sections. By living power, I mean soldiers, to be understood. As far as I'm concerned, there was one more question about whether the soldiers would have to move to May. Well, they won't. Because I assume that the material that will be checked will be recounted to May. This is where the military plays the primary role of the perimeter watchman or the space watchman. And that's not to get anyone out of the compound, but not to get into the compound, because the second explosion is really suspicious, and of course there's a reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed there, which the police are currently investigating. So that's why the army is deployed, and every month the position report goes to the government. We are very well aware that we need soldiers elsewhere, but until Vrbetic's problem is resolved and done, I would like them to stay there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u31	I thank the Minister of the Interior and now Minister Stropnický. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u32	Thank you, Mr President. The soldiers are deployed in Vrbetice at the moment 223, today's number, I think. It never reached half the maximum that the government has in its resolution, that's the 450. And of course, there's no reason to bring here, to this land, the need to tell each other between the two ministries how to do the best for this gradual reduction. In this respect, I need to hear those military voices, and I need to understand them. And at the same time, the last thing I'd do or sign under is that if there's soldiers 150 or 170 there's gonna be, like, God forbid there's gonna be any trouble. So she's a very sensitive thing. As for May, that's where it's prepared in the regime that it would be two, three dozen people, tops, most of them firemen. And military police security. Even the firefighters are meant in the first sequence of military police capabilities. That number is, let's say, really relatively small. But once again, I'm going to repeat that the army is promising a lot from the fact that it really decontaminated as it gradually decontaminated, and that's not the whole Vrbětic circuit, that's a few sections, that's the outer perimeter, so at that point, there's even more to be done, as it fell here, using the technique, and those numbers can gradually decrease. I'm going to try not to have a single soldier there for one day longer, but at the same time we have a duty to cooperate with the police.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u33	Thank you, Minister Stropnický. Mr Jiří Štětina, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u34	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I promised I'd be here four minutes, and I'd do anything for it. Therefore, my speech will be very brief. First of all, allow me to express my personal appreciation to all citizens and residents of adjacent villages. Because it was an extraordinary event, it was a disaster! As one of the authors of the publication Medicine and IZS in emergencies and disasters, I know very well what it is. Therefore, my speech will be limited to two questions only. But before I put them down, I must say that I am really satisfied with the answers of both ministers, which sounds a little bit wrong from the opposition Member. But it's true. By the time I get to those two questions, or more of an observation, let me go back 50 years. These days it will be 50 years when I was as a young soldier disinfect, as I would say in Czech, it is called Pthirus pubis, we called it crabs, when the guard squad in one large ammunition warehouse was hit by this animal. [[The laughter of some Members]] But I'm not saying it for that reason, I'm saying it for the reason that at the time the ammunition warehouse had three bands. The first zone was a warning, the second zone was a warning, and the third zone was fired. So that's how the ammunition depots were secured. [[There's noise in the hall, some of the Members are discussing with each other.]] I had to do it again or have it explained to myself what ammo is. And that, in fact, ammo itself can't explode. That's what the experts, the bomb squad and the people who took care of these warehouses told me. I think the Minister, by your means, also said that the second explosion wasn't so much kosher. And now I'm getting to the main thing I want to say. I believe that many words have fallen here and simply repeat and gain political points, no one will get them here. But I'd like to know who and which government was responsible for the fact that ammunition warehouses were transferred to use or to some pseudo-privatization of private companies. I haven't heard that question before. We've heard a lot of questions here, but not this one. So this is what I would like to know, and I am actually convinced that the authorities involved in criminal proceedings will also answer this question. And, of course, I respect that if it's a live case, it's hard for anyone to answer that question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u35	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I beg you to stop for a moment. I'll ask my honored colleagues to keep their voices down. It's late hours, but please consider your colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u36	And the second question is fundamental, and it really follows from what I've been doing for maybe 30 years, so how this object has been addressed in terms of crisis management and planning. Because such an object must be part of the emergency plans. If he wasn't, and I haven't heard anything yet, if we've got an answer to that question, as the public, then, of course, measures must be developed there. First, preventive, second, rendering, and third, the final, i.e. Restrictive. And in conclusion, I want to say one thing, and it's my conviction. It's really not this government's fault. I believe that seed was sown here sometime in 2006. pseudo-privatization and corruption, when it was simply a great effort to drain or divert millions, maybe hundreds of millions of money. So let's not want this government to be responsible. That's the responsibility of others! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr Štětin. So far, the last person to sign up for the general debate is Mr. Mayor Vlachovice-Vrbětice, who has asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Mayor, you have the floor. Honored colleagues, please remain calm. Please, Mr. Mayor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u38	I'd like to say good evening. Dear Government, Mr President, honourable Members, honourable guests, we are once again meeting here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, where we are dealing with the situation here in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. I'm very grateful for that. I've come to ask you first of all today. But before I do that, I would like to thank the integrated rescue system and the forces of the army that take care of us, and I think they take very good care of us because they provide us with safety and quiet moments in particular. I would like to ask you a few essential things, namely that the integrated rescue system works well in this environment, so that all ammo is ensured by the state, that no one makes it difficult for them to examine the conditions and, above all, the removal of ammunition and other substances that are essential to us. Throughout these activities, I ask that the entire area be re-guarded. At the same time, I ask that the state testify as quickly as possible all leases in our premises in Vrbětice and after the remediation, discuss with us the fate of this complex. And since it turns out that the investigation and security of the entire premises will take longer, I ask that the State take responsibility for all the damage caused. Just for the record, the victim's example is a private man who bought several million in this forest, and he still doesn't know when he'll be able to farm in this forest. These are my most important, and not just mine, but all of us who live here, requests. I thank you for your attention, understanding and efforts to resolve this situation with us as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Since I no longer see an application for a detailed debate, in that case, I conclude the general debate and ask whether the rapporteur will take the final floor. Will you take the final floor, rapporteur? [[Yes.]] You've got room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, there were exactly 60 Members and Members in the debate, and my situation as rapporteur did not make it any easier for me. I'd like to say what was said. It's a wonder private firms deal with such dangerous material. Criticism of carrying out checks in the ammunition warehouse. Criticism of the organization of rescue and remediation work. Criticism of current legislation to deal with military ammunition. The controversy about which political garniture caused the event. Challenges to publish military contracts with private companies that store ammunition. Criticism of abuse of factual remarks. This was especially true for the previous discussion. Further, as it will be with May, how long will it take to join the army in Vrbětice. Critical communication between ministers of the interior and defence about the security of the premises. That was explained later. Criticism of failure of state control and supervision. What will be the next fate of the Vrbětice complex. How it is with the action of the company Bochemie etc. etc. I would like to, if I may, and open up a detailed debate, load, Mr President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u41	First you finish the final word, and then I will open a detailed debate and it will be possible to read the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u42	I'm not basically going to name everything that's been talked about here. I partly included some of these things in my motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u43	Thank you. We will therefore now proceed to the detailed debate which I am opening with this, and Vice-President Gazdík has come forward with priority rights, and then I have the rapporteur's priority right. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Based on consultations with the management of the village of Vlachovice-Vrbětice and on what we, as the Chamber of Deputies, probably expect of the citizens of the surrounding municipalities who are affected by what happened in Vlachovice-Vrbětice, and on the primary responsibility that the state bears in this regard, I would like to propose the following resolutions: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic strongly calls on the Government to assume all responsibility for the handling of ammunition by the State; Furthermore, to ensure the security of the entire ammunition warehouse area until the final removal of the ammunition; to order the Military Technical Institute to terminate existing contracts with companies which are landlords of ammunition warehouses in the Municipality of Vlachovice-Vrbětice, from its position as founder; to negotiate with the municipality of Vlachovice-Vrbětice and other surrounding municipalities on the use of the premises; to take responsibility for the damage caused, including the comprehensive compensation of natural and legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u45	Thank you. Just for the record, I would like to ask, Mr Vice-President, is this one text, which means a motion for a single resolution as one paragraph? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Furthermore, with priority rights, the rapporteur and his resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u46	Resolution on the discussion of the Government's information on the situation after the explosions in the ammunition warehouse in Vlachovice-Vrbětice - 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 12. 12. 2014 and 10. 2. 2015: The Chamber of Deputies notes the reports of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec and Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický on the situation in the premises of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice-Vlachovice in Zlinsko. Furthermore, the Chamber of Deputies heard information about the current situation presented by Mayor Vrbětic-Vlachovic Zdeněk Hověžák and Deputy Governor of the Zlín Region Jaroslav Drozd. The Chamber of Deputies notes that in the period from 12. 12. 2014 to 10. 2. In 2015 there was a significant shift in the process of working to eliminate causes and consequences of explosions as well as to calm the situation. Even so, the Chamber of Deputies reserves regular information on the removal of the consequences after the explosions, the investigation of their causes, the removal of ammunition into spare warehouses as well as the remediation of the storage area and its surroundings in Vrbětice-Vlachovice. Furthermore, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to prepare changes in legislation that will ensure stricter rules on the handling of dangerous military material. And for the last one. The Chamber of Deputies also calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of compensation for possible material damage, for other damage to the affected residents in the vicinity of the ammunition warehouse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u47	I thank the rapporteur. Mr Kováčik, Member of the KSČM MP, is now reporting with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, I personally like the proposal made by Vice-President Gazdík, however, given that I am prepared to vote for him - but given that it contains requirements for the military and other national components, I would like to make a really objective decision before I can at least make an assessment of the proposal, for example, by the Minister of Defence, who must - should - to tell the Chamber of Deputies, if, for example, the military is capable of tasks that the House, if any, would, after approving the proposal, even fulfil if it has the capacity to do so, if it has the capacity to do so. [[♪ give ♪]] [[20.50 hours]] In my view, we cannot decide on this resolution with a clear conscience now, from the side, that we will do so. I say yes, I would like it this way, as Vice-President Gazdík has read it, but I would like enough time to make a credible decision so that we can really assess the proposal with all objectivity. I do not want to propose interruptions or I do not want to take a break, but I would like to ask that we vote on the motions for resolutions that will fall in this House at a time when we will have all these expertise at our disposal. I would therefore like to ask that we at least receive those proposals in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u49	In that case, Mr Kováčik urges me to interrupt the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies for 15 minutes after all the motions for resolution have been tabled before the proposals are copied and tabled on benches. Will that be enough, Mr. Chairman? A quarter of an hour is a good time, or do you want more? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u50	In the first part, yes, you understood me well. In the second part, however, I requested that we obtain appropriate expertise, respectively. to inform the Chamber of Deputies that this can also be done, that the State has the capacity to do so, that the State has the options to do so, and that if we hear it this way, I will vote with a clear conscience in favour of Mr Gazdík's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u51	I take that as a procedural proposal that I have to put to the vote, but I still don't know what you think is the term until you imagine it - until the experts present it. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u52	I am convinced that for example. The Minister of Defence, given the duration of the problem, should at least have had an overview of whether the military was able to meet the requirements contained in your proposal, Mr Vice-President. And if he does that now, now, or in the next few minutes, then we wouldn't have to interrupt. I presend that we have until 21 o'clock, and I wouldn't want to delay the House any longer. In that case, I would suggest that we interrupt this point by hitting 21st hour until the relevant expertise is available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u53	Now, first, the Minister of Defence, then the Minister of the Interior, then the Vice-President and the rapporteur. That's what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u54	I'll try to be quick. Mr President, colleagues, I confess that on some points I would need some - not long, but not in minutes or in hours, but in the category of days, let's say the possibility of consultation. Because point 1 - so that all responsibility for handling ammunition is taken over by the state does not pose any problem to me. In order to ensure that the government guards the entire area of ammunition storage, until the final removal of the ammunition - is defined quite widely, it is not specified. So I don't know if this is a problem. That is not possible at this time, because the goods would not be subject to any legal regime at all. That can only be done if it's taken away. So it's a thing that's physically or legally impossible. We checked that out. About the use, etc. - I don't want the other two points. I would sum it up in my opinion that this could be linked to the possible next report that we will be presenting with the Minister for Government. So it's a category, let's say, two weeks, roughly, maybe the minister will give me more precision. But this time, in order for a person to actually apply responsibly, I'd like to ask for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u55	I thank the Minister, who didn't make it too easy for me, because I still don't know how long the time should be. We probably won't be able to vote in nine o'clock for any resolution in those six minutes, and I'm gonna have to cancel the meeting for a while. Wait, now the Home Secretary has applied, please, Minister. Then with priority rights, you, then the rapporteur. pardon, Mr. President of the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u56	Mr President, colleagues, I have listened with interest to both motions for a resolution, as I do not think that there is a problem with the rapporteur and his proposal, so with Mr Gazdík's proposal that he take over all responsibility for the handling of ammunition, I do not know what to imagine. To guard the entire area of the ammunition warehouse until the final shipment of the ammo is solved by the state - well, the state is already dealing with that, and as I said, it gives a positional report every month according to the state that is realistic and real at that time. In order to declare all the lease agreements to impose on the Secretary of Defense today - I hardly think that is possible because there is a third person there, that is an entity with legal personality, the Military Technical Institute, and if there is any legal claim to those firms today and any compensation, let us not make our legal position worse. Of course, the Prime Minister declared that after all the ammo was removed, the ammunition would never return. That means they're leases until they're taken or transported. To negotiate with the village of Vlachovice-Vrbětice and others about the use of the premises - precisely this public promise was given by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic in negotiations with the mayors. It was made clear that they would be the first ones to discuss it with. I think a guarantee in the form of a public pledge by the Prime Minister might be enough. And in order to take responsibility for the damage caused, including the comprehensive compensation of natural and legal persons - that, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, would deprive us of the possibility to enforce it on the originator. So for this resolution - I do not need to examine it, I say for myself that I am not willing to vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u57	Thank you, Home Secretary. One moment, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but it's certain here with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u58	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, dear government, colleagues, I see four minutes of time. If there is a will, I would only read the motion for a resolution in the context of a detailed debate, and I would interrupt this meeting to stop debating, because we have heard all the current information from the ministers. In writing, everyone gets what they have, and at the next next next meeting, as we vote, they just vote resolutions that fit us. And we'll close the Vrbětice. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. However, the meeting day ends at nine zero, and I, unfortunately, will have to interrupt the House's meeting at nine. The President of the ODS, after whom the rapporteur, Mr.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u60	Talking for three minutes is no problem, especially for me. But I don't really get it, so we've gone about whether or not the resolution is. At the same time, we have not allowed the three colleagues who have been there for several weeks, I think, since 12 December, to formally sign up for their amendments. So I am asking you all, let them say it, so we can have all the motions for resolutions, because we don't know what's going to happen. [[Exhibits of consent.]] And then let's just break it off. I think it's gone out a long time ago. Clearly, the government does not want to adopt any resolution except that it is doing well. He's entitled to it, he's got most of it. But let at least the three colleagues read for those two, so that they formally resign - because we won't end up having a detailed debate today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u61	Shall I take that as a procedural proposal, Mr President? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Furthermore, the rapporteur with priority rights. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u62	I just want to explain that there's no way we can make it today anyway. Because I had prepared the motion to vote on all resolutions, with the fact that then some conciliation group, a group of those proponents of the resolution, would meet for some kind of penetration. And that's not funny. Because there are some things repeated and some things may not be voted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u63	Thank you to the rapporteur. If you allow - even if I bend or violate the Rules of Procedure now, there is no objection, I, as the President, would allow three colleagues to load them - there is an objection. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u64	There's an objection. The day ends at 21.00. Once we break through, we always break through. It's not my fault the rapporteur's sabotaging it. It's really not my fault.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-024-03-001-001.u65	I'm sorry, but it'll be over in half a minute. I don't know if it's worth coming here, Mr. Ambassador... [[Voices from the O.R.]] There. Because in a minute, today's... And, so, Mr. Mr. Hovorka. Oh, not anymore. I'm sorry, it's 9:00. I am interrupting this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Tomorrow will continue the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at 9 a.m.
