ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 349/1999 Coll., on the Ombudsman, as amended, and other related laws /German press 379/ - first reading We discussed this press on Tuesday, 7 April, at the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted it until the presence of Ms Anna Šabatová's public defender of rights. The Ombudsman is present here, and I hereby welcome her to the Chamber of Deputies. The condition for the consideration of this point has therefore been met. At the rapporteur's table, Minister Dienstbier and rapporteur Mrs Adamová have already taken their seats. I remind you that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee, and we should now decide on the commandment of this press to other committees for discussion. I would like to point out that the general debate has been closed, and I will, therefore, merely recapitulate what proposals have been made in order. It was proposed to order this press to the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, the Permanent Committee on Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities, the Committee on Social Policy and the Committee on Control. I will not register any further proposals on the commandment here either, so the only thing that awaits us at this stage is the vote. I'll call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, and I'll sign you all out, because the number on the board is significantly higher than the number of colleagues and colleagues in the hall. I ask for a new registration, and as soon as the number of people present on the board is settled, we will vote. We have already decided on the guarantee committee and now only seven votes on the commandments to each committee. I will be speaking on individual proposals and I will put them to a vote. First of all, there is a motion on the commandment of the committee to the petitioner. Initiating the vote, I ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting time is 52, registered 101, for 99 against no one. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is for this press to be directed to the Security Committee. Initiating the vote, I ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 53, registered is 107, for 31, against 61. This proposal has not been adopted. Another motion about the Commandment of the Defence Committee. Initiating the vote, I ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 54, registered is 115, for 28, against 71. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal: order the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 55, registered is 120, for 22, against 71. This proposal has not been adopted. Another proposal: order a permanent committee for family, equal opportunities and national minorities. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 56, registered is 125, for 45, against 65. This proposal has not been adopted. Other proposal: order the Committee on Social Policy. Initiating the vote, I ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting time is 57, registered is 129, for 43, versus 65. The motion was not accepted. And the final proposal is about the commandment to the inspection committee. Initiating the vote, I ask who agrees to the motion to order the inspection committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 58, registered is 133, for 33, versus 76. This proposal has not been adopted. I therefore conclude that, in addition to the guarantee committee, which is the Committee of Constitutional Law, we have ordered this press to discuss the Committee of Penitentiary Affairs. I have a point here that Mr Stanjura has proposed an extension of 30 days, but this proposal is not voteable because it has not been mentioned in the general debate. [[Mr Stanjure is reporting.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u2	Mr President, that's quite possible, I really don't remember exactly how it was. But I remember asking specific questions here about Minister Dienstbier, and he just didn't bother to answer. I think that's a terrible pity. Then he'll be surprised if the law doesn't pass. Well, I hope he doesn't pass. But I asked him, for example, if he thinks a private owner can choose a tenant, and I didn't get the answers, even though the minister showed us everything. And I'd like to challenge him, and I'd like to challenge him, since we already have that point, so he's not afraid to answer, and he's not afraid to say what he thinks about it. This is not how I think the debate is supposed to take place - that you ask specific questions and the minister sits down, the selected flags point like this, and we will not know anything. [[Mr Stanjura by turning his thumbs suggests how to vote]] I'm the one who thinks it shouldn't be like this. And the argument that this will be discussed in committee, so that is true, but many of us are in committees other than the ÚP or the Petition Committee, many of you have taken the opportunity by voting to comment in detail on this in the committees, the longer the debate will be at second reading. Well, why not, we're definitely gonna make it. [[14.40 hours]] I would like to call on the Minister, he is not here so often with his bill to answer the questions that have been raised. I'm sure she's not the only one. I can take the tape, and I can quote it. And the method of silence, silence, silence is almost like hammering, hammering, hammering. I'd really like to know, because we've been discussing this quite widely. Just like the dangerous motion to sue in the public interest. If it turns out to be the way the House's machine guns say it's gonna go, but both new ombudsman powers aren't, then why not, but then I'm asking why we're actually discussing the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u3	Thank you. I don't register any more performances with priority rights. In that case, I'm saying that I have to end this point because we've exhausted all possibilities. So I finish first reading point 21, thank you Mrs. Ombudsmance for participating. Let's continue with point 120. The Minister, who resisted a refined attempt to reopen the debate, reports with priority rights. I assume he will now answer the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u4	I appreciate Mr Stanjura's repeated attempt to provoke me to reopen the debate. I am very happy to answer his question about ownership after the previous item has been discussed. I would like to assure Mr Stanjura that the protection of ownership is undoubtedly very important, ultimately enshrined both in our Charter and in a number of other human rights international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. But at the same time, I would also like to point out to him that our Charter does not contain ownership as a pure law, but also contains a claim that it obliges ownership. And, of course, other very important protected rights are our Constitution and other international documents, and, of course, these rights need to be applied in proportion. Thus, disproportionate protection of ownership ends where it disproportionately interferes with another constitutionally protected fundamental human right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u5	Yes. I have two applications with priority rights: Mr Stanjura, then Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u6	I had no idea that the questions raised in the general debate were understood by Minister Dienstbier as provocation and an attempt to provoke someone. If you answer me the way you were supposed to, in my opinion, only according to the principles of decent behavior, that at the time of the question, you have the opportunity to answer, answer, it was no attempt to open the debate today. I'm not that naive, and I'm not that inexperienced. However, I must say, you haven't answered my question. You said nice ten sentences, but I asked if the owner had the right to choose his tenant. The answer is yes or no. You don't have to quote all the international conventions. And if you want to quote them, give a specific case where the owner... I don't know what "inappropriate protection of property rights" is, I don't fully understand it at the moment I choose a tenant. Maybe there's something like that, I just don't know, so I'd like you to give me a specific case. I really beg when I ask you to answer my questions, to call it provocation and to provoke someone. It was nothing like that, and it isn't. And we still can't avoid the debate. Do you feel like you've grown on me, that you've won? But we'll see what happens at third reading. That's where you'll know who won the debate. You can't tell today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u7	Mr. Laudát, then Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What you've done here, Minister Dienstbier, is really unfair and awful. I can still understand when a minister simply runs away and then responds controversially to some questions only in the final word. We have warned many times here that this is unfair to the debaters, to those who are asking questions because they no longer have a chance to respond. What you just did is an outrage of the highest grain! Because even after the end of that point - we didn't delay it, no one provoked you, and you did the worst you could do. If you're gonna do it this way, or anyone in the government next time, I'm gonna warn you that this isn't gonna happen without a break and without the proper impact on the next hearing. Really, try to start being polite here. I know you're not here many times, maybe you're here to debate that it provokes in the final word, when the MPs and the MPs no longer have a chance to react backwards, so sometimes they're also the subject of an attack, but what you've done here, when even after the end of the point you've reopened it in this way, when no one can react, it really has nothing to do with decent behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u9	Minister, then with priority rights Mr. Chairman of the Dawn Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u10	I would just like to ask Mr Stanjura and Mr Laudát to look at the log. There they will find that the debate - I responded in principle to everything that was said there. Unfortunately, the last time, in the previous discussion, the question raised by Mr Stanjura here today, he applied it only after the general debate in the context of his priority right. Look at the log, it's there. Then, of course, the accusations of outrageousness on my part have a slightly lighter weight in my eyes, because what was in the debate, I responded last time, only after the debate ended here, this question fell. And I have deliberately waited for the end of the debate so that I do not reopen the debate. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u11	Yes. Prime Minister Černoch's right of priority, then President Kalousek's right of priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u12	Thank you. I don't think it really matters how much it weighs in your eyes or doesn't matter, but it's true that these questions are left unanswered. I think that rather than smiling here, it would be better to go and answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u13	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and by your means, I would like to say with all due respect to Minister Dienstbier that his feeling that he has answered all the questions is indeed his subjective feeling. I would like to ask any of you colleagues to raise your hand now, if you remember that any particular question was answered specifically by Minister Dienstbier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u15	That was the last performance with the priority... Mr. Chairman Okamura. [[Glee in the hall.]] I'll give you my word, and then I'll have to consult the House's Organizational Department, but please, you have your say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u16	I'm still the chairman. I haven't been called off yet. [[Room cheer, questions.]] I don't know either. That's what we have to ask. [[Laughter.]] I would also like to make a brief comment on this. It's not so much fun, because indeed, Minister Dienstbier here doesn't answer any questions, and basically we only hear his opinions through the media and on television. But when the House of Deputies is supposed to have a real discussion here, suddenly there is no presentation and discussion of opinions. I would just like to point out that when I see Mrs Šabatová and Mr Dienstbier together here, I would like to point out that human rights are not limited to Muslims, Rom or other groups in the Czech Republic, but above all, it should not be forgotten about the majority Czech society. [[14.50 hours]] And that's the difference that we've actually been talking about since the beginning, that somebody has confused their position with defending minorities. And I am not saying this ethnically, but on the contrary, those who pay are the majority, the working majority, and we should definitely not forget them. That's the problem why I've already said when we started to discuss this, basically, that in no way do I support the extension of the Ombudsman's powers if there's a person like Mrs Šabatová. Since we are not to personify this, but since ČSSD, YES, TOP 09 and others are elected for the next five years, we really need to see it from this point of view. We are not at the end of the period, we are at the beginning of the period when MEPs YES, ČSSD, TOP 09 and others, if I remember correctly, publicly supported Mrs Šabatová's choice and signed up to defend themselves in the first place the interests of Rom people, the interests of Muslims and the interests of others. It is not possible that a teacher is afraid to give a bad grade at school because he has a Muslim as a pupil. This is an example from Western Europe. It is not possible for an Ombudswoman, such a high-ranking official, to hire or send some set-up Romka women, who provoke in a real estate agency, and then, in a strange way, take part in the situation of a discriminated minority and ask for compensation. That's what we have here, for example, the Czech Trade Inspection in other cases, which is part of the job description, that it controls the quality of consumer goods and so on, but I don't understand where the Ombudsman takes these ideas. I don't even understand who's paying for it, where people take their time, actually, that the provocateurs who provoke the majority society, and then they ask for compensation. After all, in the real estate agency, they said that the owners of the apartments do not want to rent - they are afraid to rent, not want to rent, they are afraid to rent apartments in most Romani minorities. On the contrary, it is also a problem for my Romani friends who complain about it. They're decent people, they often have college education, and they have problems like that. But the solution is not to punish a majority who is not responsible for the fact that a group behaves inadequately and often parasites on majority societies, so we simply punish it. That's just not acceptable. And when I see them both here, I would really like to challenge them not to forget who the majority society is here, who pays them from their taxes, and to return to the fact that human rights are to be held by everyone, and to defend everyone's rights equally. And I myself am half yellow, as you know, and I say this with the fact that I could play some sort of discrimination myself when I was being cursed by my entire childhood here in Číňan, into the Vietnamec, which, unlike Mr. Dienstbier and Mrs. Šabatová, I experienced on my own, so I'm not some theorist, but I'm a practicer. But it certainly doesn't lead the way against discrimination with what you're doing. Absolutely not. The way is, they start working, they start showing companies that they're an asset, not a liability. And to do that, we must lead them not by sending some provocateurs into a real estate agency to terrorize decent companies and a majority company. This really doesn't lead. And since I've been working, I haven't had any discrimination, I can tell you that. For 20 years, no one's mocking me for my looks, and I have no problems at all. So that's the practice manual. And you theorists who haven't experienced it in your life, so here you are showing us your experiments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u17	President Kalousek's right of priority. I'm alerting all those who report with technical remarks that we're off point, that means only priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u18	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to stall anymore, but when I see the President of the Dawn Parliamentary Club not reporting, I wanted to encourage him to do certain activities, because I believe that if the rights of the Czech majority society are defended by an ethnic Japonec, then Černoch should not be ashamed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-010-021.u19	So let's continue with the point.
