ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-019-016.u1	16. Government bill on rules of budgetary responsibility / House print 412 - first reading Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-019-016.u2	Thank you, Madam President. They're not short words, they're longer words. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the Government's bill on the rules of budgetary responsibility. It is a legislation that follows the draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility and implements its provisions. The proposed law constitutes a general regulation on other regulations in the budgetary field, therefore it contains only essential requirements which are further regulated by special legislation, such as the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets or the Act on Departmental, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Institutions. The proposed law regulates, develops the main parameters of the existing national fiscal framework, which is based on fiscal strength of multiannual spending and fiscal decentralization. The concept of the current adjustment is based on a reform of public finances prepared in 2003, the main objective of which was to strengthen the medium-term dimension of public budgets. The main shortcomings of the current Czech fiscal framework can be seen in particular in the tendency to deficit management, the countercyclical nature of fiscal policy and in the absence of elements limiting information asymmetry, supporting credibility, flexibility and transparency of government sector management. It is precisely these shortcomings that should help to eliminate, as far as possible, the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility and, in particular, the subsequent draft law on budgetary responsibility rules. [[Noise in the hall.]] On the specific content of the bill, I would like to mention the following. The draft law defines, for the purposes of budgetary responsibility, the definition of the sector of public institutions. This is a coverage that is consistent with the definition used in the European Union's budgetary surveillance. The aim is to widen the perception in which fiscal policy and public finances are currently understood at national level. Furthermore, the general regulation applicable to the whole sector of public institutions is introduced, requiring each public institution to draw up a draft budget and a medium-term perspective for at least two additional financial years. At the same time, proposals are imposed, approved budgets and medium-term forecasts and budget implementation are made public. The Ministry of Finance will be obliged to publish the information required by the Directive on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. [[Big noise from the right.]] The draft law also contains requirements for the Ministry's macroeconomic and fiscal forecasts used for budgetary planning purposes. These include, for example, their comparison with the European Commission's forecasts, the preparation of sensitivity analyses or the publication of methodologies and assumptions used in their production. [[17.20 hours]] In the context of ensuring a regular assessment of the forecast prepared by the Ministry for the purposes of preparing the state budget, the State Fund budget and the health insurance fund budget and their medium-term prospects, a Committee on Budgetary Forecasts is set up. Its members shall be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the National Budget Board. Membership in the committee will be an honorable function. The Ministry of Finance will prepare the document Budget strategy of the public institutions sector. This will constitute a medium-term budgetary framework for the next three years and will also include the convergence programme submitted to the European Commission. In addition to the information required by the Directive on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States, the strategy will also include data on total expenditure of the public institutions sector and expenditure frameworks of the State budget and state funds. The strategy will be discussed by the government and approved always by 30 April of that year. The procedure for deriving the amount of the expenditure framework of the State budget and state funds will be newly defined. The Ministry shall draw it from the total amount of expenditure of the public institution sector, which shall be determined as the sum of the amounts, at most one percent of the nominal GDP forecast, that is the medium-term budgetary objective, and the forecasted total consolidated revenues of the public institution sector, adjusted for the effects of the economic cycle and one-off operations for the following year. The total expenditure of the public institutions sector will thus be directly linked to the achievement of the national medium-term budgetary objective. Total expenditure will be reduced following the development of the so-called Corrections in the form of a virtual account where deviations of actual expenditure of the public finance sector are recorded from their compliance with the rule of the expected level. The reduction will always take place by one third of the amount of the correctional component exceeding two percent of nominal GDP for the previous year in a given year. On the other hand, total expenditure may be increased by expenditure incurred on the basis of the deterioration of the state's security situation. A summary of expenditure related to the removal of the consequences of natural disasters and the implementation of international agreements and other international commitments if it exceeded 3% of GDP. And expenditure related to the forecasted significant deterioration in economic development. This means a quarterly year-on-year decline in GDP of at least 3%. The last increase will be possible with the opinion of the National Budget Board. The starting parameter of the medium-term budgetary objective of one percent of GDP will be possible to increase by as much as 0,75 % for the total expenditure for 2017 to 2019 respectively. by 0.25 % of GDP. The National Budget Board will also participate in the preparation of the methodology of the procedure for deriving the expenditure framework of the State budget and state funds from the total expenditure of the public institutions sector, the cleaning of revenue by the effect of the economic cycle and the definition of one-off operations. The Council will also deliver an opinion on the establishment of that expenditure framework. The whole process will be carried out as transparently as possible. The rule of total expenditure should lead to a significant reduction in the procyclical nature of fiscal policy and, to a large extent, the depoliticalisation of the stability function in public finances. The rule is consistent with the requirements of the fiscal agreement in its main features. In relation to the management of a territorial self-governing entity, a rule is introduced on the basis of which, if its debt at the end of the year exceeds 60 per cent of its income average over the last four financial years, it must reduce that overrun by at least five per cent of the difference between the amount of its debt and its regulated level. If the local government does not reduce its debt in this way and it continues to exceed the regulated level by the end of the following year, the Ministry will decide to suspend the transfer of its share of the share of the income of shared taxes in the amount of the legally required reduction. The territorial self-governing entity will be able to request the Ministry of Finance to withdraw the suspension of the transfer of the share in the proceeds of shared taxes to cover its debt. If the debt of a territorial self-governing entity does not exceed the regulated level, the Ministry of Finance will decide to abolish the suspension of the tax transfer. In principle, that mechanism does not restrict the autonomy of the management of local authorities, but only defines the minimum amount and the rate of repayment of its debt obligations in excess of the legally regulated level. The procedure for withholding and easing revenue from shared taxes will be regulated by the Act on budgetary determination of taxes. Its amendment will take effect on 1 January 2018. The draft law also contains measures for cases where the effectiveness of the previously mentioned rules proves insufficient. The following measures will be applied in a situation where the debt ratio of the general government sector to GDP reaches at least 55 per cent. The Government will approve and submit to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal and a medium-term outlook for the state budget and budgets of state funds that lead to a long-term sustainable state of public finances. If the draft State Budget Act or the draft State Fund Budget has already been submitted without fulfilling this condition, the Government will withdraw the proposal and submit a new proposal. In principle, this requirement means that the government's fiscal strategy will lead to a medium-term budgetary objective in its horizon. Achieving a long-term sustainable state of public finances can be identified with a budgetary position close to the medium-term budgetary objective, i.e. a situation that allows for dealing with common conjunctural fluctuations while avoiding excessive budgetary imbalances. The Government will submit proposals to the Chamber of Deputies for balanced budgets of health insurance companies. It will only be able to submit draft deficit budgets if the deficit can be paid from a maximum of one third of the insurance undertaking's financial balances over the past years or a refundable financial assistance. The territorial self-governing body shall approve its budget for the following year as being balanced or surplus. The budget will only be approved as deficit if the deficit can be covered by past years' funds or by a refundable financial assistance. A contractually secured loan, loan or income from the sale of municipal government bonds will only be able to cover the deficit arising from the pre-financing of projects co-financed by the budgets of the European Union. Other public institutions will not be able to establish new obligations under contracts that result in an increase in the debt of the general government sector for more than one calendar year after a period of at least 55 per cent of GDP. The exemption will be possible for commitments relating to projects co-financed by the budget of the European Union or the commitments necessary to comply with the decisions of the courts or the authorities of the State. According to the proposal, the measure will not apply for a period of 24 months in the event of a significant deterioration of economic development, in the case of significant expenditure of the state budget related to the removal of the consequences of natural disasters and expenditure resulting from the fulfilment of international obligations of the Czech Republic and in the event of a deterioration of the state's security situation. If the debt of the general government sector amounts to more than 60 per cent of GDP, the government will propose measures to reduce this amount. The Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility was defined by the National Budget Board. It will be an independent body operating in the area of fiscal and budgetary policy. The Council will include an evaluation of the implementation of the numerical fiscal rules for which it will submit a report to the Chamber of Deputies. It will also identify the debt levels of the public institutions sector, monitor the economic development of the public institutions sector and report on the long-term sustainability of public finances. The Council will also, in its opinion, comment on the calculation of the correctional component for the rule on determining the total expenditure of the public institutions sector. The President of the Council will be entitled to attend the meeting of the Government and the meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts in an advisory capacity. It will also attend meetings of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate or their institutions if reports or opinions of the Council are discussed. The Council will be able to request information and synergies from public institutions. It shall consist of a President and two other members. The President of the Council will be proposed by the Government and two other members of the Senate and the Czech National Bank, and everyone will be elected by the Chamber of Deputies for a period of six years. On the first election of the members of the Board, the term of office of the President will be six years, a member proposed by the Senate for four years and a member proposed by the CNB for two years. The proposal also contains a list of the assumptions for the performance of the board member's duties and functions and activities incompatible with that exercise. The Office of the National Budget Board shall be established in order to carry out tasks related to the professional organisational, administrative, personnel and technical assurance of the Board's activities. It's gonna be an organizational branch of the state. Expenditure on the activities of the Board and its Office shall be covered by a separate chapter of the State budget. The establishment of an independent fiscal institution also creates a prerequisite for meeting the requirements of the fiscal agreement and, in particular, European Union law concerning euro area Member States. [[17.30 hours]] In addition to the efforts to consolidate the national fiscal framework, the bill follows some of the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact reformed in 2011. The Czech Republic is obliged to adapt the national fiscal framework to the requirements of the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact, which affect all Member States of the European Union. In addition, it is obliged to properly transpose Council Directive No. 2011/85/EU on requirements for Member States' budgetary frameworks. Member States were required to bring into force the laws necessary to comply with this Directive by 31 December 2013. The Czech Republic received the so-called "European Commission" in this context in January last year. formal notice on the incomplete implementation of the directive. The draft law does not conflict with the provisions of the fiscal agreement. The law is expected to be effective from 1 January 2016. So much for the 412 print.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-019-016.u3	Minister, I thank you, and now I will invite the rapporteur for this press, and that is Mr Votava. Then it's your turn again at the next point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-019-016.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, fellow Members, I think that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance have made a very thorough comment here on the bill on budgetary responsibility rules. Maybe I'd just be in a nutshell, but it's a very brief reminder of some things. Of course, the key is so-called. debt brake, with a debt of 55 per cent of gross domestic product. If this percentage is exceeded, then the measures listed under the law, which are there, will not be named. There are other provisions where these measures do not apply - in the event of a significant deterioration in economic development, in the event of an emergency, state of danger, during emergency measures declared by the government, etc. The debt brake is also introduced for local authorities. There is a limit of 60 percent of the average of their debt revenues over the past four years. Then, of course, the local government unit is obliged to reduce its debt. If not, there is a measure only after the suspension of the transfer of the share of taxes according to the budgetary determination of taxes. This law establishes a Committee on Budgetary Forecasts, a National Budgetary Board to evaluate the implementation of fiscal rules, monitor the development of the public institutions sector, report to the Chamber of Deputies on the long-term sustainability of public finances. The effectiveness of the law is 1. 1. 2016, and perhaps the Minister did not mention it, at least I did not register it, except for measures on local authorities - where efficiency shifts to 1. 1. 2018, but I think that's just the edge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-019-016.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. And before I invite the Minister of Finance to open another point to the microphone, allow me to state for the record that Mrs Lorencová and Mr Soukup are back in session, so they cancel their apology. Now I'm going to ask the Minister of Finance to open another point, and that is
