ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 43, 44 and 45 of the House prints 578, 579 and 580/ Mr Ladislav Šincl was the first to enter the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, Minister, first of all, allow me to appreciate the efforts of this government, which has been the first government since 1990 to prepare a proposal for a comprehensive regulation of gambling in the territory of the Czech Republic, which is represented by three bills, namely the Act on Gambling, the Gaming Tax Act and the Act amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of both previous laws. As the Minister mentioned in his opening remarks, the existing legislation represented mainly by the current Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, not only did it not reflect in any way the technological developments achieved in the previous more than 25 years in this area, especially with regard to Internet gambling, but in particular did not correspond to modern regulatory frameworks, which have now been held for many years by virtually all states in the European Union. For this reason, I welcome the activity of the Government of the Czech Republic in this area and its intensive, although, in my view, a partially delayed effort to remedy this unhappy legislative situation and to present such bills, which will enable the proper operation of gambling in our territory while ensuring effective sanctions for illegal gambling, in all its forms. This new regulation is all the more important given that it eliminates the many years of conflict of existing legislation with European law, as it allows the legal operation of gambling in our territory also to operators established in other Member States of the European Union. Given the vital importance of the regulation of this area in society, in my opinion, it is the duty of the Chamber of Deputies to submit all three proposals of the Gambling Act to a thorough analysis and to assess its impact not only on the business environment in this area, but also on society as a whole. In my opinion, interest in the speed of adoption of the proposed legislation should not outweigh expert discussions within the Houses of Committees. In my opinion, the Committee on Budgets should be the main guarantee committee and I also recommend that these proposals be discussed in view of their broad importance in terms of pathological phenomena as well as health and social committees. I also have some reservations about the amendment, and so allow me to address specific issues relating to these proposals, which should be addressed by the Chamber of Deputies in further readings. Primarily, I would like to address the issue of effective sanctions for illegal gambling, which is currently experiencing unprecedented booms and which fundamentally undermines proper competition in this sector and which, in particular, significantly threatens consumers themselves. At present, illegal gambling takes place in our territory in several forms, both in the area of online gambling operated from abroad and in the area of technical gaming facilities, where mass deployment of legal gaming equipment is carried out by various quizmat devices, clearly passed by the lottery law. The current action against these and other forms of illegal gambling appears to be extremely ineffective, including, of course, the obsolete legislative framework, which has not allowed the competent authorities effective sanctions. For this reason, it is necessary to assess positively not only the tightening of the sanctions that the competent authorities will be able to impose for the operation of unauthorised gambling, now up to 50 million. CZK versus 10 miles. CZK, but also the introduction of new measures aimed at preventing illegal operators from developing their activities on the domestic market. These measures include, in particular, blocking websites where illegal gambling is carried out, or blocking all payments made in connection with such gambling operations. Maintaining these mechanisms in the bill can be considered a necessary condition for modern regulation of online gambling. [[12.40 hours]] This should also be the case in the case of restrictions on the operation of illegal technical gaming facilities using so-called "the game'. a skill element to circumvent public regulation, such as the already mentioned quizomatas, Minister. Perhaps because of this kind of illegal device, the new legislation extends the definition of gambling in this direction, that new gambling will also be considered as gambling, where chance or unknown circumstance decides to win or lose only partially. In this case, too, it is necessary to assess, in cooperation with the petitioners of this proposal, the extent to which this regulation of the legal definition of gambling is sufficient from the point of view of a clear sub-location of quizoma and similar equipment under the provisions of the proposal of the Gaming Act, or whether it is not necessary to take further measures in the framework of the legislation under preparation to ensure effective sanctions for these high-risk gambling establishments, which threaten an increasing number of betting establishments. Similarly, the issue of consumer competitions that have been explicitly excluded in the text of the law remains to be resolved, but their comprehensive regulation has not yet been submitted by the Ministry of Finance. An important area, which, in my opinion, should not be left unnoticed during the committee procedure, is the so-called area. self-limiting measures. Here it will certainly be good in further discussions in the Chamber of Deputies and in committees to be explained by the petitioner why against the original strict version of the bill - I mean the version of the 12th month of last year - the petitioner, the Ministry of Finance, modified all the sections relating to gambling self-limiting measures. The amendments specifically concern two essential safeguards: firstly, the registration and setting of self-regulation measures - specifically, Section 14, Section 30 and Section 45. In the submitted bill, players are no longer obliged to set limits for regulation, etc., but they can refuse their settings, which is basically what everyone will do to accelerate the registration process. Secondly, the change in the already set-up of self-limiting parameters was originally considered at least 30 days, in the penultimate version in 15 days, and then the Minister brought to the government a version where only 7 days appeared. In relation to the protection of players against addiction and social damage, which is proven to cause gambling, the question of the limits of the amount of bets, which is still set at 20 times the original proposal, should not fall either. I stress, 20 times the original proposal, Minister. I consider it desirable that this subject should also be discussed carefully in the relevant committees. Finally, allow me to mention the technologically very demanding central information system for the operation of gambling, which is envisaged by the creation of a bill on gambling. This information system would not only monitor all bets on selected types of gambling, but would also concentrate data on players who will be banned from gambling under this law. The cost of creating this system will undoubtedly reach several hundred million crowns, but with regard to the unfinished legislative process it is not possible to define its specific parameters at present. In this respect, the authors of the proposal should take into account, in particular, the criterion of economy and, furthermore, the current government position on the effective management of public funds. It is very likely that all three proposals for the Gaming Act will be the subject of detailed and extensive negotiations within the Chamber of Deputies, whose course and, in particular, the outcome should pursue only one objective, thus setting really modern and functional regulation, which will ensure the proper operation of gambling in the territory of the Czech Republic and which will provide sufficient protection not only against illegal gambling supply, but also against the unfortunate consequences associated with their excessive participation in gambling. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u3	I thank Mr Šincl for his contribution. Another duly registered member is Mr Karel Fiedler. Excuse me, with priority rights, the rapporteur is reporting. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague Šincl. Of course, I don't give him the right to say anything here at the counter, but I don't understand his questions about why this law changed during development, and he wants an explanation of why some parameters were being adjusted. Yes, every law, when it is formed in the ministries, in the legislative council, is somehow regulated, then it comes to the government, the government has approved it in this form, and you, like everyone else, have the opportunity, through the President, to submit an amendment and to adapt it to your expectations. That's why it doesn't make sense to me to ask what was in front of the government. The government approved this, sent it to the House, let's discuss it. It seems to me like a completely unnecessary tease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u5	Thank you, Mr Volný. Now previously announced, duly registered Member Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good noon, ladies and gentlemen. We've linked the three-point discussion to one discussion. I am not sure that this has anything more to do with press 437, which relates essentially to the same issue, and what was said here yesterday - we are getting into a very special state of discussion of the amendment of this law. The Ministry of Finance prepared these three related laws which, according to the coalition contract, should solve the problem of pathological gambling and increase tax collection. In particular, from the European Union's point of view, they should resolve the release of the registered office for obtaining legal licences to foreign entities, further address the issue of the unpredictability of the adoption of generally binding decrees and the subsequent immediate cancellation of authorisations already issued. It is important to consider the set of these laws as a compact whole that needs to be discussed, analysed and evaluated in the context. That is why the amendment to the Volný Member, which I have already mentioned, which is discussed in parallel and only addresses the level of tax rates, is a completely unsystemic intervention in the regulation of lotteries, because it does not address the expansion of illegal operations, does not address pathological gambling and does not address the European Commission's complaints. It is just a simple, perhaps primitive legislative instrument to save the coalition as part of the promised above-standard collection of taxes from the lottery sector. The laws themselves had a very dramatic development. Deputy Minister of Finance Závodský was appointed to his post in mid-February 2014 and declared at one of his first press conferences the submission of a completely new lottery legislation by the end of June 2014 so that the date of notification could be met and thus the introduction of a comprehensive new legislation on 1. 1. 2016. It didn't happen. In mid-October 2014, he merely convened a press conference before the Senate and municipal elections, where he announced the submission of a completely perfect lottery law. I remind you, we're at the end of September 2015. However, this law has been revised several times for its fundamental shortcomings, and it has been submitted to the government with further delay in the form of another rather spectacular press conference in late December 2014 in order to comply with the deadline under the coalition agreement, and in theory this was the deadline for the Ministry of Finance. For other major shortcomings of the law, however, it has been redesigned again with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and its final form dates back to 28 August 2015, as it is now going to the Chamber of Deputies. [[12.50 hours]] Therefore, if the Deputy Finances of Závodský kept his word when taking up his duties, there could already be a law after notification and new quality comprehensive lottery legislation could apply without any problems from 1 January 2016. As I said once before, we are in September 2015 and at first reading and can only rightly be worried and worried about what will bring reproach in the framework of the notification process, and therefore whether the planned deadline of effectiveness will be respected, respectively. He won't be threatened. The delay in the legislative work of the Ministry of Finance has therefore caused the Ministry of Finance to be able in 2016 to only completely unsystematically affect the taxes of legal operators through the already mentioned parliamentary initiative of Mr Volný. So-called "Prime Minister' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. The Free amendment only deals with further taxation of legal operators and zhola and does not address illegal market players, which is also granted another tax holiday for the whole year 2016. The Ministry of Finance claims that the aim of taxing those who do not pay taxes is to establish an electronic record of sales. However, here in lottery regulation, it goes quite the other way around and focuses only on those legal tax-paying operators and officially grants illegal companies another tax holiday for 2016, as I said once before. Let us note here that there is quite a substantial difference in the Ministry of Finance's approach to these two laws. As I have said several times, I completely agree with the fact that collecting taxes, showing sales is correct and supposed to, for electronic sales records I have different reservations, but here is a completely different way where the gray or rather black sphere is left unnoticed and taxes increase to those who are already paying them. The lottery market is very complicated, but here this, which is the subject of this amendment, is somewhat contrary to the spirit of the amendment to the Electronic Recording of Sales Act. As part of the standard external comment procedure, a number of essential comments were made, in particular by the Chamber of Commerce, which deals with the regulated environment as a function. Since the law has made so many adjustments that have not passed any more comments, it is possible to talk about a law which has or does not have any support which has an impact on the budget of cities, municipalities, sports, the business environment of legal operators, into employment. I was watching today because I mentioned in my speech that we should essentially discuss the 437 press here, which is on the agenda of this meeting later on, as was the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Taxation, Customs and Lottery, which I am also a member of, whose chairman is also the promoter of this amendment. I did not find much in the minutes that this subcommittee, which should logically deal with this very intensively, would be the subject of some fundamental negotiations of this subcommittee. The Sub-Committee on Taxation, Customs and Lottery on the PSP website met three times, the first was the setting-up meeting, and in 2015, once, I believe, it was April 2015. I believe that if we are dealing with such a fundamental and highly discussed amendment to the Lottery Act, I wonder why this is not more concerned with the committee, virtually. The subcommittee, which I would say, would be almost uninterested to see at the conference that it held in the Chamber of Deputies under my auspices of the Union of Industry, where again these committees and subcommittees, which have had this issue directly on the agenda, put their hands away from it. That was a big surprise for me. I hope that this government amendment will not be the case and committees and subcommittees, as my colleague Šincl has already announced here and called for the committees to really deal with this, so I am adding to his appeal. The new legislation in lottery and betting games transmits these fundamental innovations along with these shortcomings. First, a register of players and a register of excluded persons. This is a very effective tool to solve the problem of addicts and this completely suits the meaningful fight against pathological gambling. However, the law beyond this effective instrument contains a number of other, say debatable restrictions - opening hours, mandatory breaks in the game, slowing down the game - which will only drive players away from legal operators into the black zone, where they will be able to play unlimited without these restrictive restrictions. Second, the monitoring system. Here's the parallel with the electronic sales log I mentioned earlier. Lottery law assumes some sort of watchdog in the form of a comprehensive monitoring system. However, this system is not yet in the selection procedure and in the light of the development of electronic records of sales, respectively. the examination of the amendment to this Act and its entry into force, it will not be possible until the adoption of the law to issue a tender. How, then, do we adopt a law that, in many provisions, refers to a monitoring system and various non-existent registers? Third, the decrees of cities and municipalities. With the Czech Republic, the European Commission is led by EU Pilot, which mainly addresses the unpredictability and discriminatory conditions issued and issued by generally binding decrees of cities and municipalities regarding the regulation of lotteries. There is a discrepancy between the issuance of the authorisation by the Ministry of Finance and, consequently, a collision in the event of the adoption of such unimaginable decrees leading to the revocation of the authorisation issued. The cancellation of permission is the subject of possible disputes against the Czech Republic. The new proposal for an operating law again allows for the withdrawal of the authorisation and, in the event of future non-compliance with the wording of the generally binding decree. Fourth, zero investment security. The new law thus gives zero or slim predictability. On my turn to meet representatives of the Confederation of Industry, various economic chambers and industrialists, I hear mostly that they want to know their future, i.e. tax predictability. And here, the tax predictability is volatile. Once again, in the context of press 437, which we are not discussing now, but is very closely related to this amendment, and in the further discussion of this press, I assume that it will be here tonight, you will find, colleagues and colleagues, that higher taxes are proposed there than in this amendment, which I do not really see as logical. This is what's happening here to open scissors between legal and illegal markets. If we leave the illegal market as it is, he's going to have zero taxes and we're going to make it harder for the legal market, which I'm not at all interrogating to develop gambling in our country, but let's take a realistic look at it. It'll lead to it moving into a gray zone or a black zone. I'll wait for my colleagues to take care of this next door. It's probably more important than this novel... We have discussed in this House more laws that we would make, our Dawn Party, where your arguments from the Chamber of Deputies were that if we were to push something in this absurd direction, the RPSN will recall, it will move into the grey zone. And here's the exact same example. All of a sudden, it doesn't matter. So what I'm asking is, what changed is that helping to move this activity into a grey or black zone suddenly doesn't matter. [[13.00 hours]] Finally, the fact that the Act on the operation of gambling carries a number of restrictions and outstanding issues cannot in any way predict its impact, let alone in combination with the extreme increase in the tax burden or the tax burden that is planned - once again I mention printing 437, which first rises, and then, as I have become familiar with the materials, will be reduced. It is wrong to believe that such a radical form of regulation and fiscal prohibition in one will bring a desired effect, namely to prevent illegal business, effective and progressive tax collection and, last but not least, to resolve pathological dependence. Although the laws also have a number of positive solutions, this must be said and admitted, why not, their incoherence and incompetence will require a number of legislative adjustments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u7	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, it's 13 o'clock, time for lunch break. Colleagues, if you don't mind, I'm gonna let Mr. Fiedler finish his speech, and then we'll continue the negotiations after lunch break. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u8	These legislative regulations should be in line with the requirements of the lottery market itself and all its beneficiaries, whether they are municipalities, cities, operators, players, repressive elements, but they should also correspond to the demands of European law and case-law to protect the Czech Republic in international litigation in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u9	I thank Mr Fiedler. It's 1:02 p.m. and I'm declaring lunch break for lunch. We'll meet here at 2:30, and we'll continue to discuss the bills. Thank you, and I wish you a good meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Initiating the continuation of the session at an adjourned point in the merged debate, paragraphs 42, 43 and... No, 43, 44 and 45. To begin with, I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby and read the apologies that arrived today. Today from 17.30 for health reasons and tomorrow, 1. 10th, and Friday 2. 10. Also for health reasons, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes. Furthermore, today from 17.30 to 21.00 for personal reasons, Mrs Nina Nováková apologizes, today from 14.30 to 15.00 because of negotiations with the Albanian delegation, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes. Furthermore, today from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr František Vácha apologizes, today from 14.30 to the end of the meeting, Mr David Kádner apologizes for working reasons. Next - and I have already read this note once, I have it here twice - today by Friday 2. 10. for health reasons, Mr Petr Adam. Furthermore, from 14.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová apologises. We will continue the debate. Mr Fiedler and Mr Hovorka have a point of fact, duly signed up for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u11	Colleagues and colleagues - thank you, Mr President, for the floor. There's not much of you here, I'm not gonna stretch it out. I just wanted to respond to a colleague of Fiedler. I'm not going to repeat why the Free Testament does, why not, why there's no Internet gamble. It is because of the notification and because it is not the holiday that the Member refers to, which the ministry allegedly gives the new to gamblers and gambling operators, so that the holidays are not there, that is why Free. I just wanted to point out that my colleague, Fiedler, is part of the budget committee, but he does not listen there. There I signalled the date of the subcommittee on taxes, duties and gambling, and subsequently I signed an invitation which he certainly already has, and on 13 October this subcommittee is going to sit down and it should discuss the amendments that will come to my amendment, and it should also discuss the new gambling law that is being discussed at first reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u12	Thank you. Mr Fiedler has a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u13	Thank you for the floor, just for a very short time. I understand that the subcommittee meeting three times in two years is something to comment on and as if to justify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u14	Thank you. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, now duly applied for. Mr Adolf Beznoska will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u15	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I welcome the efforts of the Government and the Ministry of Finance to systemically regulate gambling and gambling operations in the Czech Republic, because the law that has been in place since 1990, in the time of early capitalism, has inadequately adjusted this area and, moreover, has enabled public opinion to be influenced by gambling money to companies that have been gambling. I have a personal experience with that, for example. in a smaller village with 1,750 inhabitants, these residents, including women and infants, were able to plant on five slot machines in six years 9 million. Crowns. I would like to say, however, that I was struck by the information that the law, the House press, which is the main one, means 578, so at the time it came to the government, the resulting resemblance changed by more than one third of that law. This is quite serious information, and because it is a very technical law, it would be good if we got information on how much or how specifically and what changed in that law against the original version. And it is because, of course, the RIA, impact assessment, and the resulting proposal - and of course, the government has the right to adjust the proposal - is how different it is and how different the things that have appeared there have been compared to what has been passed by the Government's Legislative Council or by commentary proceedings. I draw attention to this for one important reason, because I still have an issue in my vivid memory when the Czech Republic lost its arbitration with CME and had to pay more than 12 billion. Crowns. If I have the correct information, the Czech Republic is being sued by Senator Valentina and represented by Senator Valenta's party has a reputable law firm, which has just recovered the amount for the CME. So I recommend preliminary caution and settlement of those changes that have not gone through proper commentary proceedings and the Government's Legislative Council. From these comments, I see a significant reduction in the time of the gaming space from ten to three years. Here I would like to ask if this matter cannot give rise to a problem in the event that the Czech Republic is attacked from the point of view of some investment protection and from the point of view of the agreements it has concluded, international agreements, because, of course, the counterparty who is suing the Czech Republic will use each of these grounds, each of these pretexts in possible legal disputes. I have also been informed that there are - and we have received this information from the Ministry of Finance - findings of the European Court of Justice concerning Hungary and now the Netherlands, which, in their argument, the representatives of gambling operators, i.e. the gambling industry, are using regarding the threat of arbitration. In its speech to the Committee on Budgets, the Ministry of Finance stated that it rejected this and had reports that there was no arbitrage in the Czech Republic. Personally, I recommend asking for these reports, possibly even specific findings, because there were no figures of what was specifically involved in those findings. [[14.40 hours]] I am not saying this because I would like to defend the gambling operator, but I am just saying this out of precaution so that the laws that we are discussing here, knowing that we have discussed them conscientiously, and voting to know exactly what we are voting on and not cause any damage to the Czech Republic. Therefore, please give us an explanation and justification as well as a comparison of what has changed in the government in a specific law and how different it is from the original version that has been passed by the Government's Legislative Council and commentary proceedings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Adolf Beznoska is now duly entered into the debate and Mr Ladislav Šincl will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. The topic of gambling is certainly a very medially grateful topic, in three related laws quite inconspicuous. so a short look, a short comment on this. The government has already declared that it will reduce the availability of gambling and change the level of its taxation. I'm not quite sure the way she chose to do it is quite right. For two years, the Ministry of Finance has been making up a package of laws designed together to create a whole new gaming regime. I do not understand how these laws are to limit the availability of gambling when they newly open the door to allowing for the first time in the history of Czech regulation of betting games to play any gambling, even the hardest, on the Internet. On the one hand, the government is poking around as it wants to limit gambling and casinos, and on the other hand, it enforces a law whereby all the games, the apples and the pears on different running reels, are legally placed on the Internet, so there will be no need to go to gambling and casinos. After all, today's youth, who likes to sit in front of computers, will certainly be comfortable. If anyone wants to argue that gambling under the age of 18 is prohibited, then I remind you that according to the proposal and the new gambling law, they can play on the Internet for a whole month without identifying them in any way. I'm afraid that for our cyber-intensive youth after a month, it won't be a problem if they start another account and continue to play. To be clear, and I should have mentioned this at the outset, as a man of right mind, I am far hypocritically saying how proudly we will all be fighting gambling, because I believe that even with the enormous costs that are being spent to fight gambling, we can cope with this fight. There is a demand for gambling in society, and the gambling is going to be played, it's just about giving it clear rules. These laws do not comply. To the gambling laws the Treasury has been messing with for two years. In this package, some essential parameters, including tax rates, have changed quite significantly at least three times on the way to government. However, these changes only partially went through a reminder procedure, some completely avoided it. Finally, even in the law itself, there is a completely different system of authorisation of gambling than was written at the beginning. There is a completely different system of taxation and completely different limits for how much can be played, or how much can a player lose in a single game. I do not want to evaluate which parameter is better and which is worse, I merely describe that the Ministry of Finance is not yet able to prepare clear legislation and is getting used to the practice that the law is sort of writing down the way it goes through the legislative process. If you look carefully at these three laws, you will find that they are not complete. From my point of view, they're written from two thirds at most. Officials of the Ministry of Finance, and apparently on purpose, some essential things, e.g. the technical standards of games or the system of registering players, they do not have them written down, and sometimes in the future it should be dealt with by ministerial decrees, and they are not even written yet. Another significant aspect that I would like to draw attention to is a proposal whose social importance is not yet anticipated. It is the introduction of the registration system of all players that will be registered by each individual player and each individual game. To put it simply, if the system existed according to this proposal, the state will know that Mr. XY lost a hundred crowns in the arcade at 11 o'clock. So do we want to record that every player who goes for a once-in-a-lifetime play appears in some kind of record? It is a huge invasion of citizens' privacy, and it is the first time in history when the state wants to regulate and record the leisure activities of its citizens. We may agree that it would be nice to record pathological players, prevent them from playing. Surely we should think about whether we want to and will record social welfare recipients, but do we really want to follow everyone else like that? That's the question. In some countries, the registration system works, the systems work differently. Personally, I don't have a very clear answer to that, but I feel like the government isn't quite clear on the answer either. Maybe she didn't even deal with this problem. After all, it may be possible to build such a system - of course it can be an interesting IT contract. I will return to the fact that, in the absence of the ability to define all the parameters of this system and the slowness of its implementation, or even not to implement it, it is clear that the laws cannot apply in the form they are presented. So, because the government was unable to prepare a new, comprehensive regulation of gambling in time, at least its Members came up with an amendment that, for example, increases gambling tax from 20 to 25 percent. Of course, I do not criticize the idea of moving this tax rate, but I smile a little bit at the thought - I read in the explanatory note that the petitioner basically writes that if the rate goes up from 20 to 25 percent, one hundred crowns of sales will collect not 20, but 25 crowns. In this context, I will remind you that this is not the case in practice. I'm sure you all know the concept of Lafferův's curve. In the report, I missed that there may be a special analytical department in the Ministry of Finance, a special department that should process the forecast of tax selection professionally and not leave it to such a simple and probably very false statement. Finally, even with the 25 percent alone, we do not have to deal in detail, because the proposals did not survive the first battle with the gambling lobby. The government coalition, perhaps - if I am wrong, correct me - wants to support completely different tax rates, or it wants to have two tax rates. One rate for soft gambling, which are numerical lotteries and sports bets, the other rate should exist for so-called hard gambling, which is roulette, card games and, of course, slot machines. The official reason for two rates is the risk of individual types of betting games. The Czech Government has at its disposal a report on the impact of gambling on society, the author of which is the National Monitoring Centre directly at the Office of the Government. It follows that the design of how it is built is completely untrue. According to data in the report to the government, only one percent of players depend on the number lottery, which is also promoted on Czech TV, but because this lottery is played by huge numbers, about one and a quarter million people, it is in the final statement about 10,000 people who depend on the regular lottery. However, I agree that the lottery can be called soft gambling, although in practice it doesn't really matter whether you are addicted to soft or hard gambling. It's the same as whether you're addicted to harder or softer alcohol, eventually comes delirium tremens. [[14.50 hours]] If you have odds to be soft gambling and therefore have the same rate as a number lottery, I have read that 18 percent of players depend on odds. So twenty times more than on sazka. Then I don't understand why both games should have the same tax rate if they are to be the reason and not the reason for the real risk of games. Maybe it's no coincidence why numerical lottery and exchange rate bets should have a lower tax rate. Because, and you all know that, the number lottery in the country is run by one strong and powerful financial group and the main sports betting company is run by the other. Sometimes it is difficult to explain and justify a more favourable tax rate in the gambling business if, in principle, a different company were the beneficiary of this advantage. The argument about tax rates according to the risk of the game thus clearly limps. Course stakes with the share of gamblers, and I remind you that there are 18 percent of them, close to games on slot machines, which have about 23% addiction. Moreover, since the odds are on the Internet, i.e. easily accessible to young people, and they are becoming more popular, it is clear that they are also very dangerous. Internet gambling with law or decree can be very difficult to eliminate. Weakness in gambling is also a fight against illegal gambling. Of course, the government has great powers here - but what's going on? Whenever in a village or village it decides to ban gambling or casinos, very often or almost immediately black gambling rooms, black machines or some clubs just for called, which circumvent the ban on gambling by adding to the game some more simple knowledge-based questions. So instead of a legal, even if not very attractive business, we're getting something on the background of a gray economy and crime. The Ministry of Finance has been fighting illegal gambling for two years, but in strong words, especially Deputy Minister Závodský, the situation is really different in the field. As far as I can remember, no one has ever been convicted of a black playroom or a quisomat, or, as they call it, convicted, or in some way punished. What does that short comment tell me? In the field of gambling, it is necessary to introduce clear, correct and modern laws, including rules that will include ways and rates of taxation. And despite the huge number of comments that have provoked the creation of a new lottery law from the workshop of Minister Závodský, I think that we should wait for this new lottery law and not address the situation with these unsystemic proposals, as they are presented to us gradually to the House. [[Deputy Minister]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u18	Thank you. The rapporteur shall be given priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond gradually to the comments of the speakers so that I do not have much. I'd like to answer my colleague Hovorka, he's probably not here right now. It's where I see it, because I've seen it from afar, why this law has changed, after all, even my colleague Šincl talked about it before it went to the government. In my opinion, colleague Závodský and his department made this law too hard and unrealistic in that first step. And I think that is exactly what this is about, an internal and external conciliation procedure, which is exactly what the Legislative Council of the Government is for, where appropriate, to catch up with such a situation and to adjust it in some way. Because it's not the aim of this law that we're here to say, and we're always making sure of it, to eliminate gambling and drive it into a gray economy. So I guess that's why these changes were there, and I feel that way, because I don't see them as completely fundamental, because the body, the main motto, why this law arises so that, really, after 20 years, a modern new law, which is partly being recruited from the laws in modern Europe to form. As far as Mr Beznoska's objections are concerned, I am quite certain that Internet gambling is a big problem. It really sounds like a paradox that we actually want to legalize the greatest evil, but it probably doesn't work any other way, because he's here and they're playing it, they're spending money on it, but it's totally out of state control, out of the tax system last but not least, but especially if it wants to regulate, if it wants to make order and possibly some hard penalties, then it has to be in some way in that law captured and registered at first. As far as player records are concerned, that's again, yes, that's perhaps a debatable view. Some colleagues insist on it and say it's the most progressive of the law. Someone's gonna not question it, but they're gonna shake their heads about it. It's probably not entirely clear, but it's really the only way to record the very troubled players who lose hundreds of thousands and beg their families, and then they get into these institutions for the very cumbersome, lengthy and long healing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u20	Thank you. Mr Šincl is now duly registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I duly volunteered to respond to a fellow Volný who responded to other colleagues. However, I want to say that my colleague Volný probably didn't understand where my reservations and complaints were headed. Of course, the law, from its original wording to today's version, recorded a number of changes, most of which were not perceived positively by the public. Some of them, of course, were dealt with in the framework of internal and external commentary proceedings. I am not talking about those that have already been discussed. My main objection to the current development of the bill is to change within the framework of self-regulation measures that were implemented immediately by its creators - I stress immediately - before the last discussion in the government, whose members were not brought to their attention according to my information. If it was something unimportant, I wouldn't comment. But these are measures designed to prevent harm caused by people who are prone to addiction, and measures aimed at reducing the risk of addiction. To these so-called Moreover, the law-makers strongly refer to self-limiting measures - I stress the strong reference - even in the explanatory memorandum, in the wording in which the law was before this change. I therefore consider it important for the Minister to explain these sudden changes, and I would also like to ask the representatives of the coalition partners whether they have been brought to their attention and how they perceive this sudden change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u22	Thank you. I have a factual point here, Mr Koubek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u23	Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Vice-President Bartošek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to follow up on Mr Šincl, so that it may be clear what we are talking about, because I have noticed the same thing that Mr Šincl here is talking about. I can fit in those two minutes, of course. In particular, Section 14. As I am aware, it was clearly stated in point 1 that in the case of gambling, for which it is technically possible, the operator is obliged to offer the participant gambling and to allow himself to take self-limiting measures. Period. However, another version has been approved by the government, which has been extended: or their settings individually reject. And if Mr Šincl here argues that the explanatory note does not correspond to the approved version, then allow me to read it directly on page 145, where it is stated, and I believe that the explanatory note is in clear contradiction with what came from the government: For reasons of consistent protection of gambling participants, the law sets out further requirements without which registration cannot be carried out. Registration cannot be done without setting self-limiting measures, etc. It can be done. It is possible because the law that came to us in the Chamber of Deputies has extended the possibility that these self-limiting measures can be rejected. That means I personally see here that the explanatory note does not correspond with the proposal that came to our government. And I think it would really be worth explaining, because I myself personally appreciated how there is very much justified in the recurring places, and very well, I would say, even the need for these measures and the strengthening of the elements that are laid down restrictive measures strictly and which may be chosen by the player. Therefore, given that the petitioner has put some work into it, then the resulting proposal, the resulting proposal approved by the government, does not answer, and if the truth is the fact that Mr Šincl says that other members of the government have not been informed about it, it is at least shocking to the extent of scandalous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u25	Thank you for keeping time. That was Mr Jiří Koubek with a factual remark. Now, Mr - before the Vice-President, the de facto remark made by Mr Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u26	Thank you, Mr President. This law, which is, of course, the first time in history, means that it took us 25 years for the Ministry of Finance to come up with a law, before it was "Law Hušák." I am surprised that Mr Šincl is not informed. Yes, it is true that the Ministry of Finance mainly wrote with the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister made various proposals directly to the government in terms of interruption of the game, maximum losses, establishment of gambling rooms, maximum amounts, length of one game, and even government negotiations were interrupted, and we were all ministers there. Yes, the Prime Minister contributed directly to the government with his proposals for a compromise. So I think you've been briefed at the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u27	I thank the Vice-President of the Government. Another factual comment from the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek, will be prepared with priority rights by Vice-President Bartošek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u28	Thank you for the floor. I must say, as a memoir, it is quite unfair to blame the Ministry of Finance and the previous ministers for not proposing a new lottery law for twenty-five years. The Ministry of Finance has tried this several times in the past, and ministers from various political parties have tried to do so. Yes, it has always happened that when approved in the Chamber of Deputies, the coalition of Sazka and Synot and other companies has more Members in the Chamber of Deputies than any current government coalition has. That is why this law has never been passed. That's right. But it is not true that the Ministry of Finance has not tried to do so, and it is not true that some ministers, including Prime Minister Sobotka, have not tried to do so, including me in recent years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u29	Thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And Vice-President, before I give you my word, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a delegation from the Committee on European Integration of Albania led by Madam President Majlinda Brega came to see us at the gallery. Ladies and gentlemen, nice to meet you. [[Members rise - applause.]] Thank you, and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. To begin with, I want to say that I am a strong supporter of these three laws, because this is a truly revolutionary change in the area of gambling and its operation in the Czech Republic. I understand many of the questions that have been raised here, e.g. by Mr Beznoska, through the President. Indeed, gambling, as has been said here, is a very complex market area difficult to regulate. From my point of view, this law had to be introduced much earlier, because in 2013, the Czech Republic undertook to harmonise its law with European Union law by 1 January 2016. What has been said here, why this market has to be opened, is what the European Union blames us for the fact that in the Czech Republic only companies based in the Czech Republic and with 100% Czech capital can operate lotteries and gaming industries. And it is contrary to the law of the European Union. One of the pillars is the free movement of people, goods and services. That's why we have to open the market. It is indeed a position that we must fulfil. But there's one more thing to say. It needs to be linked to the fight against illegal gambling. Nowadays, what is happening here, and especially in the field of online betting, is a great deal of room for illegal companies. This law allows companies from abroad to officially register in the Czech Republic, to legally operate their business, to be taxed here, but at the same time this law introduces effective instruments to combat illegal gambling. That's what needs to be said. That is why, in particular, I have such reservations about Mr Volný's proposal, where it is only about taxation, not about combating illegal gambling, because it is basically about giving illegals annual holidays and taxing legals even more. That's why I have one of the conflicts there, why I'm pointing it out. It is very difficult to want to regulate gambling and prevent some people from gambling without introducing evidence. It's about every person in this country should have a player card. Now let's talk about what she should be like. Personally, I think that a single identification might be enough for a citizen's ID with a chip, not to equip the citizens of this country with another card. It's about a technical solution that can actually be implemented. Yes, there will be a monitoring system, and there are reasonable concerns that we will not have another big brother who can see how many bets and so on. On the other hand, it must be said that without having this monitoring system as functional, which is able to monitor who plays, we cannot separate people, and this is repeatedly mentioned, who are fundraisers in material distress or, for example, do not pay alimony or are in execution or insolvency. And then let's talk about who shouldn't be gambling in this republic. But I believe that this instrument is revolutionary and correct, because only in this way can we, as I said, separate, for example, people who are very problematic, receive material distress and benefits instead of giving them to families, lose. And why still a single identifier? It is mainly from the point of view of online gaming. Today, online bets are about 20 percent of the market. With a five-year horizon, online bets should be at 50 percent. It is a market that is unregulated, where minors, minors, have access, without being limited in any way. A gambling card is indeed a tool that protects your, my and other children of this country from playing gambling on their phones and tablets seven days a week for 24 hours. Yes, I understand criticism or comments why. Why all of you? But believe that this is a functional tool that will set rules and boundaries for gambling in this republic. At the same time, this tool is good enough to show players how much they lost, the current state of the loss. If their behavior shows signs of pathological gambling, the system will inform them to look for help to stop playing to simply distance themselves from gambling. Yes, I understand the right-wing spectrum that it is another tool of control and regulation, but believe that this moment and, in a given situation, when the Czech Republic is in a way Las Vegas of Europe, it is an instrument that is effective. What we're talking about is that the law has adictological brakes in it, which is very good, and it responds to scientific research and other knowledge. This is the advantage of this law that it really reflects what prevents a person from falling for gambling. That's another benefit of this law. But let us also discuss other things that have already been said here. If there has been a change in the course of negotiations with the government, this is new information for me and we should really look at this information. It must also be said that the negotiation of this law, and I am talking about the Houses of the Press 578 - there has indeed been a change of up to about one third of the parameters. [[15.10 hours]] What I see as crucial is that these changes have not been consulted with anyone and that they have not been further mentioned by the Legislative Council of the Government. And what has been said here as a legitimate concern, I share it to some extent. This is because, unlike the tax law, which is paragraph 44, this law will have to be notified. If the set parameters are set wrong and this law is not notified, it will return to the Chamber of Deputies and we will deal with it repeatedly. And I think it is in the interests of the Czech Republic that this amendment should be adopted and notified as far as possible without a problem. That is my reservation on this procedure. The non-standard 11-hour discussion at the Legislative Council of the Government, and the discussion associated with it, also suggests that the notification of this law at European Union level will not be a simple process. Even from this point of view, and I am in favour of sending these prints to the next reading, it is necessary to look at the law. Next thing. Let us talk about the proposed rate of taxation. I have repeatedly asked the Ministry of Finance for the case-laws that have been raised here. To be fair, then Deputy Secretary Hornochová sent them to me, it was promised that you would get them too. It's an opinion that's vague. There is neither a signature nor a number of the case-law, which refers to the fact that there is no arbitrage in the Czech Republic as a result of a high tax increase. This means that I would expect the Ministry of Finance to provide a basis on which we will decide that the Czech Republic will not be forced into arbitration before the European Court of Justice at the time when taxes are raised, as happened in the case of Hungary or Holland. And once again, I consider tax increases to be a regulatory element of gambling, but it is essential that the Czech Republic is not driven into arbitration. I think that this lottery law, despite the reservations I have about it, will benefit this country and solve the issue of gambling in the Czech Republic. It must be said that the regulatory elements that are in place will lead to the fact that the number of slot machines in the candy shops will actually decrease, at the petrol stations. The availability of gambling will be reduced and the player card will prevent youth and children from being threatened by gambling and pathological gambling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u31	I thank Vice-President Bartošek for his performance. Now, with proper application, my colleague Karel Fiedler. Mr Tomio Okamura will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u32	Thank you for the floor. Although I am more or less logged in with a proper application, I will still respond to the factual remark made by the rapporteur, Mr Volný, who once again mentioned the tax holiday. I am afraid that this is an absolute misunderstanding on the part of the Volný Member, and it surprises me particularly with the petitioner of the House press 437. I thank Mr Bartošek for his speech. It is obvious that Bartošek's colleague is very well on the subject and is very concerned with it because he basically confirmed what I am going to say. He said it before me. Tax Holidays - Why Do They Move? It is because this amendment, as promised and as I said in my opening speech, should have already been valid from 1. 1. 2016. She will pay a year later - 2017. So the unsolved state is shifted by the fact that what was promised by Deputy Minister Závodský was not fulfilled. And that's where tax breaks are created for illegals, because even the House press 437, which was submitted by the Volný Member, doesn't address illegals. When I was talking about extending tax holidays, I was talking exactly about the fact that the operators of illegal gambling do not pay taxes, they will not pay them even in 2016. And as was said in my previous colleague Bartošek's speech, who expressed doubts as to whether the notification would go smoothly and whether the proposed term of validity of 1. 1. 2017 will be valid, so it may even happen that tax holidays will extend even longer. Here's the explanation for tax holidays. And I really have to repeat what I said once before, and it hasn't been understood - electronic sales records are headed for illegals. Why aren't amendments to the laws of the House press 437 pointing at them without amendments? There are some. And the House press 578 and the laws related? On the one hand, we're going to say how we're going to chase all the innkeepers to show sales, which is quite right, and I'm not going to dispute that at all, and on the other hand, to those who do it illegally and are far more dangerous to this company than the legal that also has negatives, but, as we've already said here, it's just a phenomenon that we can't solve if we nail it here, so it grows even worse here, so it doesn't solve it. Here is my complete agreement with my colleague Bartošek and he has an absolute disagreement with Mr Volný that this is not a tax holiday. Acting. They are extended if there is no modification of the House's press 437, and it is possible that they will be extended if the deadline, which is now set on 1 January 2017, is not reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we continue the debate, I will read the note. Today, from 5:30 p.m. to 21:00 p.m., Mrs Nina Nováková apologizes for reasons of work. And now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, every standard that regulates gambling at least a little, I mean, first of all, slot machines, is good and deserves some support. On the other hand, please do not lie that the government's proposed restriction would actually solve the gambling problem. No, it won't. Unfortunately, as with alcoholism, there is no moderated drug use in the case of addicts. The only solution is absolute abstinence. It'll be confirmed by experts, just ask, for example, the Chief of Bohnice Psychiatric Hospital Karel Nešpor. Whether people lose in vending machines after smaller amounts or cost more gambling taxes does not mean that people will not lose or that they will not depend on the machines and that it will not be possible to lose the whole payout or social benefits within a few hours. I see as if the efforts of government MPs to do something about gambling, but it seems to me more like an attempt to accommodate the gambling lobby in the sense of meeting social demand, but at the same time we continue to legitimize gambling, because we actually support it. It is certainly not about trying to solve the problems of the government coalition. And if so, it's a total ignorance of practice. It's like saying "yes, let's sell heroin, but only a kilo per person." Or to tell those who are addicted to alcohol that we're going to ban large beers and sell them only small, so instead of five large they're going to have ten small beers. It may just take a little more time. The only solution is an absolute total ban on slot machines, video lottery terminals and their internet equivalents. That's what I heard here in the discussion of government MPs that perhaps Internet gambling can't be banned. That's absolute nonsense. Let me give an example of child pornography that, of course, it can be regulated on the Internet if we decide to regulate these phenomena. I have already submitted a law on the absolute total ban on slot machines, videolotery terminals and their internet equivalents in the House for discussion and has been waiting for a year for discussion and the government coalition ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL is deliberately blocking this bill. [[15.20 hours]] Literally on purpose. This is incredible how this government coalition of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL behaves. For a year now there are laws, not just this, for discussion, there is a law waiting for a total ban on slot machines in the Czech Republic, and here I witness some comedy, as if something was regulated here, and in fact it is supported. And the fact that I am already waiting here and waiting, not just me, but also others from the opposition, for our laws to be discussed publicly at all, is not really democratic. And I think the aim is for us opposition Members to be silenced by the government coalition of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement. That is why our laws will not reach the plenary on purpose, so that even the public will not know our arguments. The vast majority of our citizens, ours and your voters, want a total ban on slot machines, videoloter terminals and their internet equivalents, because everyone pays for social benefits. And I'm just saying, according to the statistics, and I know that the statistics are different, but plus or minus are in the same spirit, the revenue from gambling is states, i.e. For example, municipalities, CZK 8 billion, but the expenditure of the state, i.e. all citizens of the Czech Republic, for the damage caused by gambling is at least CZK 15 billion. The difference is therefore around 7 billion and these billions are paid de facto by all non-participating citizens, all of whom are paid out of the Czech Republic's budget. Of course, only gambling companies make money. So summarized and underlined, my goal, and the long-term goal, is, and this law here in The House has been lying for a year now, an absolute total ban on slot machines, video lottery terminals and their internet equivalents, but I see that despite this government coalition of ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement, which, on the contrary, supports gambling, otherwise we would ban it, just as child pornography, so in fact the actions of this government are exactly the opposite. And I hope that citizens of the Czech Republic will not fall for this scam. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u35	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate seems to be going on for a long time. In order not to block any more points, I would like to propose that we interrupt this point by this Friday at 9 o'clock so that we can focus on other titles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u37	By Friday, 9:00 in the morning? I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u38	By Friday, 9:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u39	Thank you. It is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. Do you want to clarify this procedural proposal, Mr President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u40	I want to make another procedural proposal, i.e. an amendment to this proposal. Since we're going to vote, I'm asking you, if you haven't done so yet, probably, yes, to summon everyone, and I'm giving an alternative proposal to interrupt this point for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u41	Interrupting this point for ten minutes, okay. We will therefore vote as the proposals have come. I'm gonna ring the bell one more time, and I'm gonna call in my co-workers from the lobby. I'm registering the check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. First, we will vote on President Kalousek's motion to interrupt... [[Noise and screams from the O.R.]] To interrupt this point to... Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u42	Mr Vice-President, as the author of this procedural procedure that we used against the opposition when we were in the government, and now the government is using it against the opposition when we are in opposition, which I do not criticise, the vote first is on the counterproposal of President Sklenák. If it is not adopted, then the original proposal by President Kalousek will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u43	Okay, we'll proceed this way, but it wasn't contradicted. So first of all, I'm going to vote on interrupting this point for ten minutes. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of interrupting this point for ten minutes. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 179. Registered 137 Members, for proposal 48, against 25. This proposal was rejected. I will now vote on the suspension of this point by 9 a.m. on Friday. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 180. Members and Members are registered 140, for proposal 59, against 68. This proposal has been rejected and we continue to discuss this point. Do I note Mr Chalupa's factual comment? It's not so, so I'm going to delete the de facto remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u44	We continue the debate with the speech of Vice-President Jan Bartošek. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it won't allow me not to respond to my previous speaker, even though President Okamura is not here, through you. Although I understand the desire for gambling from this republic to disappear and not to play, it is a thing that in practice turns out to be dysfunctional, unfortunately, and if we go, like prohibition on alcohol, it only leads to the development of illegal gambling. These are things that are tried in practice. What is also recommended from professional circles is the meaningful and targeted regulation of this sector by both adictological instruments and brakes, as well as through tax policy. Sorry, Mr Okamura, through the President, I call your comments populist and abuse of this subject with a clear ignorance of this issue. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] You abuse the topic of gambling without bringing real solutions that will work in practice. That's just the way it is. Let us talk about the issue of gambling, which in itself is already complicated so that we can actually resolve this situation. Let's bring in a solution that will help regulate gambling. I have one more point to make, and that is the area of taxation. All over the world, gambling taxes are allocated to quite specific things, especially prevention and treatment, sports and culture, as a preventive tool for addiction. And I think that it is also necessary to bring into the debate that the money we obtain from gambling tax should not disappear in the state budget, but serve meaningfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u46	I thank Vice-President Bartošek. With the factual remark of Mr Stanjura, then with priority rights, Mr Kalousek and then further registration. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u47	Thank you for the floor. I have a question for either the petitioner or the rapporteur. When you look at the register of persons excluded from the games, I miss some types or bans, so I wondered if it was considered that besides helping in material distress, there would also be a housing supplement. It's a dose that's being used, and the amount that's being spent on it is growing rocketically, and we're very often trying to limit the business that's in the hostels together, and I don't think anyone who gets that dose should use that money to gamble. I think it's missing. I also want to ask why there aren't people in execution. Their creditors cannot get their money and, at the same time, the law, if it had passed in its proposed form, would have allowed those people who are not paying their debts to throw the money they have into slot machines and other gambling games. [[15.30 hours]] I think there's still a way to get it done. But I would like to know the government's opinion and ask why these troubled persons who do not fulfil their obligations or who receive assistance from their fellow citizens through, for example, a housing supplement, why they are allowed to operate and play under this bill - not to operate, but to play gambling. I don't think it should be like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u48	I thank my colleague Stanjur. One more factual point before my colleague Luzar, who is duly logged in electronically. So, my colleague, Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I also think that everything should be there. But I'd like to point out that the housing fee is not paid by the person who asks, but by the hostel owner. So that's where we'd have to vote for, of course, the wording a little different. But I understand why not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u50	Thank you. President Okamura. You're applying with priority rights? [[Mr Okamura: I no longer have priority rights.]] Sorry. If it's a proper application... [[No.]] So, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u51	I was asked here by the High Representative of the Government Coalition to give an example in which the country is banned from playing for money. That's Japan, for example. There's a law and no playing for money. So if we want to follow some of the world's most advanced countries that don't even deal with the problem of pathological players, there's no social welfare payments or anything like that. Yes, who wants to play, the barrier is high because they fly to Korea and stuff. It's far, it costs money. I just wanted to give an example, I give one of the most advanced countries in the world that doesn't have these problems. And I think there's more to these countries. Unfortunately, I don't have the list right now. So I'm just putting it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u52	Thank you. In fact, Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš are reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I think it's a good idea what Mr. Stanjura suggested. We pay 11 billion a year, I counted it in preparation for various migration acts. Here we go - 194,000 people get donations. Eleven something. So I'm sure we can. Of course, we've been thinking, but the problem is, there's no record of execution. And we've also been thinking, "Don't pay alimony shouldn't play." There's no record of that either. So I'm sure we're thinking about it, and we'd be happy to have a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u54	Thank you. Now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u55	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I could not resist the challenge raised here from the right that this debate would be long, so I decided to contribute a little bit to the mill. But with your permission, I'd like to ask my colleagues who were in Japan if the marble machines still work, when the Japonec are passionately playing slot machines, from which the balls fall, and then they go to change for money. And this business of its time dominated the Japanese mob quite strongly and strongly. But I confess, I haven't been to Japan, so I can't tell from personal experience whether this business business business still works there or not. As far as gambling is concerned, there have been a lot of words. And I confess, I'm happy for every law that tightens up this business, whether it's good or bad. But the first step is usually the hardest thing to do to confront the huge money that this business brings. Of course, what is the problem, and my previous speakers have already pointed it out, is the problem behind (a) registration, which means a restriction in the form of registration. I would like to point out here that this honourable House will soon discuss the IDs and their electronic chip, which remains very little used so far, and this could be the means to use and expand this chip. That means, without this chip on the ID, it's not possible for the slot machines to let this person play, and at the same time there's a record on the chip of whether or not he can play. I think it would be the ideal use of existing records. As for the problem that has been raised here, and I am right to the previous speakers that the classic slot machines, as we are used to - the wooden box with the lights, you pull the lever and the money will fall out immediately - they will be under considerable pressure and will be retreating very quickly before modern video lottery terminals, or directly by internet betting. Here I want to draw attention to this problem that is just ahead of us. It is even considered in terms of Internet regulation. This as a medium or as an internet phenomenon is quite a problem to regulate. These trends have already occurred in the world somewhere, or are being considered. And even in the preparation of this law, I picked up a similar topic in the discussion of some measures to block the Internet and similar matters. Here I confess that I am a great opponent of such interference in this free media. When you just open this Pandořin's box of regulation, I'm afraid it will jump very quickly to other types of regulation of uncomfortable content on the Internet. But what is and what can be solved, even if it may be a little more complicated, is what gambling itself is based on. Why is gambling on the Internet happening? 'Cause that's where the money comes from. And there's a way from those poor betting to those who collect the money. The journey is usually a bank transfer. Even if they are microparts, small amounts, yet somewhere there is a bank transfer, if you pay abroad, you have a foreign seat, some foreign bank, you pay by card directly, or you send it through an account, it always goes somewhere in the existing electronic payment system, which is already captured, regulated and registered in the world. It's a little more complicated to negotiate with banking houses, negotiate within associations, and so on. But it's the only way to cut the financial flows from gambling banned in a country into bank houses based in tax havens or anywhere. These banking houses will be informed that players from the Czech Republic, and identification is now technically very simple and obvious, from where they access parent servers, are from the Czech Republic, where it is forbidden to gamble in this way, or the listed companies that have this permit and can operate this gamble, and all other payments to those accounts will be blocked. They just don't get the money because they broke this law. It's more complicated to negotiate, which is why it's very easy to apply local sanctions in the law, we're going to hit those who are going to play here. I get that. But I would very much hate to see topics such as: we block the Internet, we eliminate, we record, we keep an eye on this medium. So I would rather that we really go through a deal with banking houses and look for an electronic way to block micro-payments abroad, which are already leaving the Czech Republic from this business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I'm registering Mr Kalousek's application. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u57	Thank you. Sorry. [[The MP brought a bunch of materials and ran to get a drink.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me just remind you that I was full of goodwill to get to the next points today, including the capital market, the budgetary determination of taxes, perhaps even on Mr Volný's proposal, but you did not wish for the interruption that I proposed. I fear that the discussion that I have prepared and which I consider necessary for this recodification will not allow us to discuss anything further today. So let me just point out that the Ministry of Finance has prepared three related laws, whose debate we have joined together, which, according to the coalition agreement, should solve the problems of pathological gambling and increase the tax collection from lotteries. From the European Union's point of view, they should, in particular, resolve the release of the seat for obtaining legal licences to foreign entities, as required by the principles of the single European market, also address the issue of the unpredictability of the adoption of generally binding decrees and the subsequent immediate cancellation of permits already issued. [[15.40 hours]] It is very important to consider the set of these laws as a compact whole that needs to be discussed, analysed and evaluated in the context. That is why I would like to say that the amendment called 'Free', which is discussed in parallel on this subject, should even be discussed at the same meeting, which only addresses the level of tax rates by completely unsystemic interference with lottery regulation, because it has no ambition at all to address the expansion of illegal operations, to address pathological gambling and not to address the European Commission's complaints. It's, uh, forgive the expression, just a primitive legislative instrument to save the coalition as part of the promised above-standard collection of taxes from the lottery sector. It's all the more fun that this is basically nothing more than a parametric amendment to the law that I, as Minister of Finance, have passed, because through the various donkey ears that are being put on me, history will never take away from me that I was the first to enforce gambling taxation after many years as Minister of Finance. And this bill is proposed in parallel by Mr. Volný to redeploy. However, let us focus on this systemic government proposal, which, unlike the Free Proposal, is indeed of great importance if it is of good quality. All three laws, as we have them here, have very interesting, for someone perhaps dramatic, for someone very funny development. Let us remember that, as early as mid-February 2014, this means that shortly after the government took up the mandate, the Ministry of Finance's management declared very strongly at its press conference the submission of a completely new lottery legislation to the government by the end of June 2014. This was also the case in the Government's legislative plan, so that the date of notification and the introduction of the comprehensive effectiveness of the new legislation on 1 was met. 1. 2016. Please remember that date, at the end of June 2014, the Minister of Finance was tasked. Of course it didn't. In mid-October 2014, therefore two months after the deadline, the minister convened only a press conference, where he announced the submission of a completely perfect lottery law. Again, that was mid-October 2014. However, this law, which actually existed in some form, had to be revised several times because of its fundamental shortcomings both technical and legislative. And with further delay, the minister presented it to the government in the form of another grand press conference in late December 2014. So there's been a six-month delay, but at least accompanied by a grand press conference, that now it's really delicious. It's great now. However, this view was not shared by a number of experts, including the Government Legislative Council, so for further absolutely fundamental shortcomings, the law had to be reworked with the participation of the petitioner, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, so its final appearance, as we now have it, is dated to 28 August 2015. More than a year after the government's legislative work, it was here. If Members of the government coalition or members of the government today want to reproach the opposition for some delay, I would like to point out that at the very beginning there was more than a year's delay in the Ministry of Finance's work, and I refer here to the open sources, when the Ministry itself promised first half of 2014, then the end of 2014, so that we could get to the anniversary of the Slovak National Uprising. Sorry, anniversary eve, August 28th is the final date. In the framework of the standard external commentary procedure, I am now talking about the final form of 28 August 2015, a large number of essential comments were made, in particular from the Chamber of Commerce, which deals with the regulated environment as a function. Of course, I wouldn't dare bother you with the comments of the directly regulated sector, because I understand that the law may not be pleasing to the operators of video-lotery terminals and slot machines. And he's not from liking it either. But the Chamber of Commerce is due by law and by virtue of its function - sorry. The Chamber of Commerce is appointed by law and by virtue of its function to make comments on individual regulatory standards. And given the comments it has made, it must be said that this law has no support whatsoever, although its impact on the budget of municipalities and cities, in sport, is quite essential to the business environment. I also think that the Chamber of Commerce cannot be suspected of some stubborn anti-Babishism. Let us remember that, to my surprise, but it is very legitimate, the management of the Chamber of Commerce supports electronic records of sales. However, it has absolutely fundamental reservations about this proposal, both in material terms and in terms of technical and legislative terms. I would like to remind you, therefore, that the Chamber of Commerce is an association established under Law No. 301/1992 Coll. and its primary mission is to promote and support measures that contribute to the development of business in the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Commerce, like me, as well as the TOP 09 MEP, welcomes the presentation of a new gambling law. We stress that it is necessary and stress that in the debate we will try to adapt it so that we can approve it together, because the new regulatory standard is indeed needed. It is also possible to support the bill, which amends some other regulations, that is to say, the amendment law. These legislation, together with the draft law, form a whole which constitutes a qualitatively new legislative framework for the operation of lotteries and other similar games in the Czech Republic. Gambling is a specific economic sector that currently provides employment opportunities to more than 60,000 people from various business sectors and contributes funds from lottery levies and income taxes to public budgets in excess of 10 billion. Crowns. The Chamber of Commerce, as it follows from the comments it has made in the context of the external review of the Gaming Act, supports the petitioners in an attempt to replace the existing, almost, as the Minister of Finance has mentioned here, the 25-year-old legislation regulating lotteries and other similar games, with a qualitatively new legislative framework. In view of the above, it should be noted that for the first time at national level, the petitioner has acceded to the legislative setting of rules for the operation of gambling through the public internet network. Let me just remind you that the first permit and only for exchange-rate bets was granted by the Minister of Finance Kalousek in 2007 and tied it up with very hard regulatory measures. Even so, it was encountered with a considerable disapproval of a certain part of the public, especially the then government KDU-ČSL. And when KDU-ČSL becomes a government party in a few months, I suppose, to support the expansion and system modification of betting on the Internet, I'd like to take a ticket to the front row. However, I consider the measure right, I will support it. [[15.50 hours]] We continue to welcome the fact of eliminating discriminatory and with the primary law incompatible provisions of the bill on gambling. There should also be an equalisation of national and foreign entities at tax level, where, according to the proposal of the Gaming Tax Act, there should also be an extension of the tax obligation to those who currently offer gambling in the Czech Republic without proper authorisation. As I said above, the petitioner's efforts to remedy the shortcomings of existing legislation can certainly only be supported. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if legislation is adopted in the proposed form, it may, in our view and in the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, lead to the strengthening of the tendency to meet the existing demand for gambling in the grey, unregulated and non-taxed gambling market zone. In this respect, it seems essential that the legal offer of gambling remains sufficiently attractive to potential consumers and that the operation of these games is economically viable for legal operators. Here I would like to suggest to everyone who is not from Brno to go to Brno to see, because the Brno municipal elections were marked by gambling, zero tolerance to gambling. Indeed, there has been a total ban - and few places you will find such Las Vegas as in Brno. Except it's all just a gray economy and the public budgets have nothing to do with it. Thus, only in fulfillment of the assumptions of sufficient control of the grey economy and the economic viability of the legal operation can it be possible to reduce the volume of illegal gambling supply while setting effective rules to protect their final consumer. We therefore make quite substantial comments and recommend that they be taken into account. In our opinion, this will help to prevent these shortcomings and application problems. Here, allow me now to sign up on behalf of the TOP 09 Members' Club on behalf of those comments from the Chamber of Commerce, which we consider relevant and we have the same. Thus, in general comments, we are particularly concerned with the lack of respect for the legislative rules of the government. We would like to draw attention to the fact that the way in which the draft laws which, according to the petitioner, form an integral whole of the regulatory framework for gambling are created and presented does not correspond to the procedures prescribed by the Government's legislative rules. I would like to ask the Minister for the President of the Legislative Council in the course of the discussion. This document is binding on - I mean now legislative rules - the procedure of ministries and other central government bodies in the preparation of legislation, as well as requirements relating to their content and form. At this point, it can only be recalled that, in accordance with the Government's legislative rules, the explanatory memorandum should include an analysis of the expected economic and financial effects, including an analysis of the impact on the business environment, as well as an analysis of the economic and institutional consequences of adopting the proposed legislation. In our view, this analysis was not included in the explanatory report on the Gambling Act and the analysis carried out in the explanatory report on the Gambling Tax Bill can hardly be considered as complying with the strict requirements imposed by the Government's legislative rules on this document. The analysis carried out focuses almost exclusively on predicting the impact of the proposed tax structure and tax rates on public budgets, while the analysis of the impacts on the business environment is completely absent. In this context, it should be pointed out that these impacts are difficult to model, provided that both standards are discussed separately in the legislative process. [[He drinks mineral water.]] Excuse me, please. And I'm already caught. In the context of the economic analysis of the impacts on public budgets, it was probably due to the different legislative timetable of both legislation that the petitioner did not take into account the changed regulatory conditions under which gambling in the Czech Republic could be carried out. There are a number of tightening measures in the gambling law. These are, in particular, new betting limits, time, number and local traffic restrictions, restrictions arising from set self-regulation measures, etc. which have not been taken absolutely into account by the petitioner in the analysis carried out. It didn't happen either... I completely understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the petitioner also has to leave the meeting room occasionally for certain reasons. But let me ask for an interruption until his return, because I can hardly imagine the parliamentary debate when he does not hear what we are saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u58	Okay. In that case, I shall adjourn this point until the petitioner returns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u60	Of course, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, no one is questioning that. So please, Mr. Chairman, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u61	Thank you. Please, it really wasn't an obstruction here, it was an attempt to prevent a misunderstanding. I think and firmly believe that both the government coalition and the opposition want the best standard possible. And we support the adoption of a new lottery law so that we can listen to each other and consider the arguments put forward. [[He's getting a new mineral water on the speaker's counter.]] Thank you. In the context of the economic analysis of the impacts on public budgets, it was probably due to the different legislative timetable of both legislation that the petitioner did not take into account the changed regulatory conditions on which gambling in the Czech Republic could be carried out. I have already said that there are a number of tightening measures in the Gaming Act, that these are, in particular, new betting limits, time, numerical and local traffic restrictions, restrictions resulting from the setting of self-regulation measures and a number of other measures. However, they were not taken into account by the petitioner at all, they are even ignored in the analysis presented. [[16.00 hours]] Nor did it take account of the different timetable of both related legislation, nor could it have occurred, of the fundamental changes made by the petitioner in apparent non-compliance with the legislative rules only after the external commentary procedure in the Gaming Act, when, regardless of the comments, he supplemented the draft auction law so called. allowances. If we leave aside the legal issue of this system, which essentially means charging itself access to administrative proceedings, then at least we must point out here that the auction system will undoubtedly have more than a substantial impact on the revenue side of public budgets, as well as on the costs of gambling operators. However, none of these impacts are taken into account in the explanatory report or the report on regulatory impact assessments in any way, nor are the related economic costs associated with the construction of technical systems and solutions, with which, in many places, the Gaming Act, the system enabling the registration of betting, control of gaming and financial data, the exclusion of players, etc., are explicitly engaged, either on the part of the State or on the part of gambling operators, who will undoubtedly incur additional costs in a causal context with the need to adapt their systems. In view of the fact that the petitioner did not submit for comments or draft implementing legislation, which the draft law on the operation of gambling envisages, even in a rather non-standard eleven cases, it is not possible, in the Economic Chamber's view, to carry out a relevant economic analysis of the impact on the business environment, and it is not possible, in any credible way, to predict the impact of the proposed legislation on public budgets or on the business environment. From the above, it is clear that the economic analysis presented can be considered incomplete and I do not believe that, on the basis of such an analysis, it would be possible to take a clear decision with all the information that they not only had but also had to be available. It also seems impossible for both us and the Chamber of Commerce to discuss and comment separately, particularly in situations where such legislation is constantly greatly amended. The explanatory memorandum shows that the petitioner views the proposed increase in tax burden in isolation, without any connection to other aspects of the whole process, and all charges, respectively, must be considered as other aspects. the financial expenditure envisaged by the Gaming Act. This is primarily - first - the cost of the equity capital of the joint-stock company for the newly founded entities, then the fees incurred to obtain the permit to place the game, then the security needed for the decision to grant the basic permit without which the business environment cannot operate, the bail required for the profit of the decision to grant the basic permit, which is linked to each gambling room, or the deposit required for the decision to grant the basic permit. casino, then it's an auction security that needs to be lodged under the auction permit procedure. It is therefore not possible to continue the legislative process separately and to set the structure and rate of the gambling tax in isolation without taking into account other requirements imposed on addressees of legal standards related to legislation. If you understand me, ladies and gentlemen, we want to draw attention to the reality here, and now we deliberately do not give it a positive or a minus sign, but we want to draw attention here to the fact that this new regulatory standard deals separately with taxes and tax rates and separately the small costs that regulation will bring to the operator, and that it can happen to us - I do not say that it will happen, but that it can happen to us - that the sum of these higher demands on operators will exceed the level of economic efficiency. Then, of course, the whole business will go into the gray zone because no one will work with the loss targeted. I couldn't find anywhere, and I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance - he can't tell him again. [[He's not present.]] Please let us interrupt before the Minister of Finance returns, because I have to shape the question and I have no one to talk to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u62	I take that, Mr President, as a procedural proposal. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u63	I think you can decide for yourself, Mr President. Your predecessor just did it. Until the Minister's arrival.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u64	Okay, so I'm interrupting the House meeting until the Minister of Finance arrives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u65	So since the condition for which I interrupted the House meeting has been met, that is, the presence of at least one minister, in this case the Minister of Finance, I will ask President Kalousek to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u66	I would just like to remind myself that I asked the Minister of Finance to hear my questions. I mean, in your absence, Minister, I have said here that not only we as an opposition club, but a number of comment points, including the Chamber of Commerce, feel very embarrassed about the quality and completeness of the impact analysis, especially where there are new demands on operators both in the area of taxation and increasing administrative fees and regulatory costs. I'm stressing that at this point, I'm not giving it a positive or a negative mole. I think it can be assumed and that everyone is counting on it, and it can also be wished that the demands will increase, but nowhere - and in this calculates my question - we have nowhere to grasp the complex view, that is, the sum of it. This means that we do not have a clear answer to the fact that when higher taxes are added up and higher costs related to administrative fees and regulations are added that we will not get through the level of efficiency. The moment we get past the efficiency rate, it's logical that the business goes into the gray zone because no one is going to run something that's going to be permanently loss-making. It is possible that it exists somewhere, we just did not find it anywhere, and I would therefore ask you to in the discussion whether at first reading or then in committees, because we will, of course, vote for the release of this law to second reading, if we could get a clear and convincing answer that the sum of the costs both from the point of view of taxes on the one hand and from the point of view of administrative fees and higher regulatory requirements will not exceed the efficiency limit for each type of game, because I am convinced that there would be counterproductive and that there would not only be nothing collected, but would not be less wagered. It would just go into the gray zone. In the light of the legislative rules of the Government, as well as the rationality of the following legislative process of all three of the legislation related to each other, we therefore dare to propose to the petitioners the compliance of the Gaming Act with the wording of the Gaming Tax Act and the Amendment Act, as they came out of the external commentary procedure, or at least try to catch up with the commentary procedure. You have committed yourself to putting in an external commentary procedure a standard that you have then added to your own ideas. Not about comments, but about your own ideas. In other words, according to the government's legislative rules, the comment points reminded a different text than the one you then submitted to the government. Some might even view it as fraud and circumvention of commentary proceedings. In any case, this is not the usual procedure and in any case, it is losing a lot of weight to the quality and credibility of the legislative process. Just submit a different text to the commentary procedure... Sorry - to submit a text to the government other than the one I submitted in the commentary procedure, to edit the passages other than those that were settled in the commentary context, it's just not fair and I almost think you could say that it's forbidden. After all, you have done so, and for this reason we necessarily have to regard this law as unnegotiated in due commentary proceedings and try to propose that in some way, some of the most appropriate way that the legislature will advise you to supplement this lack and make a commentary procedure a full part of the legislative process, because this is not the case now. Only in such a case, if this happens, will it be possible to assess the economic impact of the proposed regulations in a qualified manner and to carry out relevant and consistent economic and financial analyses on the basis of which adequate account can be taken of the effective tax and regulatory burden on the operation of lotteries and other similar games. I consider this point essential because it can, but may not mean better regulation and higher taxation, but total liquidation of a certain type of game and its departure into the grey zone. This is linked to the second comment made by the Chamber of Commerce, and we are referring to it, and this is the proposed tax burden, that is, the fact that the proposed tax burden is not based on relevant analyses. I have already explained here why there is an impossibility to assess the impact of the proposed changes on the business environment in a relevant way. In view of the principle of legislative restraint, according to which tax legislation should only be amended in the interest of the desired stability of legislation, provided that existing legislation is shown to have such shortcomings as to be considered necessary to replace it with a new legislation, the Chamber of Commerce allows itself to call into question the intention of the petitioner that only two years after the introduction of a comprehensive change in the charging of lotteries and other similar games in the form of a levy on the operation of lotteries and other similar games, there should be another revolutionary change in terms of the structure of the tax base and the level of rates. [[16.20 hours]] I will soften our position against the Chamber of Commerce's position. The Chamber of Commerce says that it fundamentally rejects this because, as I have already allowed myself to recall, it was Nečasův' government, the Minister of Finance Kalousek, who was the first to enforce lottery taxation. Until then, the legal situation looked completely different, and taxes didn't pay. And the condition lasts two years. Two years is extremely little to estimate in any longer series the smooth selection and impact of changes. The Chamber of Commerce therefore says: we do not agree with this, we would like it to wait a little longer, so that it is clear how the real tax collection takes place in this sector. We don't have such a strict position. We say yes, it is possible, we also want a partial increase in the tax burden, but it bothers us that it is not supported by analysis. It bothers us that it seems - please, that if we are so convinced of the opposite - that it is determined essentially by looking out the window. That, if approved in this way and with this quality of decision making and based on such documents or the absence of such documents, extraordinary losses can indeed occur not only in the business environment but also in extraordinary losses for public budgets. Therefore, we would like to ask for an additional analysis and follow-up of the comment procedure. In view of the incompleteness of the impact analyses carried out and of the interest that we may all have, we should at least do something about the stability of the business environment. Furthermore, the Chamber of Commerce would like to express doubts about the system according to which the gambling tax should be differentiated on the basis of criteria consisting in the profitability or social harm of the various types of gambling. First of all, it is not clear from the explanatory memorandum that the rate differentiation should contribute to the fight against sociopathological phenomena by joining gambling. In the view of the Economic Chamber, this objective can be achieved by a more appropriate choice of preventive measures and by building a system of self-limitation and possible intervention than by tax instruments. Here I would like to point out that our opinion is a little softer. We do not resist considering differentiated game taxation according to social harm, but again we lack impact analysis. We see much more emotion than rational reasoning. I would like to point out, and that is true, here I quote only the tax theory that the theory of tax law always refers to the difference in rates according to the criteria of social harm as non-systemic. I will compare it to something similar to what the Scandinavian countries are thinking about, and what, when we read, it does not seem systemic to us, and I firmly hope that the Czech Republic will never introduce - various food taxation according to the degree of harmfulness. Another tax would be imposed on healthy vegetables, another tax would be imposed on Babišův's sausages. Although this is an interesting idea, I do not consider it systemic or productive in terms of tax law theory. And I wonder if the same parallel will then have a tax on social harm in lotteries and gambling. The Chamber of Commerce is completely rejecting this, we do not completely reject it, we are just being restrained and we would like to base this on a clear analysis that will give rise to a really higher tax collection as well as social benefits. It is therefore important to consider whether, as a more efficient and simpler model, not to maintain the existing regime, because even the linear rate of taxation ensures that the operator of more profitable types of lotteries and other similar games contributes a higher amount to public budgets and bears a greater economic burden than the operator of less profitable games. Moreover, this principle is applied economically to corporate tax irrespective of the profitability of individual sectors. If the objective set out in the Government's programming declaration is to be achieved, i.e. an increase in revenues from lotteries and other similar games aimed at public budgets, then the question is whether, in the light of the above, there would be a more rational procedure in which the tax base will be extended by entities offering these games in the Czech Republic without proper authorisation. Already this procedure, while maintaining an existing system of one proportional rate, will undoubtedly lead to the fulfilment of the commitment arising from the government's programming declaration without introducing a complex, arbitrarily defined model of differentiated rates, which, as a result, can prove completely unfair... Colleagues... Colleagues from the left, I'm so sorry. Is it possible to be a little quieter? Thank you. On the contrary, the Chamber of Commerce would like to draw the attention of the petitioner to the fact that the proposed more than double increase in the tax burden would very likely lead to a reduction - compared to today's situation - of the collection of compulsory payments to public budgets as a result of the operation of lotteries and other similar games, i.e. the current amount of tax burden corresponds rather to the descending part of Lafferův's imaginary curve. The explanatory memorandum resulting from the projected decline in the market in the order of units of percent indicates a manifest understatement of the effects of tax regulation on legal operators. As a result, certain segments of gambling may, on the contrary, be talked about the drooling effect of tax. Again, this is the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce: We just want to make sure that the effect is not throbbing, and we have no impact study for this. Which I would like to point out is that the choking effect is something that... pardon that the grunting effect has already been declared unconstitutional several times and there are judicates where the Constitutional Court ordered this grunting effect of growth to be eliminated. [[16.30 hours]] The Constitutional Court also concluded in the past that the choice of a tax system or a burden must not interfere with property rights in such a way that the property situation of the entity in question substantially changes to the extent that the substance of the property would be thwarted, i.e. to destroy the taxpayer's property base. Here I would like to refer to the Constitutional Court's decision of 13. 8. 2002, registration mark PL US 3/02, and further that the limit of the compulsory public-law payment to an individual vis-à-vis the State must not take on strangulation, strangulation. The founding of the Constitutional Court, the strangling, the strangling, is found in the Constitutional Court's ruling of 18. 8. 2004, PL file mark, Constitutional Court, i.e. US 7/03. However, the Chamber of Commerce considers that the proposed level of tax burden combined with other requirements which have not been taken into account in the economic analysis, as I have already mentioned several times, is already achieving this intensity. Please, once again, it's a very warning reminder. If the chairman of Kalousek's opposition club were to call it here, you may feel that it is carried out purposefully within the political struggle of the opposition - a coalition. I am far from expressing it as strongly, because I am not convinced, precisely because I do not have the analysis as the Chamber of Commerce. But the Chamber of Commerce, as an institution, which certainly cannot be suspected of having a unilateral political stance, is convinced here that there is a strangling, strangling effect. I think that either we have to accept that comment in some way or disprove it in a credible way. But we can hardly afford to decide and say, "Let's see." He'll strangle himself or he won't strangle himself. This is neither fair nor productive to the business environment, and it certainly would not meet the objectives that the government has in this case. They are also, and one of my previous speakers talked about it, there are strong reasons to doubt the analysis on the basis of which the petitioner expects an additional tax return of 5 billion. Crowns. If the source of this additional yield should already be the lottery levy burdened by the domestic legal segment of the market, similar predictions appear unlikely, even unrealistic, since this level of taxation cannot be considered as a simple three-member. There's just gonna be some casualties. In the light of the above, the Chamber of Commerce therefore proposes in the draft law the existing parameters of the rates for each game and the differentiation thereof only after a thorough analysis of all variables, if this proves necessary in order to achieve the declared objectives. Achieving the objective of increased selection of lotteries and other similar games can be achieved more effectively by extending the tax base than by variations in tax rates. The second objective, namely the elimination of sociopathological phenomena associated with the operation of gambling, must, in the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, be achieved by means other than a change in the tax rate. In our opinion, it does not have the potential to influence the emergence of problem gambling, as is apparent from a government study dealing with this issue. And now allow me to make a few comments on the specific provisions where we have once again tried to proceed in such a way as to add to certain points of reference, so that we do not formulate our own comments, so as to make it clear that our view simply has a wider degree of objectivity. We have even forgiven some of our own comments for the sake of this strategy, because we do not consider them as essential as the ones I have quoted here and will be. We consider it completely principled to draw attention to the inconclusiveness of exempting small-scale tournaments and consumer lotteries. These are not considered by the gambling law at all as gambling not only from the regulation of the law on gambling, but also from the subject of tax, under the bill on gambling tax. This exemption may constitute a significant gap in legal regulation and an element motivating the addressees of the legal standard to circumvent the law. Its incompetence is further supported by related legislation, which does not lay down practically any rules and restrictions for the organisation of small-scale tournaments and consumer lotteries. As a result, the regulatory and tax conditions thus set up motivate the addressees of the legal standards to organise gambling in unchecked and non-taxed forms. Moreover, both of these categories do not constitute a marginal business sector where similar exemption could be justified. It's not enough already. And it can be assumed, and please let us think about it, that if it is thus legalized and approved by the exemption, that the number of gambling operations currently in operation will likely fall sharply and small-scale tournaments and consumer lotteries that will not be regulated will increase sharply and will even be exempt from taxes. I probably will - I no longer quote the Chamber of Commerce, so I will probably be accused of phobia, but consumer lotteries use certain types of business and this proximity of the petitioner to consumer lotteries seems very striking to me. Why should consumer lotteries be exempt from regulation and exempt from taxes? And I ask each and every one of you a rhetorical question, and I will then ask the Minister for an answer as to whether, as in many other cases, there is no clear conflict of interest and the nepotism that the petitioner applies to the business of himself or his loved one. Another reminder is the fact that neither the proposed modification nor the explanatory report nor the RIA report shows how the petitioner came to the coefficient for a fixed part of the tax on technical games, namely to determine the rate for gambling and casinos. This is stated, please nicely, in paragraph 4 of the proposal. In view of the unconvincing justification and in the context of the unsubstantiated increase in the rate of casino space, it is evident that, contrary to the information presented by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance at the end of last year, a multiple increase in the tax burden is proposed. It is not clear why the casino's gaming space should be subject to exactly five times the burden of fixed parts of the tax than the operation of gambling rooms, in practically identical requirements for the respective gaming spaces in the Gaming Act. This procedure irrationally disadvantages gambling operators whose operation is linked to the largest investment and operating costs and which are subject to the strictest legal and regulatory standards. [[16.40 hours]] Furthermore, allow me to formulate the fact that the proposal does not show whether a fixed part of the tax is also applied to technical games operated via the Internet or not. Similarly, it is not clear how the distinction and sub-location of online gambling currently operated under the individual tax bases will occur. For example, it is not clear whether a live casino roulette game, in which players participate remotely and whose results are transmitted via an internet stream, will be placed under a sub-base corresponding to a live game with a different rate than the same version of the game, where the result of the game is determined by a random number generator. This principle is contrary to the requirement for certainty and clarity of tax legislation. While maintaining any tariff differentiation, this system will lead to an attempt to sub-class the different types of games operated under the most favourable tax regimes. This undesirable effect can also be prevented by establishing a uniform linear tax rate, or we should look for another way to prevent this undesirable effect in the discussion. The definition of the deposit under the Gaming Act is not, in the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, and we are inclined to this view, in accordance with the description of the deposit provided in the explanatory memorandum of the Gaming Tax Act. Please forgive me. Sorry, just a tech plug. Colleagues, please, can someone get me some water? Thank you. I said that the definition of a deposit under the Gaming Act does not, in our opinion, comply with the description of the deposit provided in the explanatory memorandum of the Gaming Tax Act, according to which any performance other than the bet associated with it is considered as a deposit. In practice, this disproportion can bring a whole range of application problems. Therefore, we would like to recommend, and we will again insist on this in the debate, to clarify the explanations and to unite these approaches, respectively. definitions to avoid double interpretation and application misunderstandings. Furthermore, allow me to state a generally known fact or requirement that, if new terminology is introduced, it should be clear and should avoid somewhat misleading semantic abbreviations. Both parts of the technical game tax sub-base are inherently firm, but this does not need to be emphasised in the definitions. The gambling tax base cannot be proportional. In general, the fixed tax base is expressed either in currency units, i.e. in koruna, or in some physical units, here in this case it is the number of halls. Only the rate of tax or component may be proportional, i.e. part, component of this rate, usually expressed as a percentage. The fixed rate or its component, if you want part, if you want the component, is expressed again in currency units, i.e. in crowns. Therefore, instead of the proposed terminology, the proportion of the partial tax base and the fixed part of the tax sub-base should be used, for example, by the terms of the partial tax base subject to the proportional tax rate and the part of the partial tax base subject to the fixed tax rate. Short-termness and language associations may not always be in line with the quality of the normative text. I do not think that this is an intention, I am more afraid that, as the external commentary procedure has been carried out not entirely according to the rules, there have probably been some misunderstandings in the internal commentary procedure, as I can hardly imagine that, in particular, the Ministry's legislative tax department would agree with these wordings. But I can be wrong, and maybe the Minister will disprove the discussion. We should probably know that the Chamber of Commerce is convinced that the relative rate of gambling tax should be uniform. According to the Chamber of Commerce and in our opinion, the petitioner did not convincingly justify the differentiation of the rate in the very values set out in the proposal or in what others. Again, I say: we do not defend ourselves in principle, we are prepared to discuss without prejudice the possible differentiation in the case of gambling, certainly not in the case of food or other examples that I have given here. But this differentiation, its scope, should indeed be convincingly justified. In this case, this is not the case. For the municipalities, the passage concerning the provisions of paragraph 7, i.e. the budgetary determination of the tax, will certainly be interesting. The change in the budgetary determination of revenue from technical games to the detriment of municipalities represents, in our view, an obvious injustice to legislation. In the explanatory memorandum, the change in the ratio is justified by the expected increase in the collection of gambling tax by CZK 5 billion. I highly doubt this volume, but please, let's just say there's going to be an increase. According to the calculation in the explanatory memorandum, the absolute amount attributable to municipalities would remain the same as it is under the current fiscal determination. In other words, only provided... If you don't mind, Mr President, I'll wait for my colleague Okamura to call.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u67	I'm sorry. Please, colleagues, I will not appoint specific sinners to transfer their phone calls outside this O.R. Thank you. Yes, you, colleague. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u68	One more time. The petitioner claims, and many of us doubt that he will raise 5 billion more in this adjustment. But only assuming he withdraws $5 billion, so the communities will be just like they are now. If he withdraws less than 5 billion, they'll be worse off. Even if it withdraws 3 billion more, the municipalities will be worse off than they are now, and I ask that local politicians, in particular, realise that, in addition to the undoubted burden that this sociopathological phenomenon raises on health care and crime, i.e. from central funds financed by costs, so the greatest burden associated with gambling sites and with everything that is happening around the halls, the municipalities obviously bear their costs. And we basically want to offer them a pigeon on the roof, which if he's really as fat as the promoter says he's gonna stay as fat as he is now, and they're not gonna get an extra feather. It doesn't seem fair to us. And I admit that it doesn't seem politically prudent to me either, because, as we know, where some regulation has actually succeeded, it has succeeded only because of the fact that we have acquired on our side a self-government that has seen some possible additional revenue in the budget or the possibility of its own regulatory powers. [[16.50 hours]] It is not clear from the explanatory memorandum what led the petitioner to change the current concept, according to which more of the revenue from the technical games is budgetaryly bound to the benefit of the municipalities where these facilities are located and where additional expenditures are required, for example... so, and now I am... sorry - for ensuring public order, for example, if this in the causal connection with the operation of those facilities is threatened. [[Searches in the background]] Moreover, the reduction in the percentage attributable to municipal budgets occurs paradoxically in a situation where the Gaming Act transfers a number of competences to the municipal authorities, including administrative proceedings, to permit the gaming area, in a situation where, on the contrary, the existing ratio should rather be increased in favour of the municipalities at the expense of the state budget. It is gratifying that not only we, the political party, which recognizes the principle of subsidiarity and we are working closely with the Mayors movement, so it will not surprise us, but also the Chamber of Commerce fundamentally does not agree with the change in the budgetary determination of taxes disadvantageing the municipal budgets in favour of the state budget and insists, in accordance with its previous comments on the maintenance of the current situation as regards the construction of gambling tax as well as its budgetary determination. Even the Chamber of Commerce formulated this as a very fundamental comment. Yet this comment was not answered by the government. It seems that when ČSSD, KDU-ČSL and ODS voted in the government for this proposal, the interests of the municipalities were not a priority for them. This structure does not make it possible for municipalities to improve. We think they're gonna get worse, and if things turn out the way the promoter assumes, they're gonna make a big improvement in the state budget, and the municipalities stay on their own. But that's the ideal situation that we don't think will happen. In our view, no one can improve, and in an optimal situation, the state can improve and the municipalities will have less. This will be the result of this construction of the budgetary determination of taxes. Furthermore, allow us to join those who believe that there is insufficient use of instruments to combat illegal supply. The draft amendment law, contrary to the explanatory memorandum to the tax law, does not contain amendments to related regulations that would introduce effective instruments to combat illegal gambling supply. This is considered to be very risky especially in the assumption that, with the increase in tax burden and the increase in regulatory costs, the incentive to escape into the grey zone will logically increase, and even if it is not a liquidation, strangling, strangling, so it will simply be more incentive to escape into the grey zone, and yet, in our view, effective instruments to combat illegal gambling supply are not introduced. An example is, for example, the absence of an amendment to the Payment Act, which according to the petitioner is necessary to establish blocking payment transactions for the benefit of illegal gambling operators. This absence is all the more striking in a situation where the Gaming Act contains a number of restrictions and measures that lay down strict requirements for the use of individual payment methods used to grant gambling accounts to legal operators. Thus, in our view, it can be described as inconsistent in a situation where the use of payment methods in favour of illegal operators will not be subject to or otherwise regulated or sanctioned. In general, it can be pointed out to the petitioner that stricter regulatory and tax adjustment clearly strengthens the tendency to circumvent established regulation and to use legal gaps in such situations, to which a new regulatory framework for the operation of gambling can undoubtedly be included... [[Relax because of the rest of the room.]] Okay, I'll wait... All the more so, the need and importance of all the mechanisms and measures by which the offer of illegal games can be reduced and sanctioned is increasing. Allow me also to make a comment on consumer protection. Now just for the sake of orientation in my speech, I am talking about the various provisions of the amendment law. As soon as my colleague Okamura gets off the phone, I'll get to the next provision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u69	I'm very sorry. I'll be addressed by now. I ask my colleague Okamura to transfer his calls to the O.R. Thank you. It is one of the elementary political cultures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I would, of course, wait. The bill on gambling excludes consumer competition from the scope of this law, with the fact that their regulation should continue to be regulated only by the Consumer Protection Act. However, this amendment contained in the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act must be regarded as completely inadequate. The law contains... Well, consumer protection and the consumer lottery, and the minister is leaving. Maybe to listen to it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u71	I'm sorry. The Rules of Procedure don't say he couldn't use the phone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u72	I will ask the rapporteur to be so kind as to mark this part in his groaning to the Minister concerning a matter where I believe that he can actually represent an extraordinary conflict of interests between Minister Babiš and the entrepreneur Babiš. I think the Chamber of Deputies should watch out for that. The Consumer Protection Act contains only a general prohibition on consumer competitions where the price of transaction costs exceeds the price of the usual, not an adjustment which would prohibit all consumer competitions where the price of goods or services exceeds the price of the usual. At the same time, there is no adjustment to how consumer competitions will be handled in cases where they will use an element of chance to identify winners. Such competitions should be considered as gambling from the logic of the matter and, as such, should be prohibited in accordance with § 6 para. 2 point (a) of the Gambling Act. However, that interpretation does not correspond in a fundamental way to the provisions of Paragraph 2 (2) of the EC Treaty. 3 Act on Gambling, which completely exempts consumer competitions from the scope of this Act. Both the Chamber of Commerce and the TOP 09 are of the opinion that if consumer competitions are organised to promote the sale of goods or services and the price of such goods or services does not exceed the usual price, then there is no need to consider these competitions as gambling. However, if the price of goods, services or transaction costs associated with participating in this competition exceeds that price, then part of the price above the usual represents a deposit under the Gaming Act, and if the winner is decided by chance or unknown circumstance, then all the signs of gambling are fulfilled. The Act on Gambling, as well as the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, should be based on this premise. [[17,00 hours]] We recommend uniting both definitions and continuing to consider consumer lotteries of the type described above as gambling. Once again, we believe that this is essential, and once again, we do not think that it is a coincidence that it is this petitioner who is trying to remove consumer competition from the regulation that he proposes. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if there's only one colleague or other colleagues registered, but I'm afraid I might not be able to get another word for them because of me. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I wouldn't want that. Really. So if you vote now, I'll end my discussion post halfway through the speech and report to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u73	I thank President Kalousek for his speech. Another duly applied for is Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was afraid that I would not be able to speak for a long speech by my previous speaker, but I received the honor. I confess, with great enthusiasm, I have been watching what has been happening since the last parliamentary elections on gambling. hazard was one of the major electoral themes of our political opponents, especially the ANO movement. The fact is, and allow me first a brief look back over the past months, or actually a year and three quarters, because how many - October, November, December, January and half February - in 4.5 months, this government will be around halftime since its appointment, if I am not mistaken. And the issue of gambling is one of those symptoms, just how this government works. A big political ruckus, a big topic during the election campaign, then really for apparently eye voters a delightful performance, which certainly left a deep impression. I wanted to be an optimist for a moment in the fact that there really is someone here who wants to get the gambling more under control, to set some rules that will push out this rampant habit. The serious person for me wasn't Andrej Babiš, but it was Deputy Závodský for me. This is the first name that has come up in this matter, and you certainly remember his wannabe serious appearance, especially in public and other media, how the matter will be corrected, how the rotten state will end on this item. Then as a member of the budget committee, another person who raised the topic, and again, it was a little bit less media hype, however, it lasted, was our colleague Fichtner with his novel and there I thought something was wrong. There, then, Mr. Deputy Minister Závodský went to the budget committee and I wanted to believe, and I expressed my support for him to come up with a proper, one proposal on how gambling in the Czech Republic should look. Another, that was already within the growing entropy, which is the degree of disorderliness of the system, occurs the name Volný, which I consider a bit risky. In fact, it is symptomatic that neither the coalition has agreed with each other in this punkt, but I will get to that yet, because this was no longer a committee meeting on this point. Otherwise, we have a great chairman of the budget committee, who has it firmly in his arm, but that was weird, as a dialogue deaf to mute or I don't know what I would call it. Deputy Minister Závodský stopped coming and all explaining Deputy Minister Hornochová came on stage. Well. I may have forgotten to mention that there was some sort of legislative attempt by the Dawn movement. I admit I don't remember who the president of the proposal was, and maybe it's not Dawn again today, and it's someone else. From the coalition, who was very involved, but it was the call of a lonely man in the desert, Mr. Bartošek was. So I don't know. We are being tested here because of the state of the Ministry of Finance, the risk that one of the kings of gambling in the Czech Republic will pay for the Czech Republic's capable lawyers and tie up the Czech Republic in arbitration, as has already happened in the infamous case of CME TV Nova, for commemorators or for all who watched it more or less live, and the Czech Republic, I remember, said 12 billion, I believe it was in quotation marks 11, only 11, but even if it were ten million, million, it was simply an outrage that took place here. So I've told you the names of the main players here. I don't know, I learned from the machine guns that the novel Fichtner is sleeping. There was a strange duel between the petitioner Fichtner and the rapporteur on the budget committee, and for me, the Deputy Minister of Závodský, in a neutral manner. In principle, Mr Fichtner put something forward, Mr Šincl's rapporteur argued, if I remember correctly, that there is a risk of arbitrage, because it is necessary to request notification from Brussels, Mr Závodský said that, I think, by the past Christmas, if I am not mistaken, and I would not like to spread inaccurate information, the issue of gambling is too much, so that by Christmas he will submit a completely new amendment to the law, however, that colleague Fichtner's proposal is consulted that he should fit in with the concept, but that concept, apart from some media abbreviations, has never been presented, nor explained. So it was just a statement. We in the Committee on Budgets have interrupted this issue in relatively combat voting so that notification is requested or clearly demonstrated that we are not in danger of arbitration in this punkt. Material, as it is unfortunately very often in risky matters, or there is a very common practice that we are not at risk of arbitration, was not presented, and so I take it that somewhere the novel Fichtner is asleep or asleep. [[17.10 hours]] As for the example of Mr Volný's amendment, this is just the culmination of the fact that Mr. Deputy Závodský has not submitted an extensive amendment to the Lottery Act and that the whole concept or idea of how to suppress gambling has shrunk to the fact that two rates of tax apply to the matter. Once again, there is a risk, and the Committee on Budgets has dealt with this amendment because it has not adopted a resolution because, in this strange ride in the direction of Mr ANO and their members of the Committee on Budgets, social democracy did not want to join either, and I suspect that the representatives of the KDU were present. The amendment, which was apparently prepared by the Ministry of Finance for Mr. Volný, was allegedly the result of coalition agreements, was therefore defended not by the Deputy Závodský, which I do not know where it fell to, but by Mrs. Hornochová. For the non-participating, I would just like to say briefly that it was really more of a cabaret than a serious meeting. A colleague named Bartošek requested written proof that there is no arbitrage at the time of approval of such an amendment. The Deputy Minister said there's no danger that they have everything in their hands and that it's just not a problem to send it to Bartošek. I feel like he doesn't have it to this day. I'm sorry, I had some urgent business, so I didn't hear his performance. However, Mr Bartošek then asked again, did not receive paper or a quick electronic entry or some document, but was given security. It seemed very strange to me that the Coalition Council had urgently met or whatever the conjecture body or negotiating body of the coalition was called. I really do not know, I quite agree with the part of the pre-election rhetoric of the ANO movement that it would be worth doing a qualified experiment and a good experiment based on analyses, supported by really solid legal analyses, including international law, to at least limit gambling in the Czech Republic. Instead, we've got some confused experiments here where the novel is prosecuting the novel. It kind of reminds me of the Road Traffic Act, when I don't know which of the following amendments we're going to be discussing at the same time in the Economic Committee. I must always go into that identification because instead of one plus the folk creativity of some Members, or even regions, it makes it really difficult to understand. And this is starting to be the exact same problem. If we cook up on road law issues, at least I hope it doesn't turn out to be arbitrage. Unfortunately, I would no longer be so sure about this issue, and in the extreme case, not only arbitrations can occur, but also other issues which, instead of reducing gambling, lead to the relocation of a part of the gambling, and it can be a significant part, to a unregulated grey economy, where it can be with far more fatal consequences than other laws. It could be super-support for crime, organized crime, unlike whether the innkeeper calls the Treasury to sell one beer or not, as you want to promote within the EET. Since I consider Professor Mejstřík to be one of the great personalities of the Czech economy, this is the first reading we are discussing here today, I would certainly not like to deprive you of his speech, his article on this issue. Firstly, identifying the problem of current legislation. The main legislative document governing the area of lotteries and other similar games is Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, hereinafter the Lottery Act, as amended. Since this Regulation has been in force since 1990 and has undergone only one key amendment effective since 1. 1. 2012, this is already an outdated regulation, which is not able to respond to the current rapid development especially in the field of modern technologies. At the same time, this law does not take into account the degree of risk of playing individual games and, last but not least, does not comply with the requirements of the relevant European Union directives. So here I would really support this, or it's a claim to support what I said, that there really is something to be done about gambling in the Czech Republic. In 2013, the European Commission initiated infringement proceedings with the Czech Republic under the primary law of the European Union - infringement procedure. The Commission sees in particular that the Czech lottery law for lottery operators on the territory of the Czech Republic provides for an obligation to establish a registered office in the Czech Republic and also prohibits foreign ownership participation from the operator. The Lottery Act, at the same time in its up-to-date version, thus infringes the principle of freedom to provide services and capital and the principle of freedom of establishment. This is a very unpleasant problem. In the past period, we tried to enforce that the money that is in gambling in the Czech Republic came from the pockets of Czech citizens and was actually made by the Ministry of Finance legislative attempt and it was enshrined in our legislation, so that we could at least partially protect the money and return to Czech households in some way through redistribution, etc. Czech economy and so on. Because the problem is that gambling is not a good commodity for citizens, it affects the poorest parts of the population very much. And it is the Czech Republic, which then bears the fatal consequences of gambling passions or desperate attempts by people to get to the money. [[17.20 hours]] Unfortunately, and perhaps it is also for YES Members, I do not know what they will say in the next parliamentary elections in the squares, but we really have a lot of European law tied up. We can't approve of what we want. We are very much bound not only in this commodity, but in a number of others. This means that we must measure the single European market. Not to mention tax competition and other competition, environment competition. In fact, there we must measure with the whole world, because we are living in an era of globalizing the world. I'm continuing with Professor Michal Mejstřík's stat. "For the reasons set out above, the bill on gambling tax, the bill on gambling and the amendment amending certain related laws began to be prepared. However, a set of these regulations with originally planned and European Commission declared effective from 1. 1. 2016 was approved by the Government and sent to the Chamber of Deputies only in July 2015. There is also a high probability of delaying the effectiveness of the above package of laws for 2017. Here is a reference to the press conference of the Ministry of Finance, the current state of gambling regulation 27. 3. 2015. In response to this risk and the associated threat to the increase in lottery revenue and other similar games for 2016, an amendment to the Lottery Act and other similar games was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament by Mr Volný, the 'Free' proposal, which increases the lottery levy by five percentage points to 25 per cent and doubles the flat fee for one day of running the slot machine from CZK 55 to CZK 110." In this punkt, I'll go to the bathroom. We asked Deputy Secretary Hornochová to fill in for Deputy Minister Závodský, I assume she is still a deputy, we asked if this economic approach would lead to the transfer of gambling to the grey zone, which means illegal gambling. We have been assured, not factually, but only verbally, that the Ministry of Finance has an analysis that it has thought the matter through in detail and that this situation will not occur. I'm continuing with Professor Mejstřík's stati. "The first proposal of the amendment to the Lottery Act and other similar games submitted by Mr Bartošek of 10 is from other key proposals in the field of regulation of the operation of lotteries and other similar games. 7. 2015, followed by 'Bartošek 2015A'. On the contraryVolný it aims at adjusting the factual characteristics of the business environment and tax issues. Mr Bartošek's second proposal of 20 August 2015, followed by 'Bartošek 2015B', is already more complex, i.e. counts on how to adjust the environment and bring Czech legislation into line with EU legislation..."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u75	I'm so sorry. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to transfer your calls to the galleys. Thank you. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u76	I also believe that the governance of this coalition is desperate, as I hear from the machine guns, but unfortunately the voters have not yet figured it out. It's probably gonna take some inertia. If you don't mind, I'd continue. At this Bartošek 2015B Professor Michal Mejstřík has a footnote. "The amendment proposal by Mr Jan Bartošek on the proposal by Mr Jan Volný to issue a law amending Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, as amended, House Press No. 437." Therefore, I will repeat again, in contrast to the Free proposal, it aims at adjusting the factual characteristics of the business environment and tax issues. The second proposal, as I have already quoted, by Mr Bartošek of 20 August 2015, is already more comprehensive, which envisages the adaptation of the environment and the alignment of Czech legislation with the legislation of the European Union, as well as an increase in the proportional and firm part of the sub-base of the contribution from VHP and other technical gaming facilities. VHP is a winning instrument. So it's from the winning instruments. I'm just saying that you may not be interested in some of the issues, but I'm not loud here either, I tolerate when someone is talking. You know, the problem is, here, like breaking the limits on mining fees, somebody's gonna pin something, emotionally, spontaneously, without hinting at the consequences of their behavior. And if everyone had been silent and the mining fee had increased to ten times as much, with which the proposal was made by the Minister of Finance, you have nothing left to save in both OKD and Mostecký coal. And it's going to be similar here. Someone will have to then eventually, if we approve a novel here that will not be thought out, someone will have to deal with how to eliminate the vast extent of black gambling. So I really don't know. I mean, if I was in control, I'd think every step of the way, and I'd want to take responsibility for it. And with the utmost certainty that what I'm going to do, what I'm going to come up with, it's going to work. But I guess this isn't the case with some of the Social Democrats. I'm continuing the state of Professor Michal Mejstřík, if you don't mind. "The basic rules of the economic theory of regulation should be mentioned here, namely that quality regulation should be stable, continuous and predictable. The excessive frequency of change in imperfect regulations induces a significant regulatory risk. Frequent adaptation to changes in regulations is at the expense of adapting to market changes and is extremely costly. Entrepreneurs de facto set up the system in a certain way, followed by a shock with the need and cost of resetting." I'm delivering this system. I'm on it. "However, adaptation to dynamic market changes should dominate, as this is at the heart of competitiveness. Legal systems have already started generating so-called. feedback to regulatory contract branch, i.e. at the moment when there is a threat of breach of private property rights caused by imperfect regulation, which causes damage, persons operating in an environment of a better judicial system may begin to recover such damage in the form of compensation if they feel like a damaged party. [[17.30 hours]] The threat that the regulator will make a fundamental mistake, which will be very expensive for taxpayers, should lead to a much more conscientious approach by the state. Expected procedure, i.e. the approval of Mr Volný's proposal, in the event of its adoption of the new conditions and subsequent approval of the complex proposal one year later, does not correspond to the above-mentioned requirements for quality regulation.'; I believe that these sentences should be carved and not only in the area of gambling, but in the area of further regulation. I regret that many of my fellow Members, Members and Members of the ANO movement, have different views on the regulation of the economy and society in private, or when they act as Members and Members on television, and then, unfortunately, they vote for left-wing proposals for social democracy. And the other day, when I asked the Member why he was doing this, he told me that he was a member of the XY with his opinions on television, while he was acting here and acting as a member of the XY government coalition. Indeed, schizophrenia is moral as it should be, and I would recommend, for this royal statement in quotation marks, that you read the Constitution where you should behave according to your conscience. [[He gets a small bottle of water on the pitch. From the diaper, it echoes: Pure water.]] Thank you. I'd like to pour you all some fresh water. I will return to the state of Professor Mejstřík Michal. Two. The first point was to identify the problems of current legislation. Item number two - the problems of the current situation and the objectives that should be achieved. Before assessing the correctness of the settings and the regulatory potential to achieve the declared targets, let us provide several statistical data for the Czech Republic. - Unfortunately, I'm not able to project the graphs that are also shown in this state here. I highly recommend them. However, they compare the situation in the European Union in the 28th and the Czech Republic as regards the share of individual types of games in total revenue. This structure is significantly different in the Czech Republic compared to the European Union in favour of slot machines. In 2014 in the Czech Republic 54,5 % versus 21.9 % in the European Union in the 28th, i.e. in all states. There are references to resources. But surely those who deal in detail with gambling, so this will happen, if you have not already done so, you will find it. A colleague of Mr. Závodský, who seems to be drowning in the issue of gambling because he has not yet been able to prepare a comprehensive proposal for the Minister, I will recommend that he also pursue this matter. Maybe it'll speed up his work on the novel. Next is also a graph of individual types of games on income in the Czech Republic and trends. There is a time series from 2003 to 2018, of course, from now on they are estimates. The following is continued: "At the same time, according to Mravčík 2014 Gambling in the Czech Republic and its impacts, Prague, the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, is the highest share of players of betting in medium or high risk among players of winning lottery terminals 52,9%, players of EHZ, players of online betting games in other than the Czech Republic registered operators 36,4 % and players of betting games in casino 30,0%, the lowest risk then for numerical and immediate lotteries. According to national research 2012, EHZ players are at the highest risk, 83% of treated persons in 2013.' Here I would just point out that only once in my life, actually shortly after the end of the era of socialism, I met the owner and operator of one casino and he told me that he considered players his patients. I continue in the state of Professor Michal Mejstřík: "At present, according to NUDZ 2015, the Czech Republic is burdened with the social cost of gambling in the amount of about 14.2 to 16.1 billion. A crown in one year. The problematic part of the population of the Czech Republic, to which the costs relate, is about 1.7 percent to 2.3 percent of the population, i.e. 123 to 170 thousand inhabitants, with potential pathological players representing 0.6% to 1% of the population of the Czech Republic, which is thus in absolute terms between 40 and 80 thousand. population. The costs of the troubled player are thus 22 909 to 23 286 crowns and the costs of one pathological player - incredible - 307 061 to 325 740 crowns per year. Maybe I'll repeat that sentence because the sums are really prodigal. And he's right about the activities, the failure so far, of Vice-President Bartošek's colleague. While you are limited to simply raising taxes, the problem is indeed different. I repeat the sentence: The costs of the problem player are thus 22 909 to 23 286 crowns and the costs of one pathological player 307 061 to 325 740 crowns per year. So if you multiply it by 123 to 170 thousand. the population for the first category or the 40 to 80 thousand. the population for those pathological players, so we get the huge sums that are missing somewhere in the economy, and it is from the perspective of our economy, from the perspective of the stability of the families money thrown away by chimney for a few gambling operators. [[17.40 hours]] Professor Mejstřík also adds a table The occurrence of problem playing by type of betting games according to national research 2012 according to PGSI percentage: winning lottery terminals VLT 52,9 %, winning gamers 36,9 %, online odds betting - other operators 36,4 %, casino betting 30 %, online odds betting - selected operators 23,8 %, other online betting games, e.g. poker and roulette, 21,4%, other electronic gaming devices 23,1%, exchange rate betting in stone branches 19,1%, card tournaments outside casinos 18,5 %. Source: mravčík ., probably Václav, 2014. In recent years, the social importance of the Internet has been growing, continuing with Professor Michal Mejstřík, communication on social networks and e-shopping on the Internet, and thus increasing the level of gambling. The Internet allows players to play up to 24 hours a day 7 days a week from any location of a wide range of games, including sports betting, casino games, bingo games, lotteries or card games. It is possible to expect a gradual transfer of players to this way of playing. Current statistical data also support this fact. Again, I would mention a certain political context. You're having a tough fight here, now I'm talking about a government coalition, telling people when to go shopping in shops over 200 square meters or not. That you would think in the law whether at least selectively limit some of these types of games, even when it comes to weekends, so no! Because that's the problem. That would mean a deeper analysis. You'd probably have our support here, but it would need an analysis of whether gambling will not be transferred to another segment. And I think citizens have the right to shop, but they could at least forgive themselves for their part, gambling on weekends. Even if they wanted to bet, then maybe they'd be there in a week and then they wouldn't be involved in a proper work trial. It's hard to say, it calls for analysis. I'm continuing the state of Professor Mejstřík. It offers another table, very interesting, occurrence of problem playing according to citizens' research 2013 - averages of Lie/Bet score, response score and overall score of dissociation module. Other technical equipment such as electromechanical roulette, electronic card table, electronic dice - score 0.68, total score 5.06. Since there's obviously no interest in these numbers, I'm going to meet you, and I'm going to skip that table to the fact that you have the opportunity to get that number. I'll keep going, then. Just a comment on the table or the conclusions. At the same time, the table showing the results of the next survey shows the risk of online gaming. This play often falls into the gray zone. I have already pointed out the issue of the grey zone here, and I hope that Mrs Hornochová's assurance that whatever comes to the House is thought out, it will work, and the future will only be pink. Proceeding. The continued transfer of players to the Internet in connection with the lack of elimination of the grey zone, or even measures leading to an increase in the share of the grey zone, may result in an unwanted deepening of the social problem associated with gambling. An estimate of the share of legal and illegal online gaming in 2014 captures the share of onshore and offshore on-line lotteries and betting games. While the share of the onshore is 53 %, the offshore is 47 percent. There's another source. Let us now return to the declared goals of regulation - Professor Michal Mejstřík continues - in the field of lottery and other similar games. If the sole objective was to increase the collection of funds into the state budget, the increase in the tax rate generally appears to be a logical measure until the breaking point is reached. Lafferův's curve. However, due to the growing globality of all markets, the option of overtaxing brings a high risk of switching players especially in online games to the grey zone. The direct result of this unwanted impact is then lower than the expected revenue of the Treasury. At the same time, the possibility of monitoring and reducing social costs associated with the emergence of pathological gambling in risky persons decreases. If the aim is to reduce the social costs associated with pathological gambling, regulation would need to be adjusted so as to lead to a overall change in the structure of the market in favour of less risky games and a reduction in the share of the grey zone, on the one hand, because of the possibility of better paternal state supervision of risky gambling, and in terms of eliminating tax evasion. I would ask the Vice-President of TOP 09, through the President, to address their ideas for limiting democratic debate in the House outside the House's negotiating period. You have enough space by morning or in the coming days, weeks and months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u77	Mr. MP, I'll take care of this for the Vice-President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, not the TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u78	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u79	Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u80	I'm sorry, but if he's interrupting, then, of course, I'm losing my floss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u81	If I may, I will interrupt you for a moment and state my apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, so that I may not neglect it. My colleague Zlatuška apologizes since 17.45 and since 18.30 Mr Martin Komárek. For the sake of caution, I will say an apology because I did not notice whether it was said by my colleague Gazdík: Mr Sedláček apologizes for the afternoon meeting within 17 hours, Mr Koubek from the meeting of the House from 15 to 19, Mr Chalupa between 17.45 and 19.30 for working reasons and Mr Martin Plíšek from 18.30 pm. So many apologies that have run out, but are not yet included among the apologies that have been read. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u82	Thank you for the floor. Just to lighten up, because I understand that the issue of gambling is very complicated and the negotiations today have been tiring. I managed to reach the stage of an honorable senator who, after the election of Václav Klaus, congratulated the president for the second time on saying that Václav Havel's choice was a good choice. So I did it in a smaller, but something similar. If you don't mind, the honorable institution, I'd continue. In order to prevent you from getting lost, like I did when I misjudged, we will get to Part Three to identify the problems of current legislation and the problems of the current state and the goals that should be achieved, the third state of Professor Mejstřík. For your information, I mean seven, no, eight even with a conclusion. [[17.50 hours]] So we're at point 3 of the Lottery tax as a sector tax? The following section compares the taxation of lottery companies with other sectors. The basic conclusion is that lottery companies are taxed more, i.e. lottery tax shows characteristics of so-called sectoral taxes where a higher effective tax rate is a penalty for inducing negative externalities. Lottery companies and other similar games are exempt from value added tax but cannot deduct input VAT. On the contrary, lottery taxes are charged, the rate of which is similar to the higher VAT rate of 20 per cent versus 21 per cent. Assuming that lottery companies would pay VAT instead of lottery taxes on lottery activities, the effective tax would be higher than 21 percent of their value added because they would have to pay tax for a large part of the value added, which they have only as input. Winnings are mainly paid to natural persons who are not VAT payers. The lottery tax rate, which would approximately offset the conditions compared to other sectors of the economy, which are VAT payers, would correspond to a level of around 17 to 19 %. The current lottery tax of 20 per cent is thus above the lottery rate derived from the alternative to VAT payment. The difference between one and three percentage points thus represents a premium for causing negative externalities associated with lotteries and other similar games compared to other standard sectors of the economy. I do not know whether this has been taken into account in the proposal referred to as "volný'. That was my comment. I'll speed it up. I'm glad I can make someone feel better. Four. Economic and socio-economic reasons for tariff differentiation. The differentiation of rates for different types of games is particularly desirable when a group of games creates higher negative externalities in the form of social costs than other games. The differentiation of rates should therefore take into account the social costs associated with the existence of negative externalities at the tax rate in order to reduce or approximately compensate for additional tax revenues. However, the level of the tax rate should take into account the risk of switching to the grey economy and the associated costs of controlling and eliminating the grey economy in the area of lotteries and other similar games. The differentiation of rates therefore appears to be one of the appropriate tools to influence the structure of the lottery market and other similar games that the State can use to reduce the negative externalities associated with playing. The current legislation already works through the existence of a fixed part of the sub-base for technical gaming equipment with a certain indirect differentiation of lottery tax rates, because the effective lottery tax for technical gaming equipment is higher than 20 per cent. In 2014, it represented an effective lottery tax for technical gaming equipment 26,4 percent, reported by the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic. The general rule for the effectiveness of regulation is its controllability and enforcement. In order to achieve the desired tax effect of tariff differentiation, it is therefore important to establish adequate control mechanisms and other support measures. In this, I therefore believe that it is to a certain extent, if this is thought out and supported by analyses, to reach for a differentiation of tax rates. Five. Onshore versus offshore issues. With the development of online lotteries and betting games, the problem of unlicensed betting companies offering the possibility of betting over the Internet has fully emerged. These companies do not have a license to operate lotteries and other similar games on the territory of the Czech Republic, the offshore company, and thus does not pay a lottery tax to the Czech Republic. I've already talked about this here at the beginning. On the basis of an estimate of income from the game resulting from offshore to the companies of the Czech Republic, carried out by H2 Capital, the potential additional income from the lottery tax can be estimated at between 300 million and 450 million in the case of the elimination of the offshore grey zone. crowns a year. KPNG estimated the amount of lost contribution for the Czech Republic from unlicensed betting companies to 350 million in its 2012 study. Crowns. The issue of offshore companies is closely linked to the level of the lottery tax rate and control and possible state regulation. In the case of a high lottery tax, the company's motivation to legalize its business through the acquisition of a licence is lower than the average rate, so it is necessary to spend some resources to create barriers to business for unlicensed companies and to reduce the share of offshore. In view of the nature of the online service provided, in the absence of such barriers, the transition for players between legal and illegal providers is very simple and fast. This means players on the Internet can very quickly compare the offer of individual providers and choose the best. Any barriers to business for unlicensed companies may include e.g. penalties for advertising of unauthorized games or games of unlicensed companies, blocking payment transactions between betting and unlicensed companies, blocking websites of unlicensed providers, etc. Lately some states, e.g. Great Britain, switching to a more market-oriented solution, a system, or taxation based on a site planted rather than on the operator's registered office. [[Nesroz.]] If this system were introduced in our country, it would mean that it would be a tax offense if the lottery tax on income from the game was not paid on the territory of the Czech Republic. I think and hope that the Deputy Závodský is going this way, and it would certainly be worth a lot of attention, because this would avoid the fundamental objection of the European Union as regards the single Union market, the free movement of people, capital and so on. This means in the law to accept that the tax is based on the location of the betting, not on the formal, often probably formal place where the company is based. Six. I'm coming to the end, if I may have your attention. Proposal for an alternative setting of lottery tax rates. The proposed alternative rate setting takes into account not only existing market specifics, this is significantly above the average share of THZ in the Czech Republic compared to the EU 28 countries, but is also trying to take into account the expected development in the sector following possible adoption of a new comprehensive regulation of lottery operations and other similar games as described in chapter one, this is the issue of onshore versus offshore. The proposed alternative rate setting leaves a distinction only on lotteries and similar games and technical equipment. [[18.00 hours]] This is not a complex new proposal for taxation, but only an alternative proposal for taxation to existing and discussed alternatives, which takes into account all the above specifics. When proposing an alternative rate setting, we were based on the following assumptions - it was probably based on profesor Mejstřík. With regard to the structure of the market in the Czech Republic and the level of social costs for individual games and according to the government's programme statement, we are presenting higher taxation for THZ. We expect an increase to 35 percent from the current effective lottery tax for THZ of 26,4 %. For the next one. The increase in lottery tax for THZ will result in a decrease in revenue from THZ by between 5 and 10 % compared to 2014. For the next one. We expect to maintain a 20% rate for lotteries and similar games to them. For the next one. As a result of compliance with European Union legislation and maintaining a 20% rate of tax on exchange rate bets, we expect a reduction in the share of offshore bets from 32 percent in 2014 to 20 to 30 percent. For the next one. We continue to assume the possibility of applying a 25% tax discount for lottery and exchange rate bets. Furthermore, profesor Mejstřík presents a chart Comparison of alternative draft tax rates compared to 2014. Alternative fixing of tax rates will bring about 1 billion. 214 million crowns higher levy on lottery tax. The higher levy on lottery tax is ensured both by higher tax on THZ, but also by a reduction in the share of the grey economy, i.e. Offshore share. On the other hand, other tax revenues of the state budget will be reduced as a result of an increase in lottery tax. The overall estimated impact on the state budget in the case of alternative tax rates is thus 7 billion. CZK 998 million, which represents an increase in the revenue of the state budget by CZK 866 million against the current situation. In addition, there will also be an increase in the Czech Olympic Committee's revenues to finance sport by 57 million through the application of a higher tax discount. Taking into account the availability of online gaming market due to the introduction of Czech legislation and European legislation, the final impact on the state budget could be higher. - That's very good news for the finance minister here. Of course, you have a graph in that stat. Seven. Comparison of alternative solutions, setting lottery tax rates with selected parliamentary proposals. In view of the currently very discussed Volný návrh and its proposed change in lottery tax rates, a comparison of the current situation with the draft Volný Tax is given below. The Volný proposal was recounted on the basis of the latest figures for 2014 to be comparable to the current figures. The following assumptions were used for the calculation. Mr President, Members of Social Democracy are disturbing me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u83	Dear colleague, I acknowledge that the noise level has increased. But otherwise, the others have been watching you very closely, and I think you can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u84	Thank you. I would like to say to the impatient Social Democrats that I am coming to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u85	If you need a break, I can load two apologies. One came to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Ivan Gabal, but it was only delivered to me now. At 5:00 p.m., he apologizes for business reasons for the House meeting. And I was directly served with an apology from Mr. Štětina. I will quote: Please excuse my absence at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at 18 o'clock for health reasons. Since yesterday, I have been ill, and after today's "words," I have become even worse. [[Laughs in the hall.]] You may proceed. I ask for peace of mind so that Mr Laudát can continue his educational speech of what we have certainly all read in the analyses, at least the members of the Committee on Budgets. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u86	Thank you for the floor. I'll repeat the seventh point. Comparison of alternative solutions, setting lottery tax rates with selected parliamentary proposals. In view of the currently very discussed Volný návrh and its proposed change in rates from lottery tax, the comparison of the current situation with the draft Volný is given below. The Volný proposal was recounted on the basis of the latest figures for 2014 to be comparable to the current figures. The following assumptions were used for the calculation: Firstly, in line with the proposal, we expect an increase in the lottery tax rate to 25 percent, an increase in the fixed part of the partial levy to CZK 110 per day, which represents an effective lottery tax for THZ of 33.6 per day. For the next one. Furthermore, in line with the proposal, we anticipate a decrease in the number of installations to 46 thousand as a result of higher tax on THZ. For the next one. However, as a result of a lower number of equipment, we expect a decrease in game revenue from THZ by between 5 and 10 %. For the next one. As a result of higher taxation of exchange betting, we expect an increase in the share of the offshore from 32 percent in 2014 to 35 to 45 percent. For the last time. We continue to assume the possibility of applying a 25% tax discount for lottery and exchange rate bets. Although the proposal for a vacancy against the current state means 1 billion. CZK 463 million higher income from lottery tax, but after counting the reduction of state budget revenues from other taxes, the proposal for a free increase in state budget revenues only - only - represents CZK 780 million. There you have seen a larger increase in other settings. There's a proof of the current state of affairs with the proposal of the Volný. The source is EEIP, and even the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic. Apparently, Mr. profesor. Mejstřík doesn't write in the wind. Proceeding. The alternative pricing proposal is not a comprehensive solution, but it is an alternative to the Volný proposal, which, in addition to increasing state budget revenues, takes into account existing market specifics and tries to eliminate the negative externalities of changes and market structures, but also takes into account future trends in lotteries and other similar games, offshore versus onshore. Moreover, an alternative proposal for fixing rates represents an increase in revenue from the state budget against the current situation of CZK 867 million per year and also slightly higher income than the Free Member's proposal of CZK 86 million per year. The most recent proposal is the proposal by Bartošek 2015B from August 20, 2015. This proposal is in line with our proposed alternative solution, where it eliminates contradictions with European regulations, contributes to a more effective penalty for illegal lottery operators and other similar games, differentiations from lotteries and other similar games according to their risk and social impact. Like the alternative proposal, Bartošek's 2015B proposal envisages an increase in the revenue of the state budget. [[18.10 hours]] I'm getting to point number one. 8, which is the conclusion. The lottery market and other similar games can create negative externalities in the form of risky behaviour of players, addiction, which can represent significant social costs. However, it is a market for highly heterogeneous products, services whose different nature and different risks of creating negative externalities in the form of social costs are not sufficiently displayed in current legislation. At the same time, the current legislation is struggling with other shortcomings, does not respond to technological developments in recent years and, above all, is contrary to European law, which could lead to the imposition of sanctions by the European Commission. I repeat this sentence: At the same time, the current legislation is dealing with other shortcomings, does not respond to technological developments in recent years and, above all, is contrary to European law, which could lead to the imposition of sanctions by the European Commission. It is therefore necessary to amend the legislation in order to address the problems of existing legislation, which partly took into account the expected developments in lotteries and other similar games, while setting conditions for a favourable business environment. [[by]] Regulation should be continuous and the environment stabilized. However, such an example of regulation cannot be regarded as a procedure whereby, instead of preparing and adopting a comprehensive regulation, a Member State is tabled an amendment which addresses isolatedly only the issue of tax rates, lottery tax, without taking into account other important factors affecting the environment of lottery operations and other similar games, i.e. social hazard that, through social costs, affects the overall impact on society, respectively. public budgets. Adapting regulation to new trends, increasing importance of online lotteries and betting games, stability and foresight of the business environment and, last but not least, possible infringement by the European Union due to non-compliance with European legislation. Thus, partial tax changes, without the knowledge of the wider context and complex solution of the issue, can be counterproductive and cause irreversible negative damage to the market. The alternative proposal does not have the ambition to become comprehensive legislation, but seeks to take account of some of the factors mentioned above. The alternative proposal thus envisages differentiation of the rates of individual game groups with the aim of changing the structure of the lottery and betting market and efforts to reduce negative externalities in the form of social costs arising from the current situation. In addition, the proposal proposes to choose a rate setting to take account of current trends in the sector and minimise the risk of the player's tide to the grey zone, an increase in social costs, which in this case are not even offset by the increase in revenue in the budget. On the contrary, it is an effort to set the conditions for the creation of a business environment that will allow the proportion of the grey zone to be reduced due to predictableness and stability. Ladies and gentlemen, so much for Professor Michal Mejstřík. I just want to say this: the Ministry of Finance has a number of analyses, a number of experts - if there are still some survivors of personnel genocide, I don't know. And then I ask the Minister of Finance how many more years you will need to come up with a comprehensive thought-out novel to put a gamble story in the Czech Republic to a close for some time for some years. Please stop doing media PR events and start working. Thank you very much for your attention to those who listened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u87	Thank you. That was Mr. František Laudát. Mr Leoš Heger is also enrolled in the general debate. With priority rights, does my colleague Kalousek want to use it? He'll outrun his party buddy. prosit, Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u88	I'm stressing that it was a deal. I just wanted to finish the substantive comments that I had on the bill and where I considered it necessary to introduce you to the Chamber of Commerce's reservations. However, allow me before, ladies and gentlemen, to comment on what I hear very often in gallows, because some colleagues are not in the habit of speaking on microphones, all the more they go to reporters' microphones, where they say that our intention is nothing more than to block the negotiation of an amendment to the gambling law, that it is related to the gambling lobby, and it is accompanied by all sorts of insults about health. I want to make it clear, first of all, that we welcome this novel, I said it in my entry. We strongly hope that we will be able to explain all the comments and objections that we have formulated and yet to formulate, and we firmly hope that we will jointly approve the proposal submitted by the government on lotteries, gambling and gambling related, including tax regulation. First of all, and you can watch us support it. One. Secondly, it is not true that the case Free, i.e. sorry, the amendment Free is the only instrument you can achieve an increase in tax revenue or tax changes to 1. 1. 2016. We discussed this on a comprehensive basis yesterday on the Organising Committee, and many of us, including the experts present from the legislation, confirmed that it is possible to include this increase not in the Volný MEP's proposal, but in a government proposal that we, as I stress, support. Most of the government's proposal for notification couldn't be effective at 1. 1. 2016 would have been effective at 1. 1. 2017 but the parametric changes proposed by Mr Free could be effective at 1. 1. 2016 and it would have made it. You, and this must be said quite openly, but it is something else. You don't even care about getting away with it on time or a little bit later, because to 1. 1. 2016 could have just come into effect in the government's proposal, but you closed the coalition, I don't blame you, business like this is sometimes done, you made a deal in the coalition: you will support us with the Volný Amendment for supporting your budget tax determination for your captains. You left your KDU-ČSL colleagues a little bit on the side, you just told them. You have concluded this deal with each other, which is why it is essential that these two laws be discussed in the same regime, at the same meeting and next to each other, because you don't trust each other and you just need to do the deal in real time at one meeting, preferably in one single hour of vote. There's no other reason for this than this business. That is why you insist on a non-systemic solution to tax legislation by a Member's proposal rather than systematically addressing it with a government proposal. After all, if the Minister of Finance had fulfilled what he had been tasked with and what he had committed himself to submitting a government proposal in mid-2014, I had already approved it and could have been fully effective to 1. 1. 2016 because he would have been notified by now. This means your reservations against the fact that we may be delaying an hour or two of speeches here are a completely ridiculous marginal part of the time that you have been deprived of by the subtlety and incompetence of the Minister of Finance, who promised half of 2014, and the reality is August 2015. And as always, when we talk about a topic that the finance minister doesn't want to talk about, and he wants to drown it and he has no arguments, he starts with personal attacks and insults. It's his know-how. This is not just how he treats me, this is how he treats the Social Democratic Member, this is how he treats the Social Democratic Governor, this is how he sometimes treats the Social Democratic Prime Minister. I don't know if it's a coincidence that when the Prime Minister is in the United States, the headlines of the opening party to the People's paper are criminal Sobotka, how he privatized the coal. It's not a coincidence. [[18.20 hours]] If I want to drown out my own problems and I don't want to allow a discussion about my own problems, I'm a vile attacker and an insulter. It's just my know-how - not mine, it's "his know-how," and you can prove he's not just using it to me. He just gets caught up sometimes when someone has proof in their hand that it's completely different from what he said, which, by chance, I managed to do just because ich kenne unsere Pappenheimer. I think it is fair for this to be said to be quite openly heard in the Chamber of Deputies, so that we do not subtly refer to the editors to name what is going on here in the Chamber of Deputies. Our outrage doesn't come from what's or isn't in a volný novel. Our indignation is in the restriction of the constitutional rights of opposition Members. Our outrage is that you have decided to divide Members into Members of the first category and second category and third category, that we understand that every government coalition has priority to discuss government proposals, that is to say, the government is to rule, and that it sometimes needs to change the rules within which it rules and according to which it rules. But I have never heard that one Member would take precedence over the other. You guys do it all the time. Here are the Members whose laws must be discussed immediately after they have been tabled. Then there are Members whose laws may lie for two years, then there are Members whose laws cannot be discussed!' We have three categories of Members here. Show me in the Constitution! And when we point out that, when we resist it, instead of having a substantive discussion on this subject and looking for an agreement, there will be personal attacks and nasty insults. And it's like a copycat. If I hadn't said this reservation as Kalousek and told Šincl, then Šincl would have just learned who he was instead of hearing arguments. You guys just work this way. I don't think there's anything we can do about it, it's your style, but we need to fight it and say that we're not going to be blackmailed or intimidated by it. And if your willingness to our constitutional law is still the same as it is, you cannot expect us to be friendly in discussing your government priorities. So I strongly hope that we will get some sense that what the President of the ANO movement said today will not apply: we must agree with coalition partners on how we will not look back on the opposition. That statement was made at a press conference. And not looking back on the opposition means not looking back on parliamentary democracy. This is something that is inherently connected, and we insist that we are part of the parliamentary system and do not want to be reduced in your rights or by not looking back on us, nor by making up rumors about us, nor by making up insults that have been made up of this day. I guess I wanted to say so much about the process of this discussion, with the fact that we are always ready to sit at the table with the club presidents of the government coalition and discuss how to do this so that none of the parties feels that there are Members of the first, second and third categories, regardless of the content of their parliamentary proposals. Now, let me finish my speech, which I briefly interrupted, so that I may also have my colleagues speak. This concerns the amendment law and concerns comments on the amendment of the advertising regulation law. The bill on the regulation of advertising, as presented in the amendment law, contains a number of restrictive measures relating to advertising of gambling, the purpose and purpose of which is not apparent by law or by reason of the change law. As a result, these changes constitute such restrictive restrictions for which it will not be possible to compete effectively with the offer of illegal gambling, which will not follow these measures in promoting its products. In addition to the above unattractive legal offer, these restrictions will also have an impact on Czech Internet portal operators, whose Internet advertising income will substantially decrease compared to their foreign competitors who will not follow these restrictions. The deepening of regulation only for those entities that are already regulated and respect the existing legal framework constitutes a moral hazard. The proposed measures, consisting of banning direct reference within the framework of Internet advertising or requiring 25% of the scope of the alert message, go beyond Commission Recommendation No This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. It is not at all clear why the petitioner deviated from the recognised and European Commission Member States recommended standards laying down requirements for advertising of gambling and created regulation of his own and different from all other Member States of the European Union. The Chamber of Commerce, and we, with it, propose a fundamental amendment to the sixth part of the amendment law, respecting the requirements based on the recommendations of the European Commission. I want to add once again: we are not opposed to the restriction, regulation of advertising, and we do not understand why we are to be the only country in which it will be as suggested by the petitioner, while in all other countries of the European Union it is different. Maybe there's a reason for that, but the explanatory statement doesn't state it, the material doesn't. We'd like to hear it. We don't even have a Croatian example here, we'll really be the only ones here if we can do it this way. These are probably the most fundamental comments on the proposal in terms of technical, legislative, tax law. What I think, and I am glad that Mr Holeček came, because he is almost the most dedicated of us, because I think what the Chamber of Deputies must be interested in is the taxation of gambling linked to the financing of sport in custody of the lottery law. Those are just connected containers. We all know that. Even Sazka, before achieving an incredible result that as almost a state monopoly, she had failed, which I think has failed in any OECD country, until then was an important source for financing sport. And we can hardly, with good conscience, discuss this proposal and approve it without realizing the relations for sport in connection with the lottery law. Now let me remind you very briefly in this context that the first draft law governing the betting and lottery market in the Czech Republic was Law No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games. [[18.30 hours]] Adjustment of cash and material lottery, raffles, lottery numbers, instant lottery, winning instruments, bingo, odds, casino betting and games operated by technical equipment operated by betting. Allowed to run lottery and betting games was issued by the Ministry on the basis of a tender. The operator also carried the cost of state supervision and they were allowed to represent a maximum of 1 per cent of the income reduced by the winnings paid. Companies made 90 percent of the proceeds from lotteries, raffles and sports betting games where winning is conditional on the correct determination of sports results, and 10 percent from the operation of odds betting, casino betting and special social, health, educational or otherwise community-friendly games. In 1998, i.e. eight years later, the system of levies for all lottery companies was unified, the new principle of the calculation of the contribution at the VPÚ is a public benefit, a progressive contribution of 6 to 20 per cent of the difference by which the income of the operator consisting of all the amounts put in by it exceeds the winnings paid to the betting, administrative fees and the cost of the state supervision. The extension of the VPA definition to a sporting, cultural and ecological purpose occurred in 1998. Exemption from corporate tax on all lottery companies. This was the problem that the contribution for universally beneficial purposes was measured roughly at the level of the assumed tax and the privilege of public budget managers, which the council and the House have, that is to say, to decide which publicly beneficial purposes of compulsory contributions have the priority, has been privatised. I mean, the main problem was that there were circumventions and that they were purposefully based on their own nonprofits, that's true. This was also happening, but not on such a massive scale, and it was not a major social problem. The main social problem was the privatisation of part of the powers that are only for public budget managers who are given a mandate in elections. The lottery companies had it here. This is a thing that several different finance ministers across the political spectrum have tried to change, and it's always been like a minority in the House. And I dare say that if Sazka hadn't failed, if sazka had stayed as strong as she had been for years, it might not have succeeded to this day. I sometimes beat myself proudly in the breasts that I was the first finance minister to enforce gambling taxation in 2011, which is true. I'm not at all sure if I could have done it in the House of Commons at the time, maybe, maybe not, I'm not sure if I could have done it if there was a Sazka in full force, as it existed in the 1990s. In 2001 and 2003, electromechanical, electronic or similar equipment was introduced and the local fee was introduced. Part of the proceeds from the operation of the winning instruments was taken directly from the municipality which authorised the operation of the devices. In 2008, a license was granted for online internet betting. There was a very exciting political debate around that time, especially within one political party. And it brought significant revenue to the state budget, until then, the state budget had nothing to do with it. And, in my opinion, the new law that the petitioner is now presenting is expanding the games online, but it also regulates transparently in accordance with the law of the European Union. In 2012, an amendment to the Lottery Act was submitted, which substantially changed the ratio between municipalities and the state budget to the ratio, which unfortunately the petitioner wants to turn again, and the municipalities would weep over the earnings in a significant way. I've already talked about this, I don't want to repeat my arguments so I don't hold you up. It could look like obstruction. To that end, let us say what the current organisation of sport is, undoubtedly a public interest that has been used for years to its resources from the lotteries and which we always count on, and in a way the proposed law envisages that lottery bets, odds and possibly gambling as a whole will be an important source for its financing. The organisation of sport is coordinated in the Czech Republic through the government of the Czech Republic, self-governing units, these are regions and municipalities, and civil associations bringing athletes together into the respective associations, including the umbrella role of the Czech Olympic Committee. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is responsible for national coordination, which, following the concept of State aid for sport in the Czech Republic, annually processes and declares state aid and sport programmes. The municipalities and regions are jointly responsible for creating the conditions for the development of sport and the construction and maintenance of the relevant facilities, while sports clubs, physical unity and sports associations have the task of adopting the organisation of sports activities. The sport activity itself is most influenced by sports organizations in the Czech Republic, these are civic associations, with the Czech Republic characterized by a great tradition of the Federal Body. In the Czech Republic, more than 35,000 locally active body and sports clubs are currently active, bringing together a total of 3 million registered members, including multiple memberships. At the same time, however, there is a decline in federal life as a result of reduced volunteer activity and a lack of financial and human resources. What is the current system of financing sport? I apologize to Mr Holečka, he knows better than I do, but many of us do not know, and I think we need to realise that in this context. Of course, these are public budgets. The state budget funds are provided by the Ministry of Sports in the form of grants to sports associations, the Czech Olympic Committee and directly to sports clubs. Sports associations shall redistribute part of the funds obtained to their member sports clubs. Lottery and betting companies are the second largest source after public budgets, and under the former legal status until 2011 they were an important source of lottery betting company headed by the largest company Sazka in the form of a compulsory contribution. Sazka, a company with a billion-dollar turnover, did not pay the tax, paid a mandatory contribution for community service purposes. Its shareholders were sports associations, so logically the whole proceeds of Sazka went to finance sports. After the bankruptcy of Sazka and the amendment of the law, the lottery company no longer carries out part of the proceeds from its activities directly to sport or culture or charity, but to the state budget and budget of municipalities. The third source is its own activity, as, of course, sports clubs, associations and organisations with national competence continue to draw resources from their own activities and property management. Of course, the private sector is also the source. Private companies and entrepreneurs are another important source. The most common form of funding for sport from the private sector is sponsorship, and I think it deserves its more pregnant legislative definition, although I don't think that's the top priority right now, but we should include it in the list of potential tasks. [[18.40 hours]] Of course, I did not make the exact expression that I said that public budgets were the most significant source. Public budgets are not the most significant source. The most significant source is the athletes themselves, i.e. households, because households account for between 57 and 60 per cent of all the costs the company spends on sport. They pay members' contributions to sports clubs, sports clubs pay members' contributions to cover sports associations. To sum it up. The Czech sport is therefore financed from several sources, the most important source is households, where money is directed from public budgets. I suspect that almost every political party that had ever run for office in its electoral programme was suffocating that money for sport was its important priority, and by the end of 2011, it was the important source of lottery society that was there to privatise the powers for decisions to which these funds would go for charity purposes. The environment of European legislation is what we are in if we want to understand the relationship between sport and the financing of sports and lotteries. Lottery and other similar games have been regulated by the Lottery Act in the Czech Republic since 1990 and three implementing decrees have been issued by the Ministry of Finance to implement the above law. This is Decree No. 223/1993 Coll., on Playing Instruments, of 28 July 1993, as amended, Decree No. 285/1998 Coll., on the Conditions for Monitoring and Storage of Records in the Casino of 26 November 1998, as amended, and Decree No. 315/1999 Coll., on the Method of Notification of Competitions, Surveys and Other Events on Prices That Are Not Consumer Competitions, of 1 December 1999, as amended. The issue of lottery and other similar games is also partly governed by Act No.89/2012 Coll., a new Civil Code, which addresses the issue of the possibility of recovering claims arising from winnings from bets and games and loans made consciously in the bet or game. In connection with the regulation of this industry it is also possible to talk about financial legislation and in particular about the following regulations: Act No.565/1990 Coll., on local fees, as amended, Act No.634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, Act No.500/2004 Coll., Administrative Code, as amended, Act No.563/1991 Coll., on accounting, as amended, Act No.586/1992 Coll., on income taxes, as amended, Act No.513/1990 Coll., on territorial financial institutions, as amended, and finally Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on value added tax, as amended. At the beginning of 2013, the European Commission reminded the Czech Lottery Act and, on the basis of these comments and, above all, the objections in relation to the single European internal market, ordered the Ministry of Finance to revise the proposal for a new Lottery Act. The reason for the European Commission's objections was in particular the request of the company's headquarters in the Czech Republic and the registration of players in stone branches. Both served to tighten up access to gambling. I could stand up for both of them, because it has been far better able to safeguard payment morale and whether or not they will bet players over the age of 18, but unfortunately, the European Commission found it incompatible with European Union law as a major lobby for foreign companies. There is nothing more to be done about this than to accept it because, in such a case, the Member State threatens to infringement, and, in order to avoid action for breach of contract, the Czech Republic should have reworked the law and adopted by 1 at the latest. 1. 2014. The amendment to the Lottery Act, which entered into force 1. 1. 2014 does not correct this issue, it was not here in 2012 and 2013, actually 2013, there was not very much political stability, Nečasův' government was called off in the middle of reworking, or mistrust was expressed, Fischerův's government was not interested in doing so and the Sobotkův government started to do so. The Government has therefore requested a European Union representative to extend the deadline for the implementation of European requirements by the end of 2014. She has met with understanding, but if we do not accept, if we reject it as a parliament, we are at risk of sanctions. I sure hope this doesn't happen. I repeat once again for the TOP 09 Members' club that we welcome the amendment, we support it, we just need to explain the reservations that I have spoken about, and according to them, either amend the law or explain to us that our concerns are odd. Unfortunately, the accompanying documentation does not provide such explanations. The provision and use of offers of lottery and other similar games from abroad is an economic activity falling within the scope of the fundamental freedoms of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union prohibits restricting the freedom to provide services to beneficiaries in other Member States. National provisions prohibiting the provision of services of lottery and other similar games authorised in other Member States restrict the freedom of national residents to receive via internal services provided from other Member States. They also restrict the freedom of operators established in other Member States to provide services for other lottery and other similar games. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] The European Community has initiated infringement proceedings against a significant number of Member States in the past and is not shy about this move. In the field of lottery and other similar games, a large number of complaints are currently registered based on Article 49 and Article 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely those of the single internal market. What is important is that we are able to understand the meaning of the legal definitions presented by the petitioner. I have already slightly protested the ambiguous definition of the relative and fixed tax base here, and please make sure the Ministry of Finance -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u89	My colleague, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. I will ask the House for peace and, at the same time, take advantage of the fact that I have interrupted you, that I will state an apology which has come to the President of the House, for reasons of employment from 18 o'clock until the end of Mr Karel Fiedler's meeting day. Please note that I am still registered with the factual remarks made by Mr Vice-President of Government Andrej Babiš, Mr Volný's rapporteur, Mr Plzák's colleague and Mr Leoš Heger in the debate. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u90	Let me thank the rapporteur, on this occasion, for his willingness to share with me the water of the translator. You see the trust I'm drinking with. I had no idea why I shouldn't do it. [[A voice from the bench: You do not know what is poured there!]] This means, please note, because even in the discussion we sometimes get confused with the terms of the lottery, the number lottery, we should be very careful about the accuracy of terms, so let me remind you that we have cash or material lotteries. These are lotteries where a certain number of tickets with serial numbers are issued to the operator according to the game plan and all lotteries issued are included in the draw, all of which have been issued - this is crucial. The security that the operator has to lodge and which guarantees that it is solvent to pay the prize is CZK 50 million. Then we have raffles. In the raffle, not all issued but only sold tickets will be included in the draw. That's the difference, and you need to be aware of that. The salmon are sold and the winnings are issued on that day and on the place of the draw. That's a raffle condition. There doesn't have to be any certainty. It's allowed by the municipal office up to 50,000. Over 50 grand, the Treasury has to allow it. For factual raffles, the municipality decides on the conditions at its discretion. We all know it from prom raffles or similar cases. It's a raffle. Then we have the number lottery. This is a lottery where neither the number of participants nor the amount of the game principal is determined in advance. The prize shall be calculated by the number of winners and the aggregate amount of betting deposits established in advance. That means, when the first three are pulled, everyone wins, but of course they share the prize. That's the principle of the number lottery. Then there are immediate lotteries. Maybe some of you know them from the newsstands like scratch tickets. This is a lottery where the player of the game in the operator of specified periods on marked up until the purchase of a covered part of the bet ticket or lottery by removing or paying the deposit finds a possible win or lose. You just scrape it off and you got it: you win - you lose. The security is 2 million crowns. This is permitted by the municipal authority, or the regional authority, or the Ministry of Finance - depending on the amount of volume. Then sports betting games are dependent on the ratio, not on the ratio of two people, but on the exchange rate ratio. A bet game where winning is conditional on guessing sports results or ranking in sports competitions and races. The amount of the winnings depends on the ratio of the number of winners to the total amount of deposits and the predetermined share of the winnings. Then there are betting games with numerical chips called... Who knows? Bingo. Bingo - these are betting games operated using a special type of tokens with a combination of 15 numbers in a numerical row from 1 to 90, where the number of participants is not determined in advance and neither the amount of the game principal. The draw shall be carried out publicly using mechanical equipment. The prize is calculated according to the aggregate amount of deposits, by type of win and in each game according to the draw results. A bet game called a bet is a game where winning is conditional on guessing sports results or ranking in sports competitions and races or guessing other events of public interest. I'm sure you've noticed that there are already courses on the election results or that there are courses on whether a celebrity - like Duchess Kate - will have a boy or a girl. [[The mockery of some Members.]] Don't smile, there's a lot of money involved. Then, of course, there are casinos. Sorry. For those odds, it is important that we be aware that the security is CZK 10 million and that the Ministry of Finance gives permission for a maximum of 10 years. But since the revenues are not dramatically high there, but relatively large investments are needed in infrastructure, the 10 years are not such an excessive requirement that the investment in infrastructure be returnable. [[It's getting busy in the hall, part of the Members are already packing things to leave.]] Then there are casinos. These are betting games operated in specially designed gaming rooms. These arcades are called casinos, even with mechanical devices. The prize shall be calculated from the amount of deposits under the conditions laid down in the game plan. And what is important is that they must not be operated in mobile gambling rooms, which means they must be operated in stone buildings. The security is CZK 20 million and the Ministry of Finance is issuing permits again for a maximum of 10 years. Then there are lotteries on technical equipment serviced by betting. Ladies and gentlemen, it may seem useless as a nit-pop, but it's very important to realize this because the word "gambling" often sounds in public debate. To make you aware that this term governs the law, where the raffle belongs at the hunting ball, for example. I don't think it's gambling. I just don't think there's a gamble when my uncle filled his bet twice a week. I'm not gonna say what companies I don't advertise. But twice a week, he filled out a bet for 60 crowns. It's a social game. It's not a gamble. It is, of course, regulated by this law. To be aware that this law regulates really hard and socially harmful gambling and also regulates basically innocent social entertainment. And we call it all gambling. I would ask that we be able to separate this from each other in the definitions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u91	My colleagues, my colleague, I ask for peace of mind. I don't think we need a noise level that high. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u92	I don't think I'm gonna make it, 'cause I have a lot on my mind. I know I'll be interrupted at seven o'clock, so I'll have no choice but to proceed with the next session. So let me make a point like that. I can think hard about how these completely relevant comments - and I stress that I do not read Lebanon's poetry here or read fairy tales. I am expressing my opinion in substance on the bill tabled. I can think of the best way to make it more effective, like how to email it to you in writing. [[That's enough.]] I have to tell you. It's on my mind. But I can think of the most effective way to introduce you to it. And I suppose you can think about not having Members of the first, second and third categories. [[19.00 hours]] And that limiting opposition means restricting parliamentary democracy. And that we are certainly able to find a way to respect each other. I, as the chairman of my parliamentary club, am prepared to sit down at any time for this discussion. Tonight. And we can think in parallel and together. How much more effectively I will confide in you what I have to say to these laws -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u93	I'll cut you off, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u94	And how we will act more effectively and more friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-30-ps2013-031-06-006-999.u95	That was Mr Kalousek. [[Let's hear it for some Members.]] I note that I have interrupted the merged debate for paragraphs 43, 44 and 45 in the performance of Miroslav Kalousek, in the order of registration for a factual remark by Mr. Vice-President Andrej Babiš, Mr. Jan Volný, Mr. Pavel Plzák, Mr. Jiří Běhounek and Mr. Leoš Heger's proper application. I am also interrupting the Chamber of Deputies' meeting on these issues, and I remind you that tomorrow we will meet at 9 a.m. with the original invitation to the migration meeting, this is an adjourned meeting that will begin at 9 a.m. And then we have another meeting there, and we will have to decide on that, which is originally planned for 10 o'clock, which concerns the situation in the Czech Post office and the establishment of the commission of inquiry. This means that the two meetings are convened for the signatures of the Members, which means that they do not concern Thursday's statutory programme, answers to written interpelations and answers to the oral interpelations of Members, and therefore we will only discuss these two meetings, these three items of the programme at two meetings, which will continue tomorrow. By doing so, I have fulfilled my obligation under the Rules of Procedure Act to inform you of tomorrow's meeting. Have a nice evening, and I'm looking forward to seeing you at 9:00 in the morning.
