ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-015-046.u1	46. Government bill on liability for and management of offences 555/ - first reading Here, too, we will vote first on the proposal to return the proposal for completion. If we do not have any other final words on this point, the Minister or the rapporteur, as the case may be. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the proposal by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of returning the submitted proposal for completion, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 324 vote, 121 Members of Parliament, for 30, against 66, the proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has also proposed by his decision to order this proposal to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another guarantee committee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote of 325, 122 Members of Parliament, for 118, against none, I note that the proposal has been directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, Mr Benda also proposed this proposal to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? It's not like that. I therefore began voting on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 326, registered 122 Members, for 118, against none. The motion was accepted. We have ordered this proposal from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development to be discussed. There is also Mr Benda's proposal to extend the deadline for a hundred days. I am opening the vote on this motion for an extension of the deadline for a hundred days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote 327, registered is 122 Members, for 119, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that the proposal has been ordered by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee, as well as by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and has extended the deadline to a hundred days. I'm done discussing item 46. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
