ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-17-ps2013-036-11-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 36th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. Before I proceed to the agenda, I would like to inform you that after eight o'clock, I received information from the police security service that there is a threat to the possibility of imposing an explosive in the Chamber of Deputies. I have been informed that the police are taking all the necessary measures, but this risk has not been assessed in such a way that it should affect the functioning of the Chamber of Deputies, so if there is no change, we will continue the negotiations. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. I'm voting with card number three. I tell you that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend: Mr Adamec - without a reason, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - working grounds, Mr Bartošek from the afternoon hearing - working grounds, Mr Běhounek - personal reasons, Mr Benešík until 10.30 - working grounds, Mr Birke - without a reason, Mrs Bohdalová - personal reasons, Mr Gabal until 10.30 - working reasons, Mr Gabrhel - working grounds, Mrs Hnyková from 10 to 14.30 - working grounds, Mr Jakubčík - working grounds, Vice-President Jermanová - working grounds, Mr Kott from 13 hours on working grounds, Mr Kott within 10 hours on working grounds, Mr Kučera - working grounds, Mr Luzar from 14.30 - personal reasons, Mr Mihola - working grounds, Member of Parliament Mr Nohavová - working reasons, Mr Nykl - health reasons, Mr Ondráček - foreign travel, Mrs Pěnčíková - working reasons, Mr Pfléger - working reasons, Mr Pilný - working reasons, Mr Pleticha within 14.30 - working reasons, Mr Rykala - personal reasons, Mr Sedláček - personal reasons, Mr Sedláček - working reasons, Mrs Schwarz within 15 hours without giving reason, Mr Snopek - personal reasons, Mr Soukup within 10 hours - working reasons, Mr Svoboda - without giving reason, Mr Vácha - working reasons, Mrs Válková - working grounds, Mr Votava - working reasons, Mr Vozula - working Vozka, Mr Vozula - working grounds, Mr Vyzula - working grounds, Semelová Wernerová - working grounds, Mr Zemánek - working grounds. They apologize from the members of the government: Prime Minister - working reasons, foreign travel, Minister Babiš - foreign travel, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek - foreign travel, Minister Dienstbier - working reasons, Minister Chovanec - working reasons, Minister Jurečka from 14.30 - working reasons, Minister Němeček for work reasons, Minister Pelikán until 14.30 - working reasons, Minister Valachová for work reasons and Minister Zaorálek until 14.30 also for work reasons. So many apologies. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 211, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that no later than 11 o'clock, applications for oral interpelations may be submitted and their draw will take place at 11.30 o'clock. So we're going to go to a point.
