ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite everyone to take their seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the Saeima meeting on January 15. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for the sitting of the Saeima on 15 January to begin with a minute's silence, to commemorate the deaths of terror in France and the brutal population in Ukraine! ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Before we start to discuss the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 15 January, the amendments tabled, or the amendments tabled, on the agenda of the sitting, should be considered. The Bureau has received five amendments to the agenda of today's meeting. The National Administration and Municipal Commission asks to include the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” (No 67/Lp12). Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs asks for the draft law “Amendment to the Labour Disputes Law” to be included on the agenda of the meeting of 15 January. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for the draft decision “On the temporary authorisation of the parliamentary powers of the 12th Saeima” to be included on the agenda of the meeting of 15 January. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the appointment of Aija Ilstere as a judge of a district (city) court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting of 15 January. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the appointment of Natalia Zavadska as a judge of a district (city) court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting of 15 January. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust, draft decision on the temporary authorisation of Members of the 12th Saeima Ivara Brīber. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima has received an application from 12th Saeima Member Inga Betes for placing the mandate for parental leave. The next candidate from the Riga electoral district list of the Latvian Association of Regions is Ivars Freezers. The Commission received an application from Ivara Freeer in which he agreed to take up the post of Member of the Saeima. The Commission asks for support to be given to the draft Saeima decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U3	Thank you. I call on Ivars Freeer to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U4	Hello, honorable Presidium! Hello, honourable Members! As a member of the Saeima, I solemnly promise to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and for the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U5	Thank you. I call on you to sign a solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the temporary authorisation of the 12th Saeima Member of Ivara Freeera! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft decision is therefore adopted. I congratulate Ivars Freeer and call for a seat in the Saeima sitting room! (Applause) The next item is the Bureau reports. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Schengen Information System Act” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Administration of Prisons” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” presented to the Legal Commission by Diņa Liepiņa, Juris Viļuma, Mārtiņš Šica, Jānis Ruka, Mārtiņš Bondara and Nellija Kleinberga be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Juris Viļums. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U6	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! ( From the drug depot. S.Absolute intermediate call sign.) Unfortunately, it is not for the first time for us to find that the executive has, to some extent, deceived the legislator and failed to fulfil the task assigned to it by the Saeima within two years. There is no single platform for the secure online collection of citizens' signatures. As a result, the right of voters guaranteed by the Constitution to submit draft laws has now become disproportionately difficult. I think that, at a time when we have to worry about the low political activity of citizens, falling participation rates in elections and a relatively low level of confidence in public administrations, this situation is unacceptable and should be corrected as quickly as possible. In view of the above, our draft law, at least in the transitional provisions, provides for the maintenance of the procedure so far to initiate a popular vote by supplementing it with the possibility to collect signatures online, if technically possible. I therefore ask for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U7	Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Yes!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, against - 28, refrains - 27. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by Diņa Liepiņa, Nellija Kleinberga, Juris Viļuma, Jānis Ruka, Mārtiņš Šics and Mārtiņš Bondara be submitted to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U8	Dear colleagues, it is important to remember that the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia is a monument of legal thought, which should be supplemented and corrected with great responsibility and caution. The letter of the Satversme and the spirit of the spirit are based on the idea of the people of Latvia as the sovereign, the source of power of all state institutions, and we all know very well that the amendments to the basic law, which intend to change the procedure for the election of the President, have already been submitted to the parliamentary committees, because very many people of Latvia want to decide who will lead the state. On the other hand, the draft law presented, despite the ardent loyalty of certain of its authors to the idea of a popular elected president, provides to express Article 36 of the Satversme in the following wording: “The President of the State shall be elected by open vote, with a majority of not less than 51 members of the Saeima.” In particular, the draft law suddenly calls for this privilege to be left in the hands of Parliament. We are convinced that discussions on amendments to the Satversme cannot become a case where the process is even more important than the result. In view of the passionate pre-election debate and generous promises, the 12th Saeima must answer another question: Should the President of Latvia be elected to the people? We are convinced that the citizens of our country must have the right to choose independently the most appropriate person, the authority that will be able to effectively lead the country. Dissatisfaction with parties is growing, and many believe that the only hope is a fundamental change in public administration. Therefore, the President of Latvia must be elected to the nation. The people of Latvia are not at all aware of the leaders elected by 100 people, and the people have the right to decide who will lead our country. It is therefore absolutely wrong, in our view, to open the debate now on whether the President of Latvia should be elected by open voting in the Saeima. This discussion, in the opinion of the EESC, may be really interesting, but at the moment it is simply out of place. I call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U9	“About” applied to speak Member Dainis Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U10	Hello, dear colleagues! In no case does the Latvian Association of Regions give up its intention and purpose to elect the President of Latvia by the people of Latvia. In this context, when it comes to these changes to the draft law, we want... Aware of the fact that it is no longer realistic that the people will have the right to elect the next President of Latvia for the next four years, we call for these changes to the Constitution so that, here in this hall, these elections are held openly and without hiding. I have also noticed in the media today that representatives of one other political wing say that, in that case, our right as Members is being deprived of the right not to make a choice. I think this is a dangerous precedent, because what do we fear if we are afraid to say before the people what exactly we want about the President? I therefore call on you to support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U11	Thank you. One Member has spoken against, one for. The question must therefore be decided by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 17, for - 44. So the draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. National associations “All for Latvia!” - Mr Gaidis Berzins, Chairman of the Group on “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK”, has asked to read the motivation for voting. Please! The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, National associations “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” report on the motives for voting regarding the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” (No 143/Lp12) (hereinafter referred to as “draft law”). The Group of the National Alliance points out that it generally supports the introduction of an open election system for the President of the Republic of Latvia. However, after assessing the submitted draft law, the Group of the National Alliance draws attention to the fact that the preconditions contained in the draft law regarding a person who could be elected as President of Latvia, unduly narrows the possible number of candidates for the post of President of the State, as it requires the candidate for President of the Republic to have the highest category of admission to the state secret already existing; this is partly contrary to the provisions of the existing law on state secrecy. On the basis of the above, the Group of the National Alliance does not support the referral of this draft law to the commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U13	Thank you. The next item is the agenda. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of the Republic” submitted by Diņa Liepiņa, Nellija Kleinberga, Juris Viļuma, Jānis Ruka, Mārtiņš Šics and Mārtiņš Bondara be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, as well as the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U14	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Knowing that the President of Latvia is likely to be elected this time by the Saeima after less than five months, it is important to impose specific requirements on the candidates for the post of President of Latvia. We do not need a simple president with a name, surname and personal number. If citizens cannot trust the President elected by the Saeima to defend public interests, state security, common economic interests and the nation's prosperity, then such a president has little value. That is why the candidates for the post of President of Latvia need to set criteria that raise this threshold slightly above the current general requirements. First. The President of the State must have a degree in higher education. I do not think there is any room for discussion about this here, given that even kindergartens are obliged to have higher education. Secondly. Unfortunately, the perfect reputation recorded in the law when selecting candidates for the post of President of Latvia has not been considered as an essential criterion so far. Therefore, in my opinion, it is more important - especially in the current geopolitical situation - to talk about the need for the candidates for Presidential office to obtain the first category's permission for national secrecy before being elected. This would allow to avoid situations faced by a number of politicians who are nominated for high positions and who are then forced to leave them, because they are in fact unable to fully fulfil their responsibilities, while discrediting the state power and the general picture of politicians in the eyes of citizens. Let us not forget, colleagues, that here we are debating demands from the President of Latvia, which should bring about a significant increase in public trust. At the same time, it is also a question of the general level of public confidence in the state power, which is currently critically low. Therefore, it is not just a person with a specific name, surname and personal code here. This is about a man who can unite a nation! I hope that the Members present are aware of the importance of these amendments to the law and will support them on behalf of Latvia's growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U15	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak by Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This is a very good draft law, which brings two new demands, unfortunately both of which have been miswritten. First, about higher education. As we know, our legislation determines three levels of higher education: the first level - college education, the second degree - bachelor's degree, the third degree - master's degree. If the draft law demands just higher education, then it means that it will be enough with the college. (The intermediate call from the group SAVES: “The highest is... !” ), which we once know as a technique education. Unfortunately, therefore, what Mr Bondara said and, in my opinion, the unsuccessful comparison with the kindergartener has not been a success, because legislation requires higher education for the kindergartener than you requested for the President of Latvia. The second point of this bill is the tolerance of state secrets. As colleague Gaidis Berzins has already said, it significantly narrows the range of applicants. Thus, if a person does not work in the public administration or in one of the bodies in which the duties require the existence of that tolerance, he simply does not have that tolerance. Consequently, we can only elect as President of State a person who works in the state administration or in some institutions related to state security where he is granted this permission. ( THE INTERPRETATION OF THE GROUP IS: “Better is he to be of... !” ) Because, regardless of whether she qualifies or does not qualify for this tolerance, if she does not have this tolerance at that time, she cannot be registered as a candidate. Consequently, I call on my fellow Members to state in the future how they say this in a legally correct way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U17	Thank you. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of Latvia” to the Commission of State Administration and Municipalities, as well as to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -8, for -46, for -16, for -16. So the draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. So the bill is passed. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies on Passenger Vehicle Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law passed. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law passed. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on deposit guarantees presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Law on the Restoration and Resolution of Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections from Members? There is no objection. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections from Members? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections from Members? Members shall not object. The draft law has been submitted to the commission responsible. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections from Members? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Gaida Berzina, Einars Cilinska, Ainars Latkovska, Jānis Dombrava and Kārlis Šadurski requesting that an interruption be declared by the Saeima at its meeting on 15 January following the examination of item 25 of the agenda by 9 a.m. Do Members not object to the adjournment of the adjournment by 9:50 a.m.? Members shall not object. Thank you. So before the adjournment is announced, it is necessary to register the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Before reading the results of the registration, the name of the Member Gaidis Bērzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U18	Honorable Members of the Legal Commission! Let's go to a short commission meeting on the premises of the Legal Commission. Now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U19	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U20	Members of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption are also invited to a meeting of the Commission in the premises of the Commission. Now!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U21	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U22	Hello, honourable Members! Please, if you are here! Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Ringolds Balodis, Boriss Cilevičs, Rihards Eigims, Armands Krauze, Romanas Mežeckis, Arvīds Platopers, Mārtiņš Šics... And, Andris Wolfs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U23	Thank you. Interruption until 9:50 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U24	Colleagues, I call you to take your seats in the Chamber. Mr. Money, Mr. Neighbour, Mr. Bondar! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. Thus, the Saeima Presidium has received the Member Daiņa Liepiņa, Jānis Ruka, Mārtiņš Šics, Nellija Kleinberga, Juris Viļuma and others with a request to change the agenda of the Saeima meeting today and to include in it the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Juris Viļuma from the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. Members Dainis Liepiņš, Jānis Ruks, Mārtiņš Šics, Nellija Kleinberga and Juris Viļums have asked to make changes to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 15 January and to include in it the draft decision “On Election of Member Juris Viļuma to the Legal Commission”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. Members Dainis Liepiņš, Jānis Ruks, Mārtiņš Šics, Nellija Kleinberga, Juris Viļums and others have asked for changes to the agenda of the meeting of the Saeima on 15 January and have included in it the draft decision on the election of Member Ivars Freeer in the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Are there any objections to an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Dainis Liepiņš, Jānis Ruks, Mārtiņš Šics, Nellija Kleinberga and Juris Viļums have asked to make changes to the agenda of the meeting of the Saeima on 15 January and to include in it the draft decision on the election of Member Ivars Freeer in the Committee on Mandate, Ethics and Application. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Saeima Bureau has also received an application from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, in which it is requested to make changes to the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 15 January this year and to include it in the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” at first reading. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is also asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 15 January this year and to include in it the draft law “Amendment to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” at first reading. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission has requested to amend the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 15 January this year and to include the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to Criminal Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission has requested to amend the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 15 January this year and to include in it the examination of the draft law “Amendment to Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The next item is the draft decision on the appointment of Aija Ilstere as judge at the district (city) court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U25	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 14 January this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Aija Ilstere as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Aija Ilsteri to appoint a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U26	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Aija Ilstere as a judge of district (city) court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the appointment of Natalia Zavadsk as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U27	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 14 January this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Natalia Zavadska as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Natalija Zavadska to appoint a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U28	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Natalia Zavadska as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Juris Viļumas from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Juris Viļuma from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Member Juris Viļumas to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Juris Viļuma to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - no, for - 2. So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Member Ivars Freeer in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Ivars Freeer in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the election of the Member Ivars Freeer to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Ivars Freeer to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 86, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U29	Good morning, dear colleagues! Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Military Service Law’ at second reading is under consideration. Five corrections have been tabled...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U30	Five proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U31	So 1 is the amendment tabled by the Minister of Defence Raimonds Vējonis, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U32	The proposal is therefore supported by the Commission. Keep going!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U33	The proposal is made by Mr Adamsons, a member of the Saeima. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U34	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U35	3. is a proposal from a member of the Saeima Mr. John Adamson, who is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U36	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U37	The next proposal by the Saeima Member, Mr Adamson, is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U38	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U39	Finally, the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Vejonis, who has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U40	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U41	I ask the Saeima to support these amendments at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U42	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at second reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U43	Proposals for third reading shall be submitted by 20 January of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U44	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 January this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Information Technology Security, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U45	Dear Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security” at second reading. There were six proposals. 1. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Vejonis. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U46	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U47	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, which the Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U48	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U49	Also 3. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U50	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U51	The same is true for 4. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U52	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U53	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U54	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U55	6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U56	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U57	Proposal to support the draft law at second reading
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U58	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U59	For the third reading, please submit proposals by 20 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U60	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January this year. The next item is the second reading of the draft law on the implementation in Latvia of the Master's Study Programme for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the European Union Member States. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U61	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima prepared the draft law mentioned for the second reading. It is a bill on the possibility to implement Frontex Master's Programme, an international programme in Latvia. A solution was found to implement this programme without prejudice to the system of award of degrees in higher education in Latvia. And in this context, there is then the first proposal of the Legal Office, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U63	Proposal No 2 of the Legal Office. Also supported by the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U64	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U65	Proposal No 3 of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U66	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U67	The proposal has been submitted by Ms Siliņa, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. This proposal has been partly supported and included in the Commission5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U68	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U69	And finally 5. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which was, of course, supported by the Commission itself.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U70	Let us start a debate. Inguna Silverba, Member of the European Parliament, took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U71	Hello, dear colleagues! Each of us is aware that, of course, efforts to strengthen national security and the country's economy, not only in certain regions, but also in the country as a whole, are to be supported. Therefore, in the context of the Border Guard, the establishment and implementation of this international programme at the University of Rezekne is particularly welcome. However, we call for no exceptions to be made to one university, but for the substance to be addressed. Such exceptions create mistrust for the legislator in people. With the adoption of such a draft law, on the one hand, we provide an opportunity to prepare a relatively small number of the highest level border guards, but on the other hand we show to the whole Latvian society that the law is not a solid foundation and a guarantee for the functioning of the state, because it can be easily applied as necessary, thus also creating a new law. This is also confirmed by the creation of this law. We had the opportunity to address this issue in substance without creating any precedent. Arvīds Platopers drew your attention to possible solutions already before the first vote: either to amend the existing law - the Law on Higher Education - or to invite the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No.36 “Regulations of Recognition of Results of Studies Achieved in Previous Education or Professional Experience”. Unfortunately, the proposals were not heard. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at second reading, we are now voting on a completely new version not only of the draft law, but also... the name of the draft law has changed. I wonder if we will again be proposed a recast at third reading.Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, By such a law we create a reasonable risk - in the European common education area we do not trust the higher education laws adopted in Latvia, because the wording of this law allows to obtain a Master's degree with a significantly lower number of credits than in other Master's programmes in Latvia and in the European single education area. The wording of the law does not provide for the alignment of practices with a certain number of credit points. Once again, this is not a question of whether or not Members are in favour of the development of the Latgale region; it is an exceptional issue where other solutions are possible. I call for the principle of good governance to be adhered to and for the creation of such precedents to be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U72	Thank you. Mr Vucans, the next Member in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U73	Dear colleagues, I have also said in the past that it was possible, in principle, to implement this Master's programme in a different way, in compliance with Latvian legislation. However, when listening to both the Chief of State Border Guard and the Ministry of the Interior, as well as looking at the specific Master's programmes, these Frontex programmes, documents, it was found that, in fact, other Member States participating in the implementation of this programme allow the Master's programme to be completed in four and a half years. In Latvia, this term is usually five years. At the same time, information was identified that anyone admitted to the programme has a practice of at least three years in the operational management of the Border Guard, which means that they are, by their very nature, people who have already proved themselves, and have also certified themselves in the area in which they will apply for a Master's degree... And Latvian legislation also allows such an opportunity. That is what Mrs Silver has already said: there is an opportunity to turn knowledge and skills acquired in practice into credit points and formally transfer it all. However, this solution, which is proposed in this Commission proposal - proposal 5 - offers the same solution in practice and, at the same time, allows to align what is laid down in Latvian legislation with how the consortium whose centre is outside Latvia sees the implementation of this programme and who has assumed responsibility for the entire study programme. I therefore call for this solution, proposed by the Commission and supported by the border guard management, supported by the Ministry of the Interior, which also satisfies the programme's leading partners, the leading partners of this Frontex programme... This option is supported and voted in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U74	Thank you. In the next debate, Mr Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U75	It has been a good time since the draft law came to the Saeima, and it was already during the previous Saeima. I would like to say that this solution is very good. Yes, it is not perfect, but it will finally launch this programme, and I would like to thank the chairman of the Commission, Mr Wuzan, and all the members of the Commission on Education, Culture and Science for the work that was needed. This is necessary not only for Latgale and Rezekne, but also for Latvia as a whole. And overall, seeing what is happening in Europe, strengthening our external borders is a very important task for Latvia, not only now as a Presidency, but also for the European Union as a whole. So thank you to the Education, Culture and Science Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U76	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is nothing to be added on behalf of the Commission? None. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 80, against - no, abstaining - 5. The proposal is therefore supported. As all the proposals have been supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U77	... on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U78	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the implementation in Latvia of the Master's study programme for the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - no, for - 5. So the draft law at second reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U79	January 20, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U80	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January this year. The next item is the draft law amending the Labour Disputes Act, first reading. The Commission proposes that it be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Hosams Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U81	Hello, colleagues! Amendment to the Labour Disputes Law is a technical amendment, and it is related to the amendment to the Arbitration Courts Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, and consequently to the amendment to the Civil Procedure Law. Section 20 of the Labour Disputes Law contains references to articles of the Civil Procedure Law, which were excluded from January 1, 2015. In the second and third paragraphs of Section 20 of the draft law “Amendment to the Labour Disputes Law”, references to specific articles of the Civil Procedure Law are replaced by references to the regulation provided for in the Law on Arbitration Courts. Please accept that the draft law is urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U82	Thank you. The Commission is therefore asking for this draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Labour Disputes Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U83	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please adopt the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U84	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on labour disputes law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading and the time for the second reading at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U85	Right away...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U86	So...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U87	Please accept this draft law at second, final, reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U88	Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. A.Klementjevs: “No! A very good presentation!” ) There is no objection by Members. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on labour disputes law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second, final, reading is supported. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service”, first reading. The Commission proposes that it be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U89	The laws in force state that electronic monitoring should have entered into force on 1 February this year. Unfortunately, because of procurement problems, we are today... In this announced interruption, we supported the amendments in the Commission, which stipulate that the date from which electronic monitoring will take effect will be 1 July. There is no other option. I therefore call for the urgent nature of the draft law to be established.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U90	The commission has therefore requested that the draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U91	On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U92	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U93	Given that the draft law is of a technical nature, I am calling for support to be given today in the second, final, reading, if Members do not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U94	Do Members have no objections to support today in the second, final, reading? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at second, final, final reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia, first reading. The Commission proposes that it be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U95	Like the previous draft law: these amendments are also technical - the date of implementation is postponed from 1 February to 1 July of this year. I call for the draft law to be made urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U96	Hence the urgency of the vote. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Code on the Enforcement of Penalties of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U97	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U98	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law at first reading is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U99	In view of the technical nature of the draft law, I call for support for the draft law, today, also in the second, final reading, if Members do not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U100	Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”! Please vote mode!... Voting mode!... Please vote mode! Thank you. Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law at second, final, final reading is supported. The next item is the draft law amending the Criminal Law, first reading. The Commission proposes that it be declared urgent. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U101	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This draft law is related to previous draft laws, which provide for the delay of the implementation of electronic surveillance for the relevant period. This situation has arisen in connection with procurement procedures... with the relevant problem situations in these procedures. The Commission has examined the draft law in question and asked for its urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U102	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U103	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U104	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U105	Colleagues, given that the draft law is in some way technical in nature, if colleagues do not object, I call for the draft law to be examined and supported at second, final, reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U106	Are there any objections to supporting the draft law at second, final, final reading? There is no objection. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on criminal law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Law, first reading. The Commission proposes to recognise this as a matter of urgency. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U107	Colleagues, this draft law, too, relates to the previous three draft laws, which you have supported as a matter of urgency. And for this draft law too, the Legal Commission has asked for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U108	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U109	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U110	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U111	Colleagues, just as in the case of a previous draft law, if you have no objections, I also call for this draft law to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U112	Are Members against supporting the draft law at second, final, final reading? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second, final, reading is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U114	Thank you. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda is the draft decision submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Municipality “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” (No 67/Lp12). No one wants to report on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft decision is therefore supported. Thank you. Consequently, all the items on the agenda have been dealt with and we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Before notifying the results of the registration, I informed you that a question has been submitted to Members. Ivars Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Jānis Tutins and others submitted it, “On the validity of the research results of the Rail Baltica project and the action of the Ministry of Transport in relation to them”. The question is addressed to the Minister of Transport, Anry Matīss. A question has been submitted to Members on the implementation of the detailed technical study of the railway section of Rail Baltica in the European Standard Width. It has been submitted by Members Ivars Zarins, Arthur Rubiks, Jānis Tutins and others. It is also passed on to the Minister of Transport, Anria Matīss. The question by Members Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Urbanoviča, Raimonds Rubika and Tutina “On funding for Daugavpils Regional Hospital” has been submitted and is referred to Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs to reply. The name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Ener for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U115	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. I call on you to cooperate with the Croatian Parliaments in the group. Right next to the Yellow Hall, right after the sitting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U116	The name of the Member, Janis Riverer, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U117	Dear colleagues, We are setting up groups of Members to cooperate with the Kazakhstan Parliament. Yellow hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U118	Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U119	Dear Members, Today it has not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Boriss Cilevičs, Rihards Eigims, Armands Krauze, Romanas Mežeckis, Arvīds Platopers, Andris Vilks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-15-PT12-280-U120	Thank you. The sitting of the Saeima is thus closed.
