ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U1	Good morning, colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the meeting on May 28, the Saeima. Before considering the agenda for a meeting approved by the Bureau, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the meeting should be considered. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft law “Law on the management of the Internal Security Fund and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund 2014-2020 programming period”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law on scientific research of documents of the former State Security Committee. Are there any objections to Members? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of amending the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law on scientific research on the documents of the former State Security Committee! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - no, for - 20. Consequently, the decision has been taken and the agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda and to include in the agenda the draft law “On the part of real estate “Kaktini” in Lēdmane municipality, Lielvarde municipality, disposal for public needs – for implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the state road Riga (Tinži)-Koknese”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks to amend the agenda of the sitting, including draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No 26/Lp12) until 8 June 2015. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Presidium of the Saeima also informs that an application has been received by the Member Gaidas Berzins, in which he has referred to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” and the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Meetings, Processes and Pickets””. According to the rule of order of the Saeima, the draft law may be directed by at least five Members. Given that Mr Berzins has made reference to his signature, these draft laws should not be moved further and both should be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting to include the question “On renewal of the parliamentary mandate of Mr Raivja Dzintaras 12.”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. The item ‘On renewal of Mr Rajja Dzintars’ is on the agenda. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! In accordance with the second and third paragraphs of Article 5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure and the application of Raivja Dzintars on 21 May 2015 for renewal of the Member’s mandate, which he had placed on parental leave, the mandate of the Member is renewed. Member's duties shall be terminated by Gunārs Rusiņš, who, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, had joined the Saeima from the National Association "All for Latvia!" - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” electoral district list.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Saeima, I would like to thank Gunārs Rusiņš for his work and invite Raivis Dzintari to take a place in the Saeima sitting room! (Applause) Thank you. The next item is the Bureau reports on draft laws tabled. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” be submitted to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs by the Member Valija Agešina, Vitaly Orlova, Jānis Urbanoviča, Sergeja Mirska and Andrejs Klementyeva. Are there any objections to Members? Members have reservations. So we have to vote. Has applied to speak... So, Mr. Valery Agešin has applied to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U4	Good morning, dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to one specific and real socio-economic and legal problem, which is linked to the cost of maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund for children after reaching adulthood. We know that up to the age of the child, one of the parents receives the child’s support. And the other parent shall pay the maintenance with a court judgment or on a voluntary basis, or they shall be paid from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund and subsequently recovered from the unpaid parent. Payment of maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund shall be discontinued with the attainment of the child’s adulthood. Paragraph 1 of Paragraph 1 of Section 10 of the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund shall determine this. At present, the law does not provide for an opportunity to assess the circumstances in cases where the child continues to learn and is unable to provide himself. Thus, when children reach adulthood, the administration of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund terminates the payment of maintenance from the state budget because the legal basis has been lost. But the reality is that a young person usually obtains general secondary education up to the age of 19. However, according to the Law on Vocational Education, the duration of acquisition of professional secondary education after acquisition of primary education is three to four years, after acquisition of vocational education – one to two years. Against this background, it should be concluded that young people usually have access to vocational secondary education at the age of 20. It can therefore be concluded that, despite reaching adulthood, children whose mothers are paid maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund continue to receive training in general education and vocational education institutions, and they need financial support from their parents, thus also payment of maintenance from the Fund administration. This maintenance payment is a financial support to the child and is paid by the fund instead of one parent or both. Pursuant to Section 179(1) of the Civil Law, parents are obliged to maintain their child according to the state of their property, and this obligation rests on the father and mother until the child can provide himself. Thus, in civil law, the legislator has not, however, set a precise time limit for the cessation of parental maintenance obligations, which is an absolute duty of the unconditional nature of the parents. Such a statutory obligation cannot be interpreted by the parents in their own judgement, for example, to stop the maintenance of the child until the age of maturity. The requirements for maintenance and the amount of their receipt are related only to the property status of the parents and to the time when the child is able to provide itself. The fact that reaching adulthood is not a fact that recovery of maintenance is discontinued is also confirmed by court rulings stating that recovery of maintenance should be carried out until the child is able to provide himself or herself, or until the child completes studies or training. With this draft law, we want to achieve a social objective, because children from families where one parent does not provide food resources will have the opportunity to continue training. In addition, the financial burden will also be reduced for persons who care for a child if the other parent or both parents do not pay child support. Therefore, we call for amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund and to ensure the payment of maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund for young people even after they have reached adulthood, if they continue to be educated, continue to receive secondary education in general or vocational institutions until they have obtained secondary education. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U5	Thank you. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, dear colleagues. The aim of this draft law is highly ambitious, but when evaluating the draft law presented, it should be concluded that the proposed amendments do not solve the problem as it stands. Because, first of all, what is important? The draft law shall not provide for an age limit for the receipt of maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. This means that there is no maximum age until which it should be considered that the child has not acquired secondary education for objective reasons and is not capable of providing for himself, which would result in the right to receive maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. Without establishing the age limit, as laid down in the Law on State Social Benefits for example, the child is not motivated to receive secondary education so as not to interrupt the disbursement of maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. Thus, this draft law does not contribute to the acquisition of education. Secondly, the preliminary impact assessment of the draft law indicates that the amount of funds to be paid out from the state budget to the applicants could be about 972 thousand euros per year. Calculations have been made on the assumption that half of the 1500 parents' children who reach adulthood continue to receive upper secondary education in the course of the year. However, this assumption has not been substantiated and there are grounds to believe that the actual amount of funds to be paid could be substantially higher. It should also be noted that the calculation does not take into account that secondary education may not be obtained within one year of reaching adulthood, in particular if it is obtained at a vocational education establishment or if the child has not been transferred to the next class at any stage of education. In this case, the amount of funds to be paid for could increase significantly with each subsequent year, as maintenance would be paid for both children who have reached the age of 18 in the current year, as well as continued to pay maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund for the maintenance of children who have reached adulthood in the previous years, but who continue to receive secondary education. Colleagues, I would also like to point out that for a long time on the agenda of the Ministry of Justice is a question of providing support for a child after reaching adulthood and not just... A number of measures have also been taken, including regarding the disclosure of debtors' data. We know that these amendments will enter into force in the near future. The Ministry of Justice also intends to introduce a new procedure for the disbursement of maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund; this would allow to receive maintenance in the amount specified by the Cabinet of Ministers without a court decision, and this is important to us. And it's over. Of course, it is also planned to come up with a proposal to support the maintenance of a child in cases where a child whose parents are not retained continues to receive education after reaching adulthood. However, the issues that I have formulated here as issues must certainly be duly taken into account. That is why I am now calling for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U7	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We therefore need to vote on this issue. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” to the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 11, for - 43. Consequently, the draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Constitution of Rezekne Academy of Technologies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the electricity market law presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere to grant her unpaid leave on 25 and 26 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted such leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Mr Ivan Ribakov, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 28 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda the draft decision “On approval of Ivars Bickovics as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U8	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 19 May, the draft decision “On approval of Ivars Bickovics as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have supported this draft decision by voting in favour of seven Members and voting in favour of three Members. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I am inviting to confirm Ivars Bickovics as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. The Decision shall enter into force on 16 June 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U9	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U10	Dear colleagues, Today we have the privilege - to approve and evaluate the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court who has served his term of office - seven full years. So today we also look at what has been done, what has been done, not just on promises, but not just on good intentions. In 2008, when the Saeima voted for Ivars Bickovics as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, it was the closed vote. ‘ He was put to the vote by 63 Members and voted against - 35. Thus, Mr. Bickovics began to perform his duties as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court with such a shared parliamentary mandate of trust. Similarly, at the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court he did not have full support at that time, because there were only 26 votes in favour, and 13 votes in favour. Thus already in 2008, Mr. Bickovics took on this heavy burden, realizing that he will have to prove with his works that within seven years he is able to achieve authority of the Supreme Court both in the eyes of the public and on the background of other European Union courts, and we really wanted to wait for it. Today, in 2015, following the procedure laid down in the Law “On Judicial Power”, that the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court leads the candidate for the position of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, the Saeima confirms this and also the Council for the Judiciary, which has been established in the meantime, gives its opinion, we have come before the examination of this issue, when we have to decide again about compliance of Mr. Bickovics with this very high, very honorable position of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, which also means that he is the main symbol of all very important judicial system – head and also responsible official. And when the Council for the Judiciary evaluated two nominated candidates, it supported both candidates. These were the current President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Bickovics, and the previous President, Mr. Gulans. In this decision of the Council for the Judiciary, which gave both candidates green light, we also saw clearly that there is perhaps also a very important incompatibility of views on the way forward. The same is clearly demonstrated by the decision of the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court, which has been the closed decision, but only 23 votes for the continuation of the work of Mr. Bickovics from 40 members of the Plenary Session. Of course, this is a democratic majority, because 23 is more than 50 per cent plus one vote, but today, in the Saeima, we cannot only carry out the postman's role and confirm it, because, as we also have the Law on Judicial Power, we approve by way of an open vote. Therefore, each Member must also be aware of which vote is approved under the guidance of the Supreme Court for the next five years. The Unity Group has been very scrupulous about these seven years in the judicial system as a whole and has listened to all judges - both those who have come to the Legal Commission and those who have come to other parliamentary commissions, and we have clearly heard that judges are not satisfied with the fact that there is a known favouritism among judges of the Supreme Court. Of the three departments - from the Department of Criminal Cases, the Department of Civil Cases and the Department of Administrative Cases - we see that in one case is moving within two months, in the second case is moving within six months, in the other - within three years. And all this is said not only by the press, but also by the judges themselves. Dear colleagues, We are here representing the people who have elected us in Parliament. Of course, we will never interfere with the functioning of the judiciary. With this vote, too, we will not interfere with the functioning of the judiciary, the adjudication of cases and the independence of the courts, but with such a mixed support, I believe that we can also point out these errors in our open vote... Each Member should also clearly state whether we support these seven years, because we believe that the court system is arranged, that the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court has fulfilled what the law has imposed on him, and has also given the prestige of the Supreme Court, as well as every judge has given him the opportunity to perform his duties and not to worry that society does not understand him. The fact that these black sheep in particular make these good judges righteous makes them feel bad. Judges who do their work well and in good faith are not currently evaluated because judges who do not do it simply remain in the ranks of judges. Dear colleagues, I...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U11	Mrs. Egnere, your...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U12	Ladies and gentlemen, I close my speech. The Group will vote 'no'. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U13	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U14	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, It is at these times that I must express my great regret about the fact that the University of Latvia's professor, Mrs. Čepāne, has left the lines of Unity, which, to a large extent, would allow to explain their legal basis or their basis... (The laughter of the Members of the Group.) , what is then the procedure for appointing the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court in Parliament. Very many of you know that there are several branches of power in Latvia – legislator power, judiciary and executive power; let us not diminish the role of the mass media. However, the candidate for the position of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court shall be nominated by the Saeima by the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court. The Plenary Session of the Supreme Court consists of judges of the Supreme Court, and each of them has expressed its support, the parliament has said its “yes” name for each of them. In particular, the representatives of the Supreme Court, supported by Parliament, have decided to delegate the functions of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court to Mr. Bickovics within the framework of their independent judiciary. In legislation - if you look at the procedure, you will see - there are no even cases that happen if the Saeima does not approve the candidate driven by the plenary session of the Supreme Court. Thus, if a candidate is not approved, the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court should come again in theory, and they can again direct the same Mr. Bickovics - the same candidacy for approval. What does that mean, and what do I want to say about it? To a large extent, the legislator's action on audit... with respect to a candidate directed by the Chamber of the Supreme Court is limited. The arguments for or against - especially the argument against! - be particularly serious in order to undermine and interfere on the part of the legislative authority with the competence of an independent judicial authority. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court shall not be a candidate for a party. It is not a candidate for Unity. This is not part of the allocation of allowances between the coalition-forming parties. Today, we have heard the argument put forward by the representative of Unity regarding the fact that Mr Bickovic has no clear support. In other words, from 41 judges of the Chamber of the Supreme Court voted for his candidacy 23. So... Ladies and gentlemen, especially from Unity, I would ask you perhaps to start with yourself, and if you apply this kind of argument to a candidate driven by the Chamber of the Supreme Court, please answer: how many Saeima voters have supported you as a percentage in the Saeima elections? I looked at 22 percent. And 78 percent - that means, according to your logic, don't support Mr. Bickovic - are against you. Plus for that... can still count how many have not come to the elections. And, according to that logic, then you will be supported in society to a large extent... up to about 14-15 percent. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis intersorpts.) But you are elected Members of the Saeima under a democratic procedure, all the more so! - lead the country of Latvia. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the issue is absolutely legal. And the question is, to what extent... not about the extent to which the candidate for the post of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court likes or does not like the Unity, but about the extent to which the Saeima will allow to intervene in an independent candidate led by the judiciary... permission to perform the audit... ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “We don’t intervene!” ) I call on colleagues not to audit the position of President of the Chamber of the Supreme Court and not to impose it on political lobbying, because Bickovics is not a candidate for Unity. ( From a political group’s Unity: “Your candidate?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U15	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mr. Elksnins, it must be that its love will increase when people meet less frequently. You have already been able to invite Mrs Čepane to your group and talk to him about this decision, and Mrs Čepane would have made it clear to you clearly and lightly that the Members of the Saeima are not any potters (from the grass depot. A.Judins: “Some are!” ), as you spoke here, which must confirm decisions taken elsewhere. Well, there must be some. Mr. Elksnins, I think he wants to be... In this case, the Saeima is a place where the work of an official is assessed, it is assessed on the basis of criteria that the particular group considers important, and these criteria have been explained to you all, including Mr Elksniņš, also to you. And that is the assessment that the Group has accepted, and Mrs Chepane was also present in this debate. But, honourable colleagues, when speaking about Ivars Bickovics' approval as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, I would like to refer to a quote that the Speaker of the Saeima, Ināra Mūrniece, said this May 4, marking the 25th anniversary of the restored state. And she said: “Using the financial resources of the Communist Party, the State Security Committee and the Communist Youth Union, and the network of former contacts, Soviet composers and collaborators turned into wealthy entrepreneurs. It was instead of democracy that they rooted pseudo-democraticism in Latvia, but the jungle economy was entrusted with the free market economy. It created bitterness in a large part of the people, which grew into disbelief in their country.” Dear colleagues, the reaction that followed these words leads me to think that, in at least part of the cases, the Speakers of the Saeima were right. You will probably ask why I refer here to these words and what they have to do with the specific vote. You know, they have a very concrete connection, because unfortunately, the situation is that we cannot turn the circle of time back, but today there is a question that we are all doing now to give all Latvians equal opportunities, regardless of what their parents have been in Soviet times, or how they are located today. ( From the drug depot. A.Barch's intermediate calls.) And, honourable colleagues, the answer to what we are doing today, Mrs Barch, is whether we are providing a free market economy, where every person with an idea and a commitment has the opportunity to realise their ideas, and whether we are ensuring the rule of law. Whether we ensure the rule of law in the sense that a person has the right to protect and the ability to protect his investment, his own business, by means of justice, and whether we, as a state, are protecting the fact that we are not facing new conditions of jungle capitalism. And then the question is, have we succeeded? ( The laughter of the political group.) For the fourth year now, in the framework of the so-called European Semester, Latvia has been recommended to improve the efficiency, accountability and transparency of the judicial system. This is the structural reform that is needed for Latvia (and which, for example, Greece is struggling at the moment) so that we can provide an environment that promotes the influx of investment in Latvia, which promotes employment that creates jobs. And then the question is: what happened in our judicial system in the last seven years while Ivars Bickovics was the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? We see a new form of jungle capitalism, the so-called mafia of insolvency administrators. ( From the drug depot. A.Break intermediates: ‘... but to the nationals!” ) We know that there have been situations where companies re-register their registered office to reach specific judges so that judges take decisions for their benefit so that they can effectively dispose of their debts. In a way, there is a new model of colhoza where lawyers, businesses and judges work together to improve their well-being. Dear colleagues, the new judges must be of good repute and integrity! Mr Bickovics has not been sufficiently active in maintaining this claim for judges, because unfortunately the questions that have appeared in public space for the reputation of Mr Bickovics himself have remained unanswered. Dear colleagues, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court does not directly supervise the first instance of courts, however, he may exercise his authority, influence or participate in the process of selection of candidates for the office of judges. He may participate in the process of evaluation of qualification of judges, he shall have disciplinary authority. And the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, as we know, is the Chief Justice of the Council for the Judiciary. Dear colleagues, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court is connected to the entire judicial system. If we, the public, have no confidence that the justice system is one that defends our interests, then, honourable colleagues, we have the question: to what extent can we count on public confidence in our country to be restored? I will vote against and call on you to do the same. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U17	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U18	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my opinion that I do not fully agree with the arguments put forward by Mr Elksniņš (From the drug depot. Elksniņš: “What do you understand?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “) because I think we really should not be a voting machine in the Saeima. And if this vote, as Mr. Elksniņš says, is formal, then why this vote at all... this draft decision has come to the Saeima? Once for the officials, all the officials! - a secret vote was taken in the Saeima. At the moment, as we know, this is just about the President of Latvia. At one time, Members were really able to express their views, as you would say at the moment, much safer, much more openly. And then, too, this vote would show whether or not there is support in the Saeima for the particular candidate. I will remind you of the ancient truth that we should all know, that power belongs to the people and that we are representatives of the people, a hundred who decide and express the will of the people. And, of course, we have to take responsibility before our constituents. The members of the Group of the Regions of Latvia met with the two publicly named candidates - Ivars Bickovics and Andris Gulans - before deciding to support the nominated President of the Supreme Court, and both presented their vision of work in this high and responsible position. The Association of Latvian Regions believes that serious reforms in the Latvian judicial system are necessary, which can be implemented by a person with strong spine and leading abilities. Unfortunately, after a meeting with Mr. Bickovics on the spot, we, the Group of the Regions of Latvia, did not believe that Bickovics would be able to implement qualitative reforms in the judicial system. That is why the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia decided to vote against Bickovics' candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U20	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Having listened to the previous speakers, I think I would support what Mr. Elksniņš said, because in fact he has systematically come to this question and, in essence, he can quote from the lectures of lawyers at the University of Latvia. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Demagogical textbooks!” ) And if we look at it, we can see that at the present moment, this situation, which is based on the principle of traditional, fundamental division of powers, that there is executive power, legislative power and judicial power, reminds an anecdotes, where a wife tells her friend: “My husband is very consistent: he goes to a cafe, a tavern only if he loses a coat of arms when he throws a tomb. He's only going to the cafe when the coat falls! But he always goes.” - “What do you mean? He always falls out of his arms?” - “No, he throws as long as the coat falls.” And in this case, what do we want to achieve right now? No matter what party, the candidate they want comes. ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) I think that is wrong. And in this case, if we talk about whether or not it is good that there is Bickovic, I think it must be said that the Plenary of the Supreme Court, as Mr. Elksniņš also said, has chosen his candidate. And we can throw that tomb until we get lost what we want. But if we do... Of course, we can also vote against. But if we do so and vote against it, we need to make serious procedural changes, because, in principle, Parliament... And the history of the world has shown this: Parliament is always trying to overturn the power that the other powers have. In this case, the parliament is trying to enforce the rights of the judiciary. And in this case, if we do so, it must be dealt with in a procedural way. One of the options is that we expect the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court to nominate two candidates. The second option is that the President of Latvia nominated the candidate for the post of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. I think that would be right. And if we could vote in favour of the candidate nominated by the President of Latvia, then, of course, such a vote would be normal and natural, because we then, instead of expressing distrust to the judiciary, the President of Latvia, who does not belong to any of the powers of the state. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Šadurskis with his hands catches his head: “Break! Oh, my God!” ) And in this case, I think this shameless tombing is just not in place or in time. If you do not vote and are against Bickovic, then procedural changes must be brought before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U21	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U22	Yes, good morning, colleagues! When I heard Mrs Chiganne's emotional speech about insolvency administrators, I asked only one question: why did you, to say that, look at that side? You had to look at that side! ( See VL-TB/LNNK fraction.) For it is not the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court that can translate the entire system into a friendly system. It must start in the Ministry of Justice, not there! Neither am I excited about Mr. Bickovics, but I am also excited about Mr. Gulans. Mr. Gulan, I will remind you that two deadlines had been given. He had the opportunity to prove himself, but let us remember now that the books “Judge as a Twilight”, let's remember the interesting judgments of Mr. Gulans when judges, let's say, were sentenced to ten years of organised crime. ( THE INTERPRETATION OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF MEMBERS.) Let's remember, let's say, a man who was caught with a kilogram of amphetamine... for his dismissal, behold, he has a dependent child. I could stand here and count such examples for a very long time. ( Talks loud.) No, I'm talking about you want to see this candidate here because... ( The ring of noise.) Let me finish, honey? I didn't stop at any place... The judges evaluated these two candidates, and one of them was, however, closer to and more loved by your heart. And I've always said openly that I'd like to... I would have liked to see one third, but if the judges themselves decided by a majority that they were moving Bickovics, then I do not see an opportunity to oppose the collegiate decision of the judges. Thank you. ( The ZZS fraction is full.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U23	Thank you. Name to Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U24	Colleagues! Much has been said here, so perhaps there is a need for clarity. Firstly, Mrs Čepane in 2008 not only in the closed vote - I will be able to reveal! - voted 'no', but here, too, called on the rest of the Chamber to vote 'no'. So, Mr. Elksniņš, that really is what history in the vernaculars also clearly shows! The second case is about the independence of the judiciary and the fact that the Saeima has no right to vote against. None of the Chief Justices of the Supreme Court has so far been elected in a unanimous vote when this electoral order exists... Until now. I also wanted to hear, as colleagues listen to you, the arguments why we should vote in favour. I didn't hear it! I only heard: “What can we poor do here? We're just such a legislator here. The judiciary has told us what to vote on, and then we, the poor, will press the button!” Colleagues, get it! Indeed, you can vote 'no' because this is an open vote. We can speak clearly about the arguments why - 'for' or why - 'for'. I speak against the arguments, other colleagues also spoke, but I did not hear anything about the arguments. Thus, the entity is not a candidate for any other, the entity is ‘to’ to that candidate. I call for a 'no' vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U25	Thank you. The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U26	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Undoubtedly, every Member must make his or her own choice, but I think that in relation to the question of appointing the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, it is necessary to discuss specific arguments – "for" or "for". Yes, we can talk about the fact that there are problems in some cases - I would like to emphasise - in some cases! - on time limits for hearing cases. In a way, there is a myth in the society that the time limits for hearing cases are very long. If we look at average terms in Europe, then we are not at the last place. If we travel around Latvia, we can see that any district (city) court hears a case that is received within three months of the month, two or two. These are very reasonable deadlines! Yes, of course, there is a problem in the Department of Civil Cases. Is it just a problem of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? Of course, it is a problem of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, but it is also a problem for all of us. At one time, the Supreme Court also came with an invitation to increase the number of judges; this, of course, was a question of funding. The Saeima did not support this. And let us remember that this is linked to the consequences of the economic crisis! As the economic crisis erupted, the number of cases increased catastrophicly, as statistics show. There was an opinion on the protection of investment. I do not see how the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court can set himself as a fundamental objective or one of the fundamental objectives of investment protection. His objectives are others, which are laid down in the law “On Judicial Power”. Incidentally, if we appreciate what has been done and what has not been done, I would recommend that we all read the European Commission's 2015 report on the scoreboard in the Member States when it comes to the area of justice. There are positions in my view where we are looking very well, such as communication with the public and access to justice. It is not our assessment, it has been evaluated by the European Commission. Yes, we can talk about communication with society, for example. We feel that this is not enough, but then we need to find out what is being done. Those who follow these issues know that the Council for the Judiciary has supported court communication guidelines. Of course, the adoption of one document and the desire to put it into practice... even from the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court or the entire Council for the Judiciary... That's not enough! It is necessary to work with judges of district (city) courts, with Chairmen of courts, and this is what is happening at the moment. In my opinion, there are also positive examples where we see judges explaining their judgments. This is, of course, a big job, a lot of time. I therefore call for the specific arguments - 'for' or 'no' - to be discussed, indicating where the problems then exist, how they should be addressed, and not to speak very generally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U27	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Ivars Bickovics as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 27, for - 4. (Applause) Consequently, a decision has been taken. On behalf of the Saeima, I welcome the high-level election! I wish to work for the best conscience, ensuring further development of judicial power and carrying out necessary reforms! The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Colleagues! The letter of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has been received, in which, based on Article 86 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Commission asks to direct the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” at the first reading of the Saeima sitting without re-examination by the responsible committee. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the draft law is included under ‘Provision of draft laws’. Thank you. On the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Administration of Prisons”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U28	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! The amendment to the Law on the Administration of Prisons is aimed at enabling officials of the Interior Security Bureau of the Ministry of Interior to visit prison places without a special permission. We are looking at this draft law at third reading and no proposals have been received at third reading. I invite you to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Administration of Prisons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U30	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, dear colleagues. We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”. The Commission has received 11 proposals. And 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U32	Two more. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Justice, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U34	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is also editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U35	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U36	Just like 4. - the identical proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is editorial. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U38	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U39	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U40	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U42	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U44	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U46	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U48	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U50	And 11 is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U51	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U52	We have therefore examined all the proposals. Colleagues, I would remind you that a large part of these amendments relate to the introduction of electronic auctions, which, in the opinion of the Legal Commission, will reduce the reiderability of so-called auctions. And with regard to the auctions held by bailiffs, this regulation could enter into force on 1 July. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has therefore been approved at third reading. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U54	Dear colleagues, Amendments to the Law of the State Probation Service are reviewed at third reading, and amendments are aimed at ensuring the procedure for co-financing social rehabilitation services for clients of the state. Three proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U56	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U58	And 3. - also a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U59	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U60	I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior’s system of institutions and administration of prison places with special service levels in service law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U62	Draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Administration of Prisons with Special Service Steps in the Law on Service Implementation” is reviewed at third reading. The amendments are mainly designed to provide a legal basis for the work of the Office of Internal Security of the Ministry of Interior. Two proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Proposal 2 has been supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U63	Thank you. Start the debate... So Mrs Stepanenko didn't want to talk? So Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U64	2. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U66	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U67	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and the administration of prison places with special service levels in the law on service progress” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The law is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Schengen Information System Act, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U68	The draft law ‘Amendments to the Schengen Information System Act’ is discussed at third reading. The amendments were originally designed to give the Office of Internal Security of the Ministry of the Interior access to the Schengen Information System, but later, before the third reading, the draft law was supplemented, giving the same rights to the State Border Guard. In total, seven proposals have been received for the third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. The Commission was supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U69	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U70	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U72	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U74	4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U75	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U76	5. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U78	6. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U79	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U80	7. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U82	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the operation of the Schengen Information System! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The law is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U84	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection”. There are 14 proposals in total. A number of these are the proposals made by the responsible commission itself, which have come about by getting to know and working on the proposals submitted, as well as by taking into account the solution achieved by the Consumer Protection Centre and the Ministry of Economics when discussing the so-called fast credit sector. The very fact that these parties have managed to reach constructive dialogue from each other's ultimates and public accusations in this legislative process is a great success in this legislative process, which makes it possible to hope that these prepared proposals, which provide for a much more stringent and clearer regulation for this sector, will not only be adopted today, but will also be put into practice later. Let us now start by looking at these proposals. The proposal is from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U86	2. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U87	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U88	3. - Member Chersh's proposal. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U89	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U90	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Of course, supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U92	5. - The debtor's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U93	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U94	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima, honourable colleagues! I call for attention to be paid to this provision relating to sanctions if, in the case of a borrower, he has not fulfilled his obligations, which we have imposed as a restriction corresponding to fair business practice. Thus, the wording adopted at second reading incorporates, in my view, a very specific system which creates conditions that are not favourable to the consumer. And I will explain what is written in the current version. Thus: ‘The provision in the consumer credit agreement providing for the possibility of requiring interest for late payment from the consumer does not apply if that interest is higher than 36 percentage points above the borrowing rate per year’. What does that mean? This means that the daily rate - 36 percentage points per year - is 0.1 percent. This wording states that interest on late payments will be charged at a rate equal to the rate, the borrowing rate plus 0,1 per cent. Let us now imagine that if the creditor has been favored by the borrower and has not set the maximum rates that we have just introduced into the law, which is on day 1, 0.55... where the rate for the first seven days is 0.55, then 0,25 to 14 days, then 0,2, from 31 days - 0,25... If he has thus applied 0.1 per cent as interest on the loan, then he will only be able to apply 0.2 per cent of the penalty or late payment interest. On the other hand, if he has granted the loan for seven days and applied a maximum rate of 0.55 per cent, then he will be able to apply interest for late payment of 0.65 per cent. On the other hand, if he has granted credit for 14 days, applying the maximum rates that we have just supported, which is quite correct, maybe only the calculation system is complicated... 0.55 per cent for the first seven, 0.25 for the next seven, which represents an average of 0.4 per cent per day for 14 days. Then, if the borrower has failed to fulfil these liabilities and the money has not returned, then the one who has lent at the maximum rate... This creditor will be able to apply interest for late payment of 0,5 per cent. I'm calling... My proposal is, by its very nature, that we set a maximum or minimum rate whichever is the most favourable to the borrower. We state that the maximum rate is no more than 0,5 per cent per day, regardless of what the borrowing rate was. Because there are also loans that are issued without interest or with a minimum interest rate in the original version, this type of condition that we force the lenders to lend at the maximum rate in order to be able to apply higher sanctions is wrong in nature. So that I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U95	Thank you. Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U96	Good morning, colleagues! Contractoos are just one of this complex measure... interest on late payments shall be one of the instruments of the joint measure. In this case, Mr. Debtor talks about minimum interest rates - 0.1 and so on. However, as we look at the current reality of the market, we will be realistic, as even after the entry into force of this regulation, these lenders will apply these rates, which is 0,25, 0.2, i.e. the maximum threshold (from the drug depot. I.Observer’s intermediates: “Late... !” ), so to tell you that the lender could apply the rate of 0.1, in my opinion, is somewhat utopian. And the main purpose of these amendments remains, however, that these loans are granted to those people who can afford it, but are not granted to those who would carry out this credit under even greater debt. Consequently, this rate of delay is only one measure per package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U97	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U98	If I have from my seat the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to say that there is a difference between the contractual penalty and the interest for late payment, that is already a matter of concern. As far as utopianism is concerned, Mr Putra, you could take and look at the conditions for the various loans at the moment! And, as I said, there are also loans where no interest rate is applied on the initial borrowing, for example, for 14 days. In this version, interest on late payments can therefore be applied from zero, since interest on the loan is not added to 0,1 percentage points. That, in my opinion, is not appropriate. And I asked the Legal Office and the Ministry of Economics at the meeting of the Commission: "Please tell me if I have correctly interpreted this rule, which has been confirmed - that if the loan is granted for seven days at a maximum rate of 0.55 per cent, you will be able to apply 0.65 per cent of the late payment rate?" I was told: “Yes!” I say, “It’s disproportionate!” And so I call for this late interest rate to be applied... equal... not more than 0,5. At the moment, in the so-called market where these loans are granted, the rates are... the interest rate on late payment is less than 0,75 and more than 1,5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U99	Thank you. The name to Member Edgars Putra, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U100	That's it! The lowest rate for us is currently 0.75, but basically 1 percent or more, even a large part of the market offers 1.5 late interest. If we are talking about these first loans, we can compare it with feeding. The first credit - for free, but in the future, as statistics show, each third extends it at least once... each second shall extend at least once and each third shall extend three or more times. So that means that this man could not afford it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U101	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U102	Yeah. Colleagues, I understand this discussion has been very long, and this law has already been seen if I'm not wrong, two years, right? And that is why I would like to return to what the Ministry of Economics had in the beginning. In particular, the Ministry stipulated that the interest for late payment should be 0.05 percent, which is ten times less than that offered by the Master of the Debtor. It's a day, and it's 18 percent a year. At the moment, the Ministry of Economics seems to have come very much against this sector and doubled the interest for late payment by 36 per cent per year. If we estimate the debtor’s offer, it reaches 182 percent a year, which is ten times more than in the original version. I do not know whether we in the Commission could find reasons to explain to the public why we are so favoring industry. In addition, colleagues, it is important to remember one important nuance that if you borrow EUR 200, there is now a restriction that, including the interest on late payment, you will not repay more than another EUR 200 per year. This means that it also includes interest on late payments, and if it is 182 per cent of the credit value, it would already be limited to 100 per cent. I therefore call for support from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U103	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur have anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U104	Yeah. As my fellow Members have already said, this proposal has been discussed in a lot and dictates within the Commission and it was not supported by the Commission precisely for the reason that this proposal by Mr Debtor seems to be beneficial to borrowers in only one specific theoretical case, which will in practice never happen, namely when the borrower takes credit with confidence that he will be able to repay it immediately, and is therefore prepared to pay higher interest so that he does not have to have this credit, so to say, to hold it for longer. But in all the opposite cases, these commissions... This proposal, which is currently in the draft law, is much more beneficial for the creditor, and so the Commission's proposal is to reject Mr Debtor's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U105	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Imants Debtor's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 3, for -77, for -5. The proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U106	Next...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U107	6!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U108	6. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Reizniece-Ozola, and Member Ķiršas and Member Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U109	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal presented by the Minister for Economics, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member of Vilnius Chers and Member of the Republic of Lithuania, Karlis Šadurskis! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 5, for - 7. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U110	7. - Member Shadursky's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U111	Members are asking... Let us start a debate. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U112	Dear President, dear colleagues. Because of the support given to the previous proposal, I withdrawn this. This was only meant to be an alternative proposal if the previous one is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U113	Thank you. Consequently, the proposal has been withdrawn. And also Andris Bērziņš doesn't hold the desire to talk anymore.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U114	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U115	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U116	9. - the proposal from Member Zakis and Member Līdaka. Partly supported and included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U117	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U118	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Shadursky's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U119	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U120	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U121	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U122	12. - a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U123	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U124	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Of course, supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U126	And 14. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U128	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support to be given to the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U129	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on consumer protection! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at third reading has been supported. The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Latvian National Opera Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ivars Laisvers.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U130	Dear Members, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has prepared for third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian National Opera Law”. 23 proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - Mr Nikiforov's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U131	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Niquiforov's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 42, abstaining - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U132	2. - Member Elksniņš's proposal, which has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U133	This proposal is therefore not a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U134	3. - Mr Kirstein's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U135	Members want to have a debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U136	Dear President, honourable Members. This is an unthankful task for me, but I think that in this case, the Ministry of Culture, for the sake of more loved peace, has stepped up to the pressure of individual ballet troop members. My question is that. The Saeima and honourable Members of this parliamentary term, how much do we know a famous brand, or name, that remains in the near future for 100 years? So in 2019 the name of the Latvian National Opera could mark the 100th anniversary. We also know that this is perhaps the University of Latvia, which was founded in 1919... Well, before the war VEF, “Laima”... We don't have any other famous names that were internationally known. Should it be for the Members of this parliamentary term to enter history by changing that name so that the next ones will come after us and change that name again in line with the current situation?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Honourable Members! Do you have something to say about this brand - Emil Kuper, Georg Schnefogt, Ignacs Vaghalters, Salvatore Indovino, Leo Bleh, Aleksandra Fjodorova, who came from the Marija Theatre to create a classic ballet troupe here in the Latvian National Opera? Neither the Marija Theatre, the Big Theatre, the Metropolitene Opera, nor the Stockholm Royal Opera are going to change their name, and you'll be reading in the aphis everywhere that it's either a Grand Theatre Ballet Company or a Metropolitene Opera Ballet Company. Why do we want to be so original? In the Commission, the Director of Opera was just one argument based on Mr. Liepiņš: that ballet earns more than an opera. Well, today it earns more! Or it will earn more in ten years' time or it will earn more for the opera - we do not know that. But imagine, if we change the law each time, the name of the institution according to what chapter or department makes more of it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Although in 1939 the majority of VEF profits were cables and machine tools, we did not refer to VEF as a cable and machine machine factory! So I think you should stick to those traditions, remember that in 1934, the Latvian National Opera Ballet Company was visiting the Royal Opera of Stockholm with the love victory. Then, under the same name – “Latvian National Opera Ballet Company” – the performances took place in Berlin, Brussels, Budapest, Helsinki, and under the same name – “Latvian National Opera” this Opera House and Ballet Company has entered the history of music and ballet. So I call again: let us not change the name of the centenary! Let us leave the name “LNO”, so that, as I said, it exists in the same way as “Merropolithene Opera” or “Marie Theatre” or “Lielais Theatre”! And if we change, then let us remember that the next ones will come, who will reinvent something new! A country that respects itself retains the names of such centenary. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U137	Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U138	Dear Members, I am glad to see all the people around me here in the Saeima! I want to go to the Latvian National Opera building and say, “Mr Leimanis, you think you know what you really do, but there are much bigger ballet specialists in the Saeima for you!” Isn't it so that Latvia would benefit from having our opera and ballet specialists, who are sitting here in the Saeima, happy us with opera outsides and ballet dances from our White Building stage? ( From the drug depot. A.Barča: “Do God!” ) As you know, the Psychologists' Law is currently being prepared, which will stipulate that the psychologist who will work with the ballet dancer will not be allowed to work with the Member, and the one who will work with the Member will not be able to work with the ballet dancer. Unlike psychologists, Members are experts in any field, whether they are opera, sex, psychologists or “Romeo and Juliet”. I also like opera and ballet, but I still trust that people working in the Latvian National Opera know better about what they are doing, so I invite you to support the opinion of the Latvian National Opera and Ballet and the Ministry of Culture on this issue and to support the opinion of the Commission on this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U139	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U140	Yes, honourable colleagues! When all the problems in the cultural field have been solved and there is no longer anything to do at all, it can already be done by moving marzipan roses to the cake so that they can look better. We can also change the name of Opera, nothing will happen! Let me give you a few examples from the area that I know better. Yes, by the way, today we have one example: Rezekne University College wants to become Rezekne Academy of Technologies. Well, why not?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, In time, the Riga Polytechnic Institute became Riga Technical University. The argument was that in the world, institutes understand something quite different. Then we will not have to explain to anyone that we are a university providing higher education in a number of fields... That you'd better count on us. It may be that there was also a logic to do this, because it is better for a university fighting for entry to the first thousand universities in the world that everyone immediately understands what it is. Only the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which, with Harvard University, changes from time to time in this first position of universities, did not think for a moment that you should change your name, because if you say MIT English, it will be understood by absolutely everyone in the world, and no one will say: Ai, it is some kind of institute... No, it's not a university! Well, I think we should call on opera management to be less modest. The Latvian National Opera does not fight for a place in the first thousand. The location of the Latvian National Opera in the world's cultural space is well known and has been loud enough throughout the world in both opera and ballet fields, and anyone who is somehow in the world's cultural circulation knows what the Latvian National Opera is. And when he sees that it is a National Opera and Ballet, then he will have to start thinking about what it is about. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not move the marzipan roses on the cake because, in my opinion, the way in which these roses are now standing is more beautiful than what you want to do. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciated. From the drug depot. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U141	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U142	Dear colleagues, I very much agree with Mr Šadurski on this issue, particularly with regard to the abbreviation you used - MIT. Look at this! Now it's LNO, but there will be LNO and another B. Dear colleagues, well, it's not serious... But if seriously, then the Latvian National Opera is a symbol, value, and in my view, open the Pandora box now and put all kinds of trailers here... This is not the right solution. Today will be ballet, tomorrow will come something more B and B, and so we will come from the Latvian National Opera, from the symbol and value, to the unknown.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U143	Name to Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U144	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that I will take your time, because you certainly have your own views on this matter. That would be a good view, but it won't happen! Mr. Liepiņš, together with Mr. Leimanis, will not raise the tables at the Opera Theatre, take the hammer and the hammer in his hand, and will not go up to where the “National Opera of Latvia” is written. This will only be a change in the law and a change in the name of the company. It is clear that all those who do business understand: if, let us say, Andris and Juris have established a company and if for some time this company is called the “Andris” company, but after some time they have added “and Juris”, then those who know their background or foundation and everything else, as it has been, will definitely say that it is right now, because they were both together all the time. I may have seen a lot of you and your cameras at one time, talking about Oper, about this our White House. You're taking beautiful views, but if you're driving on Krišjānis Baron Street, let's say, with a tram and try to take Oper from there, on that side, then you'll probably not send this photo to your fields, because you'll see that there's Opera and there's a yard with quite a number of props, tablecloths, because there's just no room for the Opera's technical staff to park them. So I ask you, as far as possible... and, of course, in what meditation to visualize such a thing: there is an attachment to the Opera, where these details can be placed. Moreover, I must say that I have already seen a door in Opera's house leading to this supplement, but this building is still not ready. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the future decision of the Ministry of Culture “Latvian National Opera and Ballet” and the Committee on Education, Culture and Science on this matter! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U145	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U146	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would not have come to the table if Mr Freeer did not neronise here as Members who do not understand anything from the opera. I would like to remind you that I had the honour of working on this still incomplete architecture of Opera in the office of Jamesson. And at the end of 1995, in 1996, in 1997, an Opera Council was set up, which at that time was directly responsible for both the allocation of funds and the conversion, in which both Raimonds Pauls and at the time... Benjamiņa, who has already died, has a whole line of other cultural workers, singer Germen Heine-Wagner... And, you know, in these quite many years, when I faced exactly with the practice in Opera, no one even thought that this name should be changed. And I'd like to remind you that we're already... This is not the first case. We have also changed such a brand as Riga, if we want to be good... The Conservatory of Latvia, although the Conservatory of Paris, the Conservatory of Brussels, still exists. Yes, now we have Joseph Vītols Latvian Academy of Music... And so all the time, as Mr Shadursky said here, this campaign continues. It only shows that we are not aware of our roots, nor of our history, and do not appreciate in any sense what our ancestors have done, which have apparently been foolishr than us. The same Fjodorova who created this classic ballet, who did not understand and did not know that the name should be changed... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U147	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U148	Yeah. I would just like to add that this is the third reading and that this issue has already been decided in the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U149	Yeah, thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 33, refraining - 8. The proposal is therefore not supported. Colleagues! I call for the debate to continue after the parliamentary sitting has ceased. But before we go on a break, we have to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Before reading the results of the registration, I would like to inform you that Member Dzintars Zaķis celebrated his 45th anniversary on 26 May. We all welcome him! (Applause) The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U150	Members of the Legal Commission, I remind you that the Legal Commission is sitting five minutes later in the premises of the Legal Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U151	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U152	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Aldis Adamovičs, Solvita Āboltiņa, Boriss Cilevičs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš... And, Alexander Kirstein... Yes, Maris Kučinskis... is, Roman Mežeckis, Ivan Ribakovs and Jānis Vacāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U153	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U154	Colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting! I would remind you that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Opera of Latvia” is on the agenda. Colleagues, I invite you to resume work and to take up seats in Saeima's meeting room! Thus, the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian National Opera Law” is on the agenda. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ivars Laisvers.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U155	Yes, thank you. We remained with Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U156	Proposal No 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U157	Yeah, so four. - Mr Nikiforov's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U158	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U159	5. - Member Elksniņš's proposal, which has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U160	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U161	6. - Mr Kirstein's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U162	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U163	7. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U165	8 / 8 - Mr Nikiforov's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U167	9. - Member Elksniņš's proposal, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U168	It is identical to the previous one and is therefore also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U169	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office, which is also identical to the two previous proposals. So the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U170	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U171	11. - Mr Nikiforov's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U172	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U173	12. - Member Elksniņš's proposal. Identical to proposal 11. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U174	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U175	13. - Mr Kirstein's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U176	Members ask for a vote on the 13th motion. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 31, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U177	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U179	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Nikiforov's proposal, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U181	16. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U183	17. - Member Dalder's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U184	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U185	18. - Mr Nikiforov's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U186	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U187	19. - Member Elksniņš's proposal, which has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U188	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U189	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, dear colleagues. Within the framework of the specific proposal, I propose to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to assess by the end of this year the possibility of changing the legal status of the Latvian National Opera from the capital company to the state institution. I believe that the specific proposal is to be evaluated and the discussion on legal status should be launched not only in the Latvian National Opera but also in other state capital companies and public institutions, because of the nature of the Latvian National Opera... Now, well, already... ‘and ballet’ shall not be an institution whose principal purpose is to make a profit. On the other hand, the status of a public authority would oblige the Ministry of Culture to bear a large amount of responsibility both for the operation and to give it more from its own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U190	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U191	President-in-Office of the Saeima, honourable Members. The discussion initiated by Mr Elksniņš on the status of a state-owned company is justified in principle, since the liquidation of state-owned agencies at the time transformed institutions into capital companies which, in fact, are not of such a nature, because profit making is not at their heart. At the same time, however, I think it would not be appropriate to launch this discussion specifically for the Latvian National Opera to be a pilot project or something... Therefore, without denying that this discussion would be necessary and perhaps changes would be necessary, I would nevertheless call for it not to be supported in this particular law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U192	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U193	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I can add that the Commission really listened to this proposal, but considered that it might not be right at third reading: to support this proposal, because it requires more detailed examination and analysis of this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U194	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Elksniņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 50, for - 5. The proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U195	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is partly supported and included in the Commission 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U196	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U197	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Commission itself is, of course, in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U199	22. - Member Dalder's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. ( From the drug depot. I. Dalder: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U200	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - Member Dalder's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 52, for - 2. The proposal is not supported. And 23?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U201	And 23. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U202	Members are in favour. All the proposals have therefore been examined.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U203	Yes, so all the proposals have been examined. And now I call on you to vote in favour of the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U204	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Opera of Latvia” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 2 and for - 3. So the draft law in the third, final, reading is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U206	The next item is the draft law amending the law on private pension funds. But before that, I would like to inform my colleagues that the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is asking for an amendment to the agenda of the 28 May session and that it should include a draft law on the first reading of the Law on State Pensions. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug: “No! ” ) There is no objection by Members. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U207	Hello, colleagues! Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds are made taking into account that the manager of alternative investment funds is allowed to manage portfolios of client financial instruments, including portfolios of pension funds and institutions for occupational retirement provision. The essential requirements are laid down in the draft law on ‘Amendments to the law on alternative investment funds and their managers’, i.e. in the draft law that we will see as the next one. Both draft laws can be seen in the same legislative package. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, this particular draft law has been approved for first reading. We also ask colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U208	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U209	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 2 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U210	There are no other proposals. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 2 June this year. Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U211	Yes, colleagues! This draft law is designed to remedy the identified shortcomings in the infringement procedure initiated against Latvia, which Latvia partially recognises. And in order to address the identified shortcomings, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’ has been drafted precisely. The Commission has supported this draft law. I also call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U212	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U213	Deadline for the second reading of the proposals - June 2, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U214	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 2 June this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Walter Dambe.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U215	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Before the second reading, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”. The Commission has not received any proposal. I therefore call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U216	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U217	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be 2 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U218	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 2 June this year. The next item is the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Taxation and Fees", first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U219	Dear President, Honourable Members! Document No 770 - Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” necessary for the newly established Credit Information Bureau to perform its duties in accordance with the Law on Credit Offices. In total, 10 proposals have been submitted. Proposal 1 - to add a new paragraph 32 of Article 1 that the main activities are carried out in accordance with the economic... I call for support. ( From the drug’s intermediates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U220	Mr. Kirstein, this is the first reading! We look conceptually.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U221	I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U222	So there are no proposals in this draft law. It is presented for first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U223	I call for support. It's not right...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U224	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U225	The deadline for submitting the proposals for second reading is June 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U226	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 10 June this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the declaration of residence, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Ainārs Mežulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U227	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The National Administration and Municipal Commission for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” has received 15 proposals. The proposal is a proposal from the commission responsible, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U229	2. - also the Commission's proposal. This is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U231	3. - the proposal by Members Libera, Liepiņa, Šica, Bondara and Ruck, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U233	4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U235	5. - also the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U237	6. - also the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky, which has been partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U238	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U239	7. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U241	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It is partly supported and included in 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U242	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U243	9. - the Commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U245	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Liberty, Liepiņa, Šic, Bondara and Ruck. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U246	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U247	11. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partly supported and included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U248	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U249	12. - the Commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U251	13. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U253	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partly supported and included in 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U255	And 15. - the Commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U257	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 28 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U258	We have examined all the proposals, and I understand that on behalf of the Commission, the rapporteur is calling for support to be given to the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U259	Yeah, second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U260	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading is therefore supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U261	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 28 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U262	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 28 August this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits, second reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Bērziņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U263	Colleagues, we work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”. Four proposals were received and analysed very seriously. The proposal is a proposal from the welfare minister, Ulda Augulis, which was supported. Request to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U265	The proposal is a proposal from the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, which was also discussed and endorsed by the Commission. Request to support it, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U267	The proposal is a proposal from the Minister for Welfare, Ulda Augulis, which was partly supported. Request to support it, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U268	This partly supported proposal is included in Amendments 2 and 4. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U269	The proposal and proposal 4 are the proposal of the Social and Labour Commission. The request is for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U270	And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U271	The request is to support the draft law in its second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U272	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. So the draft law at second reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U273	June 4th
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U274	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 4 June this year. The next item is the draft law amending the law on unemployment insurance, second reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Siliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U275	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared for second reading draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Insurance for Unemployment Case”. One proposal has been received. It has been submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Reinis Uzulnieks, and the Commission has supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U277	No more proposals have been submitted. Please approve the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U278	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law on unemployment insurance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading is therefore supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U279	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 4 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U280	There are therefore no other proposals. Proposals shall be submitted by 4 June of this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on assistance in matters relating to the apartment, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U281	Dear President of the Saeima, colleagues. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the proposals submitted by 14 Members, in which it is requested to amend the law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”. The essence of the case is that this law currently requires local authorities to provide emergency assistance... In urgent cases for persons, first of all, however, life proves that there are very many cases when, in case of promotion of entrepreneurship, as well as in case of issues necessary for the municipality, the municipality has no right to grant an apartment to persons if the requirements of Section 13 and Section 14 of this Law are not met. This amendment to the draft law is due to the fact that it gives the right to supplement... give the municipalities the right to assess their binding regulations... entitles municipalities to grant such rights... and include this proposal in this provision of the law. The Commission has examined the draft law, supported it and has already set up a working group for its work. There is also a request to all of us, fellow Members, to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U282	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U283	The deadline for submitting proposals is June 10, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U284	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 10 June this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U285	Colleagues, we work on bill No 74/Lp12. The Commission received 39 proposals for a second reading. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U287	2. - Mr Shadursky's proposal, which corresponds in substance to 3. - a proposal from Member Imants Debtor. The Commission supports and is accordingly included in proposal 3, which is equally supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U289	4. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U290	Proposal No 3 is a motion from the Member Immant Debtor which I understand Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U291	The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U292	... support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U293	Then 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U295	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U297	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U298	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U299	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U301	8 / 8 - also a proposal of a technical nature of the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U302	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U303	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U305	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U306	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U307	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U309	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U311	Also 13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U313	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U315	Also 15. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U317	16. - also the Commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U319	17. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U320	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U321	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U323	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U325	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U327	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from Member Charles Shadursky. Partly supported and included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U328	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U329	22. - The debtor's proposal. It is similar in content to that proposed by the Member, Shadursky, and is also included in 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U330	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U331	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. This is also partly supported and included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U332	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U333	24. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U335	25. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U337	26. - the proposal by Member Kārlis Šadurskis to provide for a higher payment (instead of the EUR 125 originally included in the draft law) to branches of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries in other Member States. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U338	So the 26th proposal is supported?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U341	27. - Karl Shadursky's proposal. Partly supported and included 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U342	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U343	Similar in nature is 28. - The debtor's proposal. It is also partly supported and included in 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U344	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U345	29. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which contains both proposals 27 and 28.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U346	Members support proposal 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U347	30. - Member Shadursky's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U349	31. - the debtor's proposal, which is, as usual, similar to that of the Member's Shadursky. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U351	32. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U353	33. - The proposal from Member Charles Shadursky. Partly supported by the Commission, included in proposal 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U355	34. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U357	35. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U359	36. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U360	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U361	37. - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission proposal on transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U363	38. - Mr Shadursky's proposal, which is similar to 39. - on a proposal from the debtor, it also provides for a supplement to the transitional provisions of the law. Both the 38th and 39th proposals have been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U364	38 Members support it. And 39 Members support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U365	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U366	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U367	The deadline for submitting proposals is June 5, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U368	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 5 June this year. The next item is the draft law on industrial property institutions and procedures, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U369	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Law on Industrial Property Institutions and Procedures”. A total of 56 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U371	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U373	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U375	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Some support has been given and included in the proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U376	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U377	5. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U378	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U379	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Some support has been given and included in the proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U380	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U381	7. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U383	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U385	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U387	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U389	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U391	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U393	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Partly supported and included in proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U394	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U395	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the Commission's proposal, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U397	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been partly supported and included in Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U398	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U399	16. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U401	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U403	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U405	19. - there is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U407	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U409	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U410	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U411	22. - also the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been partly supported and included in proposal 23.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U412	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U413	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the Commission's proposal, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U415	24. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has been partly supported and included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U416	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U417	25. - the Commission's proposal, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U419	26. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U421	27. - the Commission's proposal, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U422	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U423	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U424	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U425	29. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U426	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U427	30. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U429	31. - the Commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U431	32. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U432	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U433	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U435	34. - the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been partially supported and included in 35. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U436	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U437	35. - the proposal from the committee responsible, and this has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U439	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is partly supported and included in proposal 37.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U440	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U441	37. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U443	38. - Commission proposal. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U445	39. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U447	40. - The legal bureau's proposal, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U449	41. - the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been partly supported and included in proposal 42.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U450	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U451	42. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U453	43. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U454	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U455	44. - The legal bureau's proposal, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U457	45. - The legal bureau's proposal, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U459	46. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U461	47. - Commission proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U463	48. - Mr. Nikiforov's proposal. This is not supported. ( Interface from the Hall: “Vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U464	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - Member Niquiforov's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 57, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U465	49. - Commission proposal. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U467	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U468	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U469	51. - Commission proposal. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U471	52. - Commission proposal. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U473	53. - Mr Nikiforov's proposal, which has not been supported. ( Interface from the Hall: “Vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U474	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 53. - Member Niquiforov's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 56, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U475	54. - Commission proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U476	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U477	55. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U479	And 56. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U481	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U482	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law on industrial property institutions and procedures! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -67, for -no, for -19. The draft law at second reading is therefore supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U483	Let us wait until 5 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U484	Until June 5th?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U485	Yes!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U486	So the proposals are due by 5 June this year. Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the management of the Internal Security Fund and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund for the programming period 2014-2020. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U487	Colleagues! Let us look at the draft law No.253/Lp12, which was watched by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission at its meeting on 26 May. Until now, the area covered by this draft law has been regulated by a general law - the law on the management of European Union funds. But since the legal framework contained in this law applies to the field of home affairs... The programming period of the European Union funds 2007-2013 and the implementation period 2014-2020 of the Internal Security Fund and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, which are also governed by new regulations, have been launched since 1 January 2014 in the Republic of Latvia and other Member States of the European Union, therefore a new law is needed, which lays down the rights and responsibilities of institutions and beneficiaries of funding involved in the management of the European Union funds, the basic rules and composition of the Supervisory Committee, the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers and many other matters related to this fund. How it will be used - it depends on further decisions, but we need to adopt this framework, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading, before setting the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U488	Thank you. So we must vote on the urgency first. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Law on the management of the programming period 2014-2020 of the Internal Security Fund and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U489	If the commission decided... Oh, on behalf of the Commission, I am calling for this draft law to be adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U490	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Law on the management of the programming period 2014-2020 of the Internal Security Fund and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has therefore been approved at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration of the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U491	The Commission now decided that the deadline for submitting proposals would be 5 June this year...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U492	And the examination?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U493	... and examination of the draft law in the second, final, reading - 18 June of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U494	Therefore, proposals should be submitted by June 5, this year, and consideration at the Saeima sitting - June 18. The next item is the draft law on scientific research into the documents of the former State Security Committee, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U495	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Law on Scientific Research of Documents of the Former State Security Committee” and in its meeting has supported the request to establish the urgency of this draft law at first reading, and then, as I mentioned, has also supported it at first reading. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to support the urgency of the draft law in question.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U496	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law on scientific research of documents of the former State Security Committee as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 64, it's against 19, it's not. Consequently, the draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U497	Dear colleagues, please support this draft law at first reading, because the public is waiting for what was needed from 1 January as regards the law on the use of KGB documents. The Saeima decided that from 1 January this KGB Scientific Research Commission should start work. The Commission itself has drawn up a work plan, the members of the Commission are ready to do so, and specific researchers are involved. Currently, this new law, the former State Security Committee document research law, provides funding to the University of Latvia, whose Commission of the Institute of History has chosen the best administrator, who can even administer scientific activities. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U498	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U499	Dear colleagues, the situation with regard to this draft law and with regard to the amendments adopted last year to the law on the preservation, use and fact of cooperation of individuals with the detection of the KGB is to a large extent amusing. And the amusing one, why? First of all, last year... Within the framework of the draft law, we debated how the Saeima and politicians should deal with the content of the KGB bags. There was a great deal of proposals at the time: from the destruction of the bags to the discovery of the contents of the bags, but all came to a large extent to the compromise that their research would be needed. It's been a year. At the beginning of the legislative year in force... So far, in May last year, no action was taken in respect of scientific research. Secondly, much of what happened before, both in the Ministry of Justice and in the Ministry of Education and Science, when in fact none of the ministries wanted to become a curator... Although one, the Ministry of Justice, wanted to become a curator for the issue in question and for objective research of the KGB bags. The scandals started with regard to the members of the Research Commission and, in these circumstances, I do not see the possibility of adopting a separate legislative act - because the Saeima, from the point of view of the legal technique, allocates the budget in a completely different way to scientific research or something else - for a separate draft law on this issue. In the Legal Commission, representatives of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima have indicated that the said draft law as such is not necessary in nature and that its adoption will create more and more contradictions. Any problems must be addressed not within the scope of this draft law, but within the meaning of the law “On the maintenance, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB”. So even a lawyer... Indeed, the views of really neutral and politically independent lawyers on this draft law are that it will only undermine the current system. That's the second. Thirdly. The draft law in the format in which it is written here now, formally saying that its aim is to allocate budgetary resources to research, contains solutions that are absolutely unacceptable. Well, let's say, Article 5 of the draft law: "The results of the KGB document research are limited access information..." I am very sorry, but what is it about scientific freedom, about scientific research if the result is secret? The next question arising from this draft law is that the persons involved in the Commission will, for example, be obliged to comply with the requirements of the law on state secrecy. This results from Article 4. What does that mean? The members of the Scientific Research Commission, let us assume, have five, but the permission to work with the state secret will get one. What research is it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This draft law does not completely regulate this issue, and it will overturn... it will immediately be literally overshadowed with additional proposals on how its research will be provided. And we will have contradictions after that draft law is adopted! There will be a contradiction with the law on the preservation of former KGB documents and so on, a contradiction with the law on state secrecy and a number of other binding regulatory acts. So, in my view, the only objective that you have today is actually their scientific research to a large extent either not to start at all or to control. I call on colleagues, given that there will be a very short deadline for the submission of proposals, to submit a number of these legislative proposals. We will also do this and present proposals that will regulate both the publication of documents ( nevertheless!) The discovery of the contents of the KGB bags - there's nothing to really fear from your shadow and fight, you won't escape it! - the availability of results, as well as the fact that the members of the Research Commission will not need admissions to work with national secrecy. But with regard to the results of the research, the involvement of the members of the research committee... it must, to a large extent, be independent... The state does not have to intervene to a large extent in the process of attracting scientists and also in the issue of funding. It should also not interfere with the point at which point and what will have to be published to the public regarding the disclosure of the contents of these bags.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U500	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U501	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, there was a very wide-ranging discussion in the Commission about the quality of this draft law, including whether it was necessary at all. Perhaps we could incorporate the necessary provisions into existing laws. However, with one vote, I also voted in favour, because I think we can make proposals for a second reading. I think Mr Kanger will also share his thoughts on what should be changed if necessary. And I certainly call for this draft law to be supported at the Saeima sitting as well. Let the commission work, finish its work and let us finally resolve this matter! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U502	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U503	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U504	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on scientific research of documents of the former State Security Committee! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - no, for - 18. So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U505	The deadline for submitting proposals - June 2, and consideration - June 11, the Saeima will meet.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U506	There are no other proposals. Consequently, proposals should be submitted by 2 June of this year, and consideration at the Saeima sitting - 11 June of this year. Thank you. Colleagues! I would like to inform you that Members of the Saeima Dzintars, Gaidis Berzins, Dombrava, Chair, Cilinskis and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 28 May this year and to include the draft decision of the Saeima on the withdrawal of Member Edwin Schnore from the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Dzintars, Gaidis Berzins, Dombrava, Chair, Cilinskis and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 28 May this year and to include the draft decision of the Saeima “On the election of the Member Raivis Dzintars to the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Dzintars, Gaidis Berzins, Dombrava, Krēsliņš, Cilinskis and others are asking for changes to the Saeima's meeting on 28 May this year to include a draft decision of the Saeima “On the election of the Member Raivis Dzintars to the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Dzintars, Gaidis Berzins, Dombrava, Krēsliņš, Cilinskis and others are also asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 28 May this year and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima on the election of Member Edwins Šnore to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item is the draft law “On the part of real estate “Kaktini” in Lēdmanes municipality, Lielvarde municipality, disposal for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the state road Riga (Tinži)-Koknese”. First reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U507	Yes, thank you. So, colleagues, about that draft law! I would remind you that the fourth sentence of Article 105 of the Satversme contains several criteria to ensure the legality of forced expropriation of property. Namely, property disposal... forced expropriation is permitted if it has taken place, firstly, on the basis of a separate law, which we also value today, secondly, for the needs of society, thirdly, in exceptional cases and fourthly, for a fair remuneration. Also, colleagues, this draft law is related to ensuring the implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the state road in Riga (Tinzi)-Koknesse. On an exceptional occasion. At the meeting of the Legal Commission, representatives of the Ministry of Transport pointed out that in various ways they have tried to resolve on the basis of agreement the issue of disposal of particular real estate to the state, but for unknown reasons the owner has refused from these various proposals or has not responded. It must be admitted that the Legal Commission of the Saeima initially postponed the examination of this draft law, because for the first time when the commission looked at this draft law, the owner had not arrived, despite the fact that the commission had invited the owner to the meeting of the commission. The owner did not attend the next meeting of the Commission and did not approve the authorised representative again, despite the fact that the Commission repeatedly invited the owner to attend the meeting of the Commission in writing and by telephone. Therefore, the Commission is not aware of the considerations why the owner does not agree on the voluntary disposal of the necessary land. As regards fair remuneration, there has also been an evaluation available to Members. I can only remind you that, according to the law “On the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for Society’s Needs”, in case of dispute, the assessment must be challenged in court in civil procedure. The Commission supported that draft law. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U508	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the disposal of the draft law “On the part of real estate “Kaktini” in Lēdmanes municipality, Lielvarde municipality, for public needs – for the implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the state road Riga (Tinzi)-Koknese”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U509	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 2 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U510	Proposals shall be submitted by 2 June of this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the electricity market law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten. ( Illustrations from the drug: “No! It's gone!’ ) There is no rapporteur. The committee has therefore agreed on another rapporteur. Thank you. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U511	Colleagues, this is about amendments to the Electricity Market Act. These technical amendments are largely due to the fact that Latvia has to take over the current regulation, which has been adopted and which sets out the procedure for determining the electricity market operator. The current regulation of the electricity market law establishes a different procedure, which is contrary to what is stipulated in the regulation. And that is why we urgently need to make such amendments. And that is why the Commission is calling for this draft law to be examined as a matter of urgency and even to start examination today. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U512	Thank you. So, first of all, we must vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U513	Please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U514	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U515	On the deadline for the second reading, we invite you to set 1 June so that the draft law can be examined at the sitting of 4 June of the Saeima. It would be very important for us to adopt it even before this part-session ends.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U516	Review of the Saeima sitting... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U517	4 June at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U518	June 4th. Thank you. Consequently, the proposals should be submitted by 1 June of this year and the consideration of the Saeima at its meeting on 4 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U519	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U520	The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No 26/Lp12) until 8 June 2015. No one wants to report on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No 26/Lp12) until 8 June 2015! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U521	Highly honored members of the Saeima Presidium! Dear Members, Honourable Members! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has today examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”. The draft law, which was sent to us by the Cabinet of Ministers and approved today by the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs for the first reading, with the participation of both the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Finance responsible officials, addresses several very serious issues in the law “On State Pensions”. First of all, it concerns the judgement of the Constitutional Court on the recalculation of the pensions of Group I and Group II disabled persons, if these persons have been employers. The procedures for converting invalidity pensions for beneficiaries of Group I and Group II invalidity pensions will also provide for an appropriate formula with an increased coefficient. At the same time, questions on the rules for receiving the state old-age pension are also regulated if the disability pension is extended and does not occur within one month, but within a period of up to four months. The Law on State Pensions also contains severe amendments to those persons who, by their fault, have received a pension which also requires an overpayment. Of course, this draft law also contains the question of the actualisation of pension capital and the question of the time of crisis, when the salary index became smaller and did not reach us with the figures one. So the index was less than number 1 - it was 0,6, 0,7 and so on. This issue is also regulated in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”. And, of course, there are also cases where people retire and they have a total social insurance period of more than 30 years. In addition, the draft law indicates that this person must be socially insured after at least five years of 1996 - from the time when the current law on state pensions came into force. Dear colleagues, the law has been amended on 12 issues. Taking into account that the judgment of the Constitutional Court enters into force on 1 July of this year, the Commission of Social and Labour Cases invites to grant urgency to the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U522	Thank you. So we must decide first of all on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U523	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call on the draft law to be adopted and accepted at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U524	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U525	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable Members! I would like to say that the Social and Labour Affairs Commission was waiting for this draft law from April and, as I understand it, there was a resolution and a request from the Ministry of Welfare to examine it as a matter of urgency. However, by passing all the procedures in the Cabinet of Ministers, so that Members can check not only what is prepared in the Ministry, but also submit their proposals, as I understand, we no longer have the opportunity today, because we have only one month left to examine this draft law in Parliament, because it has the deadline set by the Constitutional Court, and in order not to violate the Constitution, we need to examine it urgently. This is not correct against the opposition, it is not correct against Members at all, so it is clear why the opposition collected 38 signatures for the first time in history in the 12th Saeima and wants to look at this issue in an extraordinary session, or can the Cabinet find a model to communicate with the opposition and respect it or not? The signatures have been collected and we are ready to submit them every moment. And our only request is that this process should not be stopped, that the promises of the voters are fulfilled and that the Government declaration on what will compensate the pensioners who suffered from its negative salary index next year... will compensate for this technical reduction of the pension due for economic reasons. There are 90 000 people, these pensioners, who are three years old, who are a very large audience waiting for these promises to be fulfilled. As far as I am aware, today Aija Barča, together with other representatives, is sitting in the commission... a meeting was scheduled, and this was the case with our Prime Minister, who promised that its compensation would begin next year. We have different models, different audiences. Which ones will it affect first - whether those who retired in 2009 or 2008 or those who receive the lowest pension? There are all kinds of options, but the dialogue has begun and, as Parliamentary Secretary Asheraden has also announced to us today, they are ready to find around EUR 4 million to compensate for this legislative initiative that will arise in that communication and in those disputes within the commissions. We understand that there is a difficult budgetary situation today, we understand that we need to create a socially responsible budget for next year, but we also want to stick to that principle: if we promised what we promised before the elections, then we need to do it! That is why, today, by communicating and discussing with the opposition - with Mrs Silver, with other representatives - we have spoken about the fact that we will not submit this application today - to convene an extraordinary sitting - until we discuss it in the Commission and do not realise this promise to start the next year to compensate for the pensions the formula with a negative index was used to calculate. We will not be destructive, we will also believe to Mrs Barch today that she will achieve this and that the result will be. If we go to it and we approve this bill at second reading in two weeks' time, because it can be seen as a matter of urgency (and as far as I understand it will also be found), then we will bring this issue up to date for this period. But we will look very carefully at the coming years - to 2017, 2018 - so that all people who have suffered get their compensation or pension review. Thank you for hearing us from the point of view! But we can do much more radically and resume playing if you start to ignore us. And I realize it was the last warning, the yellow card... Coalition partners! Your mandate is not better than ours, it's the same. And please, 38 people, we are sitting here and want to play an active part in the legislation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U526	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U527	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The law must, of course, be adopted as a matter of urgency, because there is little time in which we can adopt it. However, despite this urgency, it would be important to resolve the issue of these negative indexes of insurance contributions. And unfortunately, it will not be possible to resolve this with regard to all the pensioners affected as early as next year, but when working on the second reading, we should set a deadline within which we will resolve it, and this solution should start as early as next year. And it seems right that the solution that has already been highlighted by the Commission in today's debate would be to deal with this issue first of all for people with lower pensions (which would perhaps not impose a disproportionate burden on the next year's budget), but at the same time to deal directly with poverty for people who are at the very greatest risk of poverty. Talking about this issue yesterday, too, with the Prime Minister, has gained understanding, and the Prime Minister also recognises it as a priority and urgent issue. Consequently, I hope that together we will be able to find the best and at the same time also a financially feasible solution for the coming year, as well as a solution to this problem in its entirety. I therefore call on us today to support the draft law at first reading and to work hard to make this solution optimal at second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U528	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Siliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U529	Dear colleagues, Since 2011, the desperate pensioners started to arrive at the Latvian Pensioners Federation, which reported that their pensions had fallen by almost 20 per cent due to the application of the coefficient. By carefully studying legislation, we concluded that there was a gross error. This was reported to both the Ministry of Welfare and the Ombudsman, as well as applications to the Constitutional Court were prepared, because in fact the main principle of calculation of the pension has been dismantled that the pension must meet two basic criteria, namely, length of service and insurance contributions to the social insurance budget. Unfortunately, at the same time as these coefficients, another third indicator has been introduced, that is, pension dependence on the year of birth, and in fact people who have been calculated to have a pension with this low coefficient have been punished with a crisis for the rest of their lives. I am very pleased that we have finally managed to reach an understanding on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers and that this issue is being resolved. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this error in fact has made it necessary to recalculate more than 100 000 pensions in the coming years, and therefore, in fact, every delay that will be will only increase the number of those people who will have to recalculate pensions, because the low coefficients practically have an impact on all the pensions that have been calculated since 2010. The second thing I would like to draw Members' attention to is what amounts are needed to realise it. The figure has already been mentioned here that it needs around EUR 4 million next year. And for comparison, I would also like to name the figures, which are the official figures of the Ministry of Welfare and the State Social Insurance Agency, that is, the figures on how the provision for the state social insurance budget increases over the years. This year it is about 370 million euros, but one year later... to the end of next year - 550, reaching as much as a billion euros in 2018. Of course, this is a very minimum amount compared to the amounts that are necessary to address this issue. And finally, I would like to tell Members what they are talking about, if you can say so, in the pensioner's society. Above all, it is already considered that all the activities currently carried out with the social insurance budget... Let us remember the year 2009 when the use of this budget actually started for purposes that were not in line with it, by transferring to the budget the premiums to pensions, and also the actions that are taking place now... various restrictions, and so on. In fact, pensioners believe that a targeted provocation is being carried out in order to reduce workers' confidence in the state social insurance budget and in the state pension system, which has been recognised - however paradoxical it may be! - one of the best in the world. And finally. The Riga Pensioners have asked to hand over the greeting to the Ministry of Finance and to ask the European High Officials who want to impose restrictions on pensioners and divide them to come to Riga. The Latvian Pensioners Federation will be happy to organise a meeting with Riga pensioners who have a monthly pension of 150 - 170 euros. They will also present these figures and their living capacity to European high officials. In general, however, I would like to ask Members to support these amendments to the law and, moreover, as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U530	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Is there something to be added on behalf of the Commission before the vote?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U531	Dear colleagues, Our colleague Andris Siliņš, of course, today expresses the concern of the Latvian Pensioners Federation, but at the same time I would like colleagues to understand where this negative index came from and why the pensioners still have such a concern from 1 January 2010. Wage indices did not fall the same way. Wages indices started to fall in 2009, and the calculations for pensions after the 2009 index were made in 2010. That was already, colleagues, at the beginning of the crisis, and because wages were reduced. And to call it quite a mistake, I think it would not be particularly correct. Just... We have now agreed that this issue should be brought together. Of course, I would like to be able to compensate for the whole of the previous period, but, unfortunately, honourable colleagues and also pensioners will not be able to do so at the moment. But the fact that we could at least get a new, recalculated pension from January 1st next year - we were discussing this yesterday and today at the commission meeting. I therefore very much call on my fellow Members today to support the draft law at first reading and to trust the members of the Social and Labour Commission, who represent all the groups elected by the Saeima, and thus the political forces, and I think that, together, we will be able to examine the draft law as soon as possible. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U532	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U533	On behalf of the Commission, I call for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals on 1 June at 12.00 this year and for the discussion of the draft law at second reading at the Saeima meeting on 11 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U534	Thank you. So the proposals should be submitted by 12 noon on 1 June this year, and the session of the Saeima will be held on 11 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U535	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U536	Thank you. The next item is the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Edwin Schnore from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Edwin Schnore from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Member Raivja Dzintars to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Rajjs Dzintars to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Consequently, Member Raivis Dzintars has been elected to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Mr Rajjs Dzintars to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Rajjs Dzintars to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, the Member Raivis Dzintars has been elected to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Member Edwin Schnore to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Edwin Schnore to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thus, Member Edwin Snore was elected to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Colleagues! With regard to the question and answer meeting scheduled today, I would like to inform you that the Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss, about the economic justification of the Rail Baltica project and its real impact on the Latvian economy, has received a written response, whose applicants are not satisfied, but the Minister has informed that he cannot attend the oral response today. The question of Members of the Parliaments Kūtra, Silver, May, Schic, Chair and Symphas was re-addressed to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs. Written replies have been received. The applicants are not satisfied with the answer given by the Minister of Justice and the Minister has informed that he can attend the oral response today. Regarding the question of Member Zarina, Agešina, Urbanoviča, Tutina and Ribakova to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the impact of the current geopolitical situation on the Latvian economy”. The question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. A written response has been received and the applicants are not satisfied, but the Minister is unable to attend today's oral response. On the question of Member Elksniņa, Zariņa, Zemlinska, Adamson and Ribakova, Minister of Finance Janis Reirs, about the State Revenue Service inspections. The written responses received are not satisfied and the Minister informs us that it is possible to attend the oral response today. On the matter of Membership Silver, Clementyeva, Ruka, Shica, Freezer and Maya, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the postponement of the amendment to the Law on State Pensions”. The question is addressed to the Minister for Welfare Uldis Augulis. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. However, the Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. Concerning the question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the impact of the mandatory procurement component on production”, Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Zemļinska, Adamson and Ribakava. The question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question is therefore considered to have been answered. In connection with Member Zarina, Zemļinska, Niconova, Zuvėv and Tretjaka question to the Minister for Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On the provision of security reserve service for the establishment of state (Republic of Latvia) oil product reserves”. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response, and the Minister also informs that the question asked by Members will be given a written reply by June 5 due to the large amount of information. Consequently, the question-and-answer meeting will take place today at 17.00. Both Minister of Justice Rasnačs and Minister of Finance Reirs can visit it. However, new questions have also been received from Members. Members Elksniņš, Agešins, Mirskis, Dolgopolovs and Potapkins submitted a question “On the development of the portal “ www.kola.lv” for officials responsible for the recovery of losses”. It is forwarded to Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile for a reply. Regarding the question put by Members by Mr Urbanovich, Mr Potapkin, Mr Zarins, Mr Agešin and Mr Tutin, "On the advance payment of corporation tax". This is addressed to the Minister for Finance Janis Reiras to respond. Concerning the question “On the purchase of tram wagons for the needs of Daugavpils city” presented by Member Elksniņa, Orlova, Agešina, Tutina and Tretjakas. It is handed over to the Minister of Transport, Anria Matīss, for his reply. Members Zarins, Agešins, Tretjaka, Zujevs and Nikonovs have also submitted the question “On A/S KVV “Liepės metalurgs””. It is addressed to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, and we also refer it to Mrs Straujuma for a reply. But Member Ivars Zarins asks for a statement of reasons. I remind you that time to read the motivation is one minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U537	Colleagues, as you know, the shareholders of Liepaja Metalurgs once again have problems ensuring the successful operation of Liepaja Metalurgs. Shareholders shall be liable to the State which is unable to provide them with the necessary conditions. We've heard this story and we know where it's going. And to find out what is actually to blame, is it really the shareholders who have purchased the company and who do not really want to meet their obligations, is it a state that does not meet its obligations towards the shareholders, or perhaps this transaction by selling this company that took place before the elections simply was a fiction for the company to be sold... in order for shareholders to simulate their activities and then be able to derogate from their obligations? It is very important to understand the reality and not to allow it to grow and lead where it has been. Therefore, we have asked questions and we want to obtain these documents, which prove the real conditions and conditions under which this “Liepājas metalurgs” has been sold to understand how we can do the right way forward and prevent the current crisis in Liepaja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U538	Thank you. The agenda for the Saeima meeting has therefore been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While preparing the results of the registration, the name of the notice to Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U539	Dear Members of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, So a commission meeting will take place at 12.30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U540	Name for the statement to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U541	Dear members of the Saeima Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications! I remind you that at 12.30 a.m., a committee meeting will be held on the premises of the committee. Don't be late, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U542	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U543	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Solvita Āboltiņa, Guntis Belēvičs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Boriss Cilevičs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Armands Krauze, Romanas Mežeckis, Ivans Ribakovs, Edwards Smiltēns, Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-28-PT12-302-U544	Thank you. Consequently, the Saeima sitting is closed.
