ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U1	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Welcome! On 4 May 2015, the Saeima opened its formal sitting dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the restoration of independence of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U2	Name for a solemn address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U3	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! 25 years have passed since the restoration of the independence of Latvia. It was just a quarter of the century ago that we experienced a victory of principled justice on that day against injustice and the resurrection of truth. The Supreme Council adopted a declaration on the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Latvia. It paved the way for a re-emergence of our statehood, which was violently interrupted by the Soviet occupation. Many Latvian citizens did not have to experience this day of independence. Many hoped for the restoration of the state for almost all their lives, until the decisive turning point in Latvia's history. Just as children and young people also experienced the restoration of state independence, the Cold War generation, to which I also belong. On 4 May 1990 the state of Latvia was restored on the basis of the continuity of the state – 18 November 1918 Latvia. It is also highlighted in the introduction to the Constitution or in the preamble, which was adopted by the Saeima in June last year. Several Latvian generations of Soviet occupations grew in isolation from the rest of the world. However, the majority of the people also maintained their spiritual belonging to Europe and its values during this period. It did not recognise the power of occupation, it did not forget what was done to the state and nation of Latvia. Resistance to the occupation regime was not reduced in various forms. In the most difficult times, our people retain eternal values. This is demonstrated by our isolation from the six centuries of oppression and stagnation. We have been able to claim and recover freedom. The majority of the Latvian statehood and the minorities living here wanted to regain Latvia's national, democratic and European state. The members of the Human Rights Group “Helsinki-86” came as the first. The National Independence Movement of Latvia set Latvia's restoration on the basis of continuity. The Citizens' Congress clarified and promoted the legal principles of continuity of Latvia's statehood. The Latvian People's Front was able to combine all those different currents that existed on 18 November 1918 to restore Latvia. Despite supposedly insurmountable contradictions, which led to competition and even fighting each other, these organizations acted in one direction – the restoration of the state of Latvia. But there were others. A certain part of Latvia's population at that time wanted the Soviet occupation regime to continue here or even formally independent Latvia would still be a continuation of Latvian SSR. They were mainly citizens of the USSR who had arrived here as a result of the policy of colonisation of the Soviet occupation regime. They reunited in the Interfront and demanded that the consequences of the occupation that lasted for half a century be recognised, which had been deeply perplexed by the land and society of Latvia. The real balance of forces was reflected in the People's Survey of March 3, 1991: 1.2 million people expressed desire for Latvian independence, while 400 000 were opposed. The ideological successors of these Latvian national opponents held a referendum on the introduction of multilingualism 21 years later. The citizens of Latvia rejected it equally clearly with a three-quarters majority, reaffirming that Latvia is an independent, democratic and at the same time a national state where the only language of the country is Latvian. Ladies and gentlemen! By adopting 4 May as the starting point of renewed independence, today we are assessing the state's development over the last 25 years. The restoration of Latvian institutions has been a success. The democratic Constitution in Latvia has again been in force for 22 years. In the introduction of the Satversme, the foundations of the State are strengthened, the unamended core of the Satversme. After 4 May, Latvian society, like elsewhere in Eastern Europe, experienced an unprecedented transition to a market economy in history. While our friends in the West and we ourselves believed that the Latvian economy would quickly and successfully adapt to the old democracy of the free market model, the resources remained in the hands of the circles that managed them already during the Latvian SSR. Using the financial resources of the Communist Party, the State Security Committee and the Communist Youth Union and the former network of contacts, Soviet constituencies and collaborators turned into wealthy entrepreneurs. They were primarily concerned with securing their well-being, not with the interests of the state and the people. It was instead of democracy that they rooted pseudo-democraticism in Latvia, but the jungle economy was entrusted with a free market economy and dictated favourable conditions for society as a whole. In a large part of the nation, it created bitterness that grew into disbelief in its own country. Such a course of events distorted and hindered the development of the state of Latvia. Today, we can say that oligarchs are largely, although not completely excluded from national political administration. However, in the economy, they continue to threaten the strategic interests of the country by concluding transactions that are dangerous to Latvia's security. Latvia is most threatened by greed and money. The existence of a state in the public interest is also threatened by the influence of money on political parties and power. A former longtime officer of the KGB's intelligence service, today – a representative of the Russian mega-concere in Latvia – publicly said that 100 millionaires should be elected by the Saeima. The successful development of the State will then be guaranteed. Latvia and the Republic. This means that power belongs to the people, not to 100 millionaires. And that's fair. The President of the Constitutional Meeting and the First President of the State, the founder of Latvian democracy Jānis Čakste pointed out: “The state of Latvia stands above everything. No particular group interests can be, but only general interests. Everyone needs to give up under one free Latvia.” Chakste said: “The truth will always win.” And there is still much to do in Latvia to eliminate the screaming distortions of the principle of justice. Public institutions must defend the interests of both the richest and less prosperous parts of society with equal power and interest. The principle of fairness and social equality must be like a sun light which is equally bright on those who are slipping around the parquet and those who are referring to uneven pavements. This will contribute to public confidence in the state. And the country will be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia is a national state. It is based on the will of the Latvian nation to establish, maintain and develop its national state – a state in which all citizens have the same rights, a state in which minorities can also maintain their language and culture. But that means that Latvian language, culture and historical memory are common to all Latvian citizens – this is a prerequisite and basis for the existence of a political nation. Therefore, the State of Latvia should not allow our history to be changed or relativised by its face and likeness. The totalitarian regimes of the past and their crimes against the free, democratic state of Latvia must be condemned. In Latvia, we are still talking about the fact that the regime of occupation of the USSR, as well as the functioning of the State Security Committee, as part of it, and especially the Communist Party – the main pillar of the totalitarian regime, should be investigated with state support. Politically incomparable circumstances in Ukraine have recently passed the law on the elimination of the consequences of Communism. It provides for a lustration procedure and removal of any secret crust for KGB archives – they will be available to the general public and not only to researchers. In Latvia, however, investigation of KGB documents was delayed and slowed down, thus delaying the evaluation and management of the past. We must do this, and this work cannot be delayed. The positions of the Latvian language have been strengthened in 25 years, many non-Latvians manage it and use it successfully in their daily lives. However, not all Latvians have enough language and national self-esteem, they do not always speak Latvian, we are unable to maintain a vital language environment and involve Gentiles in it. It is shameful that 25 years after the restoration of Latvia's independence, a Latvian cannot claim to work in his own country if he does not speak Russian. Such discrimination shall not be permitted. Unfortunately, the segregation of schools on the grounds of nationality continues, thus facilitating the division of Latvian society. This work should have been done a long time ago. At the beginning of the 1990s, the newborns had to grow in a unified value and school system, not in an ethnically and linguistically divided world, which is maintained by the current Latvian education system. 4 May marked another important dividing line: we had to recover or learn self-determination and take responsibility for our country. The country of Latvia does not exist outside of us. Latvia's country is us – its strength is formed by our faith in itself, our loyalty to our nation and country. And the strongest defense lines are those that pass through our hearts and minds. Latgale is particularly important, where in the last year we have experienced efforts to develop separatism trends. The informational messages that we receive from the opponent in the media already day, as in the real war, are formulated in different ways, but the basic idea of them, Latvia has failed in a country where everything is bad, someone else would manage us better and more effectively, and perhaps it is not worth protecting it at all. The purpose of these manipulations is to ensure that the interests of their country are replaced by those of another country. We will not allow it. Patriotism is turning to and strengthening in Latvia's society. Real people's movements have flourished alongside non-governmental organisations. The increase in civil awareness is seen in social networks, where people are actively discussing political developments day and day. Latvians are “the people of the heart” – there is a high culture of compassion and donation in society. We have been able to mobilise support for the Zolituda tragedy, including assistance measures for Ukraine. An important work of love is performed by Latvian foster families, assuming to bring up abandoned or unparented children. As young and older people join New Watch and Earth Watch, they increasingly show their will and readiness to defend their land, their people, and their country. Dear people! Today we are still on our way to the future of Latvia, which we dreamed of 25 years ago. To that Latvia, where there is justice, a more united field of values and ideas, in which we recognize ourselves as a powerful and powerful nation. To that Latvia, where respect and favour towards the peer is self-evident; where every citizen of Latvia feels confident about himself and his or her tomorrow. To Latvia, where many more children are born, increasing the living and spirit power of our nations, where Latvian statehood, Latvian language and culture have opportunities to develop and flourish more fully. A big piece of road has already been taken by all of us together. Let us not be afraid of the difficulties that the dream of our country will continue to require – because we all want to implement it! We have regained our independence. This is the time to strengthen independence. We will keep the country of Latvia deep in our hearts and high in our minds! Congratulations to the people present, all countrymen and Latvian state faithful in the vicinity and far away on the 25th anniversary of the Latvian Declaration of Independence! The life of the sun for Latvia! God bless Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U4	Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima. ( A voice out of the cowards.) Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Latvian national anthem. ( A national anthem is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U5	Latvia's state independence was restored to the rock with its brothers – Estonia and Lithuania. Name to address the President of the Estonian Parliament Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U6	(Translation from Estonian. Original — Annex.) ( A translation from Estonian. Original — Annex.) Excellency! Dear friends! Today’s elevating festival is a bit like a Song Festival. In the middle of 19th century, the Livonian Jānis Cimze conducted seminars for teachers in Valmiera and Valka, and among other things taught Estonian and Latvian youths to love music and sing. These educated young people became teachers in Estonian and Latvian schools, organized public life of their people and founded choirs. These choirs began a tradition of the Song Festival of our nations a year and a half ago. The song festival strengthened our national movement, which was to blame for our independence and statehood. We know right across the Baltic Sea that recent pages of history do not lie, saying that the Baltic States have regained their freedom with a song. For there is a song, a spirit, and a power in the song, which can excite all the rest. In other parts of the world, when a person reads in his history books that freedom was recovered with a song, he may think that it is just a beletist exaggeration that does not know what the academic text is. It is difficult to reach out to those who have never experienced how a song can make people free. But nothing to keep the song secret but the used weapon of skill. It is important that timely decisions are made by the power of the song. May the power and spirit of the song materialize. Today, after a quarter of a century, it can be said that Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian folk speakers had both musical hearing and singing voice. A safe and strong voice. Let us respect them and thank them for that. However, our peoples, who have fulfilled their dream and now have to build the future of our countries, are most worthy of respect and honor. Dear Latvian people, our dear southern neighbours! Thank you for your thoughts and actions! Let all that you do prove the power of your spirit. Nice holiday! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U7	Thank you. Thank you to the President of the Estonian Parliament. The congratulations from Lithuania to our brothers in the popular language have also been brought and told by Loreta Gražuņiene, the Speaker of the Lithuanian Parliament. Please! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U8	(Translation from Lithuanian. Original — Annex.) ( Lithuanian translation.) Original — Annex.) Your Excellency President of the Republic of Latvia! President of the Saeima. Prime Minister! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen! Today you are celebrating a special day. 25 years ago, an important document was signed – a declaration about the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Latvia, which significantly changed the history of your people and the state. Those who personally experienced this important decision are best to understand the unusual sense that prevailed at that time and are still living in your hearts. Lithuania and its people also experienced it. We went together for independence, joined in the Baltic way. Our common hunger for freedom had no limits. All three Baltic countries were like sisters who demonstrated the most beautiful mutual understanding, solidarity and unity to the whole world, and the independence that our countries had won was a powerful inspiration for other countries to get rid of the Soviet yoke. Let us be glad that Latvia and Lithuania have had noble goals already in the quarter of the century, let us be happy about their self-confidence and openness to the world! In today’s geopolitical climate, we are increasingly aware of the value of freedom. We need to keep on the watch. We must not forget that when we regain our independence, we are determined to preserve it and, if necessary, defend it. Dear brothers and sisters! On behalf of the Lithuanian people and on your own behalf, I warmly welcome you on this important day in the history of your country. I wish you every success in your freedom! I wish you the joy of living in your daily life and in your celebration, believing your people and the state, proud of your language and culture, loving and protecting your land! Lithuania will continue to be not only your nearest neighbour, but also a trusted friend and co-signator in this way. With a holiday, Sister Latvia! By holidays, Sister Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U9	Thank you to the President of the Lithuanian Parliament. Iceland was the world's first country to recognise the renewed independence of Latvia. And it is a special honour for me to present and give the floor to Einar Gudfinson, the Speaker of the Icelandic Parliament. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U10	(Translation from English. Original — Annex.) ( English translation.) Original — Annex.) Your Excellency President of Latvia! Madam President, Excellency! Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I highly appreciate the opportunity to visit your country's beautiful capital in Riga today and participate in events dedicated to such a fateful event in the history of the Republic of Latvia, therefore, thank you for your invitation. The Baltic Way, the events in Hungary and Berlin in the summer and autumn of 1989, as well as in the future sphere of influence of the Baltic and other Soviet Union countries in the fight for the restoration of their independence, brought changes not only on our continent, but in fact on the whole of today's world. I followed closely the events that took place 25 years ago, and I am proud that my country also helped Latvia regain its legitimate place in the family of sovereign and democratic countries. It was not at all self-evident that a small country like Iceland took the initiative in international politics and the first recognised your implementation status. Thanks to the firm stance of Prime Minister David Odson's Government and Foreign Minister Jonas Baldwin Hanigallon, our small country became a moral leader. I think this is a valuable lesson for all the small countries. We can also learn from what you have achieved within 25 years from the restoration of independence. Latvia, like its neighbours Estonia and Lithuania, has made significant progress over the century since the historical events of 1990. Latvia has become an example of economic and social development thanks to its strong historical and cultural roots, as well as its determined will and determination. Currently, Latvia and its neighbours, our friends, are already an integral part of the Nordic-Baltic family. You are also members of the full Euro-Atlantic alliances, NATO, the European Union and the euro area, as well as other major international organisations. With your hard work and strength, you set an example of how to restore the economy after the crisis. Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you once again for your invitation and warmly welcome the Latvian people to this important anniversary on behalf of the Icelandic Parliament Alting! And welcome you with achievements! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U11	Thank you to the President of the Icelandic Parliament, Einar Gudfinson. This day we have received the congratulations of Vice-President Jo Baiden of our strategic partner, the United States. The name of the U.S. official recordman, Sharon Hadson-Din. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U12	(The English language version is given.) Ināra Mūrniece, the Speaker of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia Ināra Mūrniece, in Riga, in Latvia Mrs Mūrniece, the Speaker of the Saeima, very respectable! Please accept my sincere congratulations on behalf of President Obama and the American people, marking the 25th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence of Latvia on 4 May. During the collapse of the Soviet Union this bold declaration reaffirmed Latvia's status as an independent, sovereign nation and paved the way for Latvia's further integration with Euro-Atlantic institutions. The United States has never fluctuated in fulfilling its commitments to the people of Latvia. Our refusal to acknowledge the annexation of Latvia by the Soviet Union became the basis of our close partnership. Today, as a NATO ally and close partner, the United States and Latvia continue to show determination to develop overall security and prosperity, as well as to promote the democratic values that bind both of our countries. When you mark the 25th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence of Latvia, the United States is with you, celebrating this important and historic turning point. With respect, Joseph R. Baiden, the youngest (Applause) (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-05-04-PT12-298-U13	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! On May 4, 2015, I declare the official sitting of the Saeima closed, but we will celebrate this day together! Thank you.
