ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I call on you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 19 March. We are opening the parliamentary sitting and we must first look at the changes to the agenda adopted by the Bureau. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft law amending the Microbusiness Tax Act to be put on the agenda of the sittings. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda of the sitting has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission also asks to exclude from the agenda of the meeting the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act” (No 118/Lp12). Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) also asks to include the draft decision of the Saeima “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015””. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. We begin to examine the agenda of the amended sitting. Thus, the Presidium of Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “On real estate in Ricu Street 9, Siguļi, Carnikava Municipality, disposal of part for public needs – anti-flood protection for construction” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Valteru Street 18, Siguļi, Carnikava Municipality, for public needs – anti-flood protection for construction” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be transferred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on repatriation presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? Members... That's... Member Ilmārs Latkovskis has applied to speak. Please! Please turn on the microphone for Ilmar Latkovsky!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U2	Please determine the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U3	Are there any objections to the designation of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity as a co-responsible commission? Thus, there is no objection to Members. Consequently, the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is responsible, but the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity is the co-responsible Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Aija Barča, Imants Krādnieks, Mārtiņš Bondara and Arvīds Platopera refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U4	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, All the time I have been given - five minutes - I do not use you to prevent you from doing so. The subject is understandable and well-known to everyone. So there are currently two categories of electricity users with the status of a protected user - low-income and large families. In other words, that is to say, these categories get a discount on electricity. At present, low-income earners have the right to pay a reduced price for the first 100 kilowatts per month, and for large families - 300 kilowatts per month. In addition to these two categories, which clearly deserve such state support, I would also like to include those families that raise children with disabilities. Many requests from parents who raise children with disabilities confirm the timeliness of these amendments. All the more so, when I met with representatives of the Special Needs Cooperation Organisation “Sistto” I had confidence that these amendments were very welcome. Compared to other children, the disabled child spends more time at home, consuming correspondingly more electricity, and energy is needed for the care of the child and, sometimes, for special devices. Parents either have to leave work when they grow up in a family like this, or they need to hire a special crèches to look after the child, which is an additional burden on the family budget. Given that further support from protected users is to be decided by the government, I call for a provision to be made in the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers for the support of such families at the level of at least large families. In such a case, the family savings from buying the first 300 kilowatts at a reduced price if the family uses such a discount would amount to about 15 euros per month according to today's electricity prices. If we talk about absolute figures, then we have to say that such support is needed in Latvia for around 8 000 families, and if we are talking about the impact on the budget, then we have to say that it is rather small compared to the public benefit that we all get by supporting these families, who are bravely fighting for their child's health and development every day. So, at the end of my brief speech, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups whose representatives have signed my initiative - the Greens/Farmers' Union, the National Association, the Association of Latvian Regions, “From the heart to Latvia” and, of course, colleagues from SASKANĖ. I call on all Members to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U5	Thank you. I closed the debate. Are Members opposed to passing this draft law on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ; “Ir!” ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - 2 and for - 14. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on the Tax on Micro-enterprises (No. 221/Lp12) submitted by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item on the agenda is "On an own-initiative proposal". The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On task for the Sustainable Development Commission to assess the possibility of reducing the value added tax rate for the supply of heat to households”. Do Members agree that this own-initiative proposal is on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. So this own-initiative proposal is on the agenda of today's sitting. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. ‘ For unpaid leave granted to Member Edward Smilten on 12 March of this year’. Member Edward Smilten has asked for unpaid leave on March 12, this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and you are informed of this. ‘ On 12 March this year, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein was granted unpaid leave.’ Member Alexander Kirštein has asked for unpaid leave on 12 March this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and you are informed of it. ‘ For unpaid leave granted to Marjana Ivanova-Jevsevsevseva on 12 March of this year’. Member Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva has also asked to grant her unpaid leave on 12 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted it, and you are informed about it. The next item is Members' requests. Thus, the request submitted by Members Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Ivars Zariņa, Andrejs Elksniņa, Valija Agešina, Julija Stepanenko and others to Minister for Education and Science Mārīte Seile “On the portal “ www.kola.lv”. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U6	Good morning, honourable colleagues! The application submitted was examined at the commission meeting. I thank all the members of the Commission for this constructive discussion that took place at the meeting. Different views were expressed. The nature and content will be communicated by the applicants, but the motivation was more 'no' and the vote was 'no' to this request. And basically, however, it was also from the applicants that this request was not directed against existing ministers of education and science. Representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science informed about the steps taken at the Ministry to clarify the current situation... on the content of this request... And so, on behalf of the Commission, I call for this request not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U7	Thank you. So we are starting a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U8	Hello, colleagues! Thanks to the questions of members of the SASKAŅA Group, Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile, two weeks ago service test materials related to the development of the project “On the www.kola.lv” were published on the Saeima website. The aim of this examination was one thing: to evaluate the actions of the responsible officials and the responsibility for the need to repay the European Union funding of more than EUR one and a half million, in addition to the EUR three and a half million spent on this project. The bill for more than one and a half million euro for the Ministry of Education and Science has been drawn up and submitted by the Central Financial and Contracting Agency at the same time as an opinion on a one-hundredth of the adjustment concerning the use of ERDF resources by the Ministry. Significantly, the Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile proposed the verification of the service for the project “On the portal www.kola.lv” only on January 20, 2015, i.e. after receiving the CFLA opinion, when there was no place to resign. Despite the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers ordered the Ministry of Education and Science to begin this examination already on 7 October last year, when Ina Druviete, the Minister of Education and Science, it was not possible to meet and talk about the problems of the Ministry, and so Mrs Seiles had to start everything from scratch. When reading the examination report of the Ministry of Education and Science, it appears that the Ministry has suddenly, unexpectedly and from scratch learned that it has worked on a specific and, as representatives of the Ministry now claim, it is so important, necessary and necessary for the project “On the portal www.school.lv”. The dry balance of the report, which is forty pages long, is included in two-page conclusions, the main content of which is as follows: those in charge of the ministry are no longer in office, some officials are no longer in employment, others have a period of disciplinary responsibility. There are also fantastic records from the series of reading material: “The ISM is not found, but there were and then missing documents... but it cannot be ruled out that everything has taken place according to best order.’ In turn, addressing the law enforcement institutions is possible only against the quality of the services of the project manager J.Beniķis. The Beniķis himself, as it turns out, worked for IZM on the basis of a company agreement. Accordingly, he may not be subject to disciplinary action. But as project manager it is Beniķis - and only Beniķis! - is responsible for the quality and compliance with the technical specification of the work of the joint stock company Computer Science Centre. This is what ISM believes. Specifically, the project was implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science, the functions of the responsible institution were carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Central Financial and Contract Agency under the Ministry of Finance was designated as the cooperation institution, but there are no words in the examination materials of the service for the assessment of the actions of the ministers or coalition politicians. What role has coalition played in the implementation of this project? The most direct, as the project of www.kola.lv was also addressed in the coalition partner working group on EU Structural and Cohesion Fund issues. Therefore, it is also understandable that we do not want to look for those responsible. Tomorrow, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, or former Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, will be able to say by spreading his eyes that he has not known about millions scattered in the wind. Also, when you get to know the Service Verification Commission report, you have to think that the Commission has a bit of sweat... it was also necessary to work with not too intelligent and knowledgeable experts to assess the period from 2 July 2009 to 1 April 2013, bearing in mind that the Law on Disciplinary Liability of State Civil Service Officers sets a two-year limitation period for disciplinary violations. On the other hand, the possibility of civil proceedings against the responsible officials - and in this respect the limitation period is 10 years - is not mentioned in any sentence of 40 pages, where the Ministry of Education and Science is still considering bringing an action against the public limited liability company “Centre of Computer Science”. The Minister nominated by the Reform Party did not even write any contractual penalties for this company during Kiel, while Minister Vjačeslav Dombrovsky was calmly missed the opportunity to recover some of the funds spent by the State through the project introduced... the contractually agreed guarantee. At the meeting of the Panel, the Parliamentary Secretary of the ISM, Mr Smiltēna, gave a colossal opinion: “The Cabinet recognises that all these 5 million have been spent on the portal.” Who, then, has learned them or, more precisely, to put the question - who has benefited from it? Here's the winner of Top 3. First. Microsoft Latvia received more than 800 thousand euros for feasibility studies, technical project development and consultations of experts invited on the basis of the contract. Second. Lattelecom SIA - almost half a million euros for project maintenance and administration services. And finally, a joint stock company “Computer Science Centre”, which on the delivery of software licenses, development of the basic functionality of information systems and - attention! - implementation from ISM as a whole has been received (from a fraction: “Theft!” ) 2 million 91 thousand 671 euros and 75 cents. The Latvian public procurement list does not manage, because the Latvian State is the sponsor of some private companies in this case. True, the servers purchased from Lattelecom, according to IZM Parliamentary Secretary, will be used for the needs of the Ministry. Well, thank you for not giving me the scrap! But could we therefore not regard this EUR 5 million of state funds being wasted in the Ministry of Education and Science as one of the most lenght-off of Latvian taxpayers? ( From the group Unity: “Riga Traffic”!) ) The Ministry of Education and Science reports to the media that the material on the verification of service has been submitted for evaluation to the prosecutor’s office. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall inform the media that it has requested additional material from the ICM. As so far nobody has seen the application of ISM to the public prosecutor's office, despite the request made by ISM Members, it is difficult to see what materials ISM has submitted to the public prosecutor's office and what material the public prosecutor's office now lacks. One thing is clear: the task of Head of Government Straujuma - to assess responsibility for loss-making in the country - is fulfilled. Responsibility has been assessed, but the responsibility that people expect... There's no responsibility! In addition, the Joint Stock Company “ Computer Science Centre” continues to learn millions with full speed by developing electronic health cards for the National Health Service, the Disease Prevention and Control Centre – a monitoring information system about patients, and the State Medicines Agency – software for registration of accidents with medical devices. More! According to the media, the joint stock company “Centre of Computer Science” has zeroed as a new order from the Ministry of Education and Science. The company won the purchase! This time, national scientific activities for the development of the information system (From the hall depot. I.Zariņš: “For how much?” ) by EUR 287 000. Information indicating that the tenderer may not have performed another procurement contract qualitatively cannot be considered as objective grounds for exclusion from participation in the competition - this is explained by the Ministry of Journalists led by Mārīte Seile. That is the reason why we, Members of the Group, are waiting for answers from Minister Marite Seile and are staying in force for our request. Thank you for your attention. ( A PASSENGER’S WORDER)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U9	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, To a large extent, Mrs Ločmele-Lunova's speech and the absence of intermediate calls from members of the coalition and other parties show how much so many people are really ashamed of what has happened to the www.kola.lv portal. And to a large extent I will not agree with Mr Brigmanis, who has spoken on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, that the request is not directed directly against the current Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Seile. The request is directed against the current Minister of Education and Science, Mrs Seile! Undoubtedly! Mrs Seile has not been a state official who has introduced this project “On the portal www.kola.lv”. Among them were four more ministers, most of whom represented the Unity. It is clear that Mrs Seile has not been the minister who has mastered the millions. She is also not the person who has, to a large extent, contributed to the transfer of any kind of time-limits for the maintenance of possible European Union co-financing. However, Mrs Seiles is today the only national official who takes responsibility for how the issue of the use of these funds will be resolved in the near future. And the fact that the Ministry of Education and Science has shown today how she wants to solve this problem only on the wind skipped for a moment by just 3.5 million... As a result, there is no investigation by the Ministry of Education and Science. Well, there was no investigation in the Ministry of Education and Science! See 40 - page long report from the Ministry of Education and Science to a commission in which, as such, I am sorry, there were two or three words! A classic example! Indeed, there are compliments here, such as the Minister for the Economy of the Greens/Farmers Union, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who carried out a similar service investigation into the EXPO project. The report of the Ministry of Education and Science contains a simple combination of facts, presented without any conclusions. In addition, investigations by the service are proposed for a period for which disciplinary action cannot be taken. Well, the investigator, I'm very sorry, must be a schizophrenic to investigate the period for which he knows today that he is responsible... He will not exercise disciplinary responsibility because of a two-year limitation period. That's the first story. The second story is about the range of officials to be evaluated and about the specific people. There is no word for all four former ministers of education and science. No words! There is also no word about the working groups of the Coalition Council in which the project was discussed. No word for it! No word for - I am so sorry! - civil liability where the limitation period is 10 years. No word about what these wasted funds should be taken from! Of those employees of the Ministry of Education and Science who were not, within the meaning of the Civil Law, careful and caring owners and have acted so. Not from the same “Centre of Computer Science” that they have not delivered the quality product ordered by the Ministry of Education and Science... Not a word! In criminal law, it is only the project manager - there is something that Beniķis should turn to law enforcement authorities. Until now, it is not clear what exactly the Ministry of Education and Science has addressed in that prosecutor's office - whether it is Beniki or perhaps all four ministers who have monitored. The last one. In the pre-trial investigation carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science, they themselves acknowledge... The Ministry says: “We can’t find documents!” Well, for example, there is a meeting of the coalition working group, it is decided that a report should be directed to the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. There is a resolution by the Secretary of State on the need to draw up a report to the Cabinet of Ministers. There is a record in the system that the message has been prepared but no report. Well, there's no report! Where have these materials disappeared? It's not! Is Kiel, Dombrovskis, Druviete? Which one of them did the service report? Answers are not about this, nor are they about materials that have disappeared in relation to communication between the Ministry and the company that has carried it out - the Computer Science Centre. Imagine how witty a person should be in that investigation commission to conclude that there are no documents! There are no documents, but we cannot rule out that communication on the issue of error prevention has taken place. You're... Well, really witty you're there at the Ministry of Education and Science! And that is why our guideline, which has been drawn up by the Commission for Petitions, is as follows: if Mrs Seiles does not resolve these issues as... Like, for example, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Economics tackles the issue of EXPO project, then... Mrs Seile will simply have to go if she cannot solve them. ( A PASSENGER’S WORDER)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U11	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U12	(From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “Come and... !” ) Well, yes! Colleagues, Mrs Seiles, in the Ministry of Education and Science, started working just a few months before today, but I - even a month later. ( The utterances: “Ah! ” ; “Well?” ) And it has to be said that at first we identified this problem as one of the biggest ones that we will have to address. That is why we started collecting facts and identifying the extent of the problem in good time. Today everyone has to do his or her job: the Ministry of Education and Science - its own and law enforcement institutions - their own. We have collected absolutely all the documents - absolutely all those relating to this case! - and referred them to the General Prosecutor's Office. What is positive is that the Prosecutor General's Office has now requested further information that is of interest to them. This means that they are actively working on this case. We hope to expect about that amount of paperwork! ( The gesture shows the extent of the documents.) - the dry balance will indeed be concrete conclusions and perhaps also criminal proceedings have been initiated on this case, and I hope that the Prosecutor General's Office will do its work very precisely. Second. When evaluating the project as a whole, I have read both opinions and talked to the people who are now responsible for the IT sector and learned their thoughts. It is clear that during this project - which started in 2009 - six ministers and three State Secretaries have been replaced. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš and A.Elksiņš intersage: “Well what?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ There has been a stage... ( Medications.) Let me finish! There has been a phase in this project, when there was no project manager at all. And now imagine... And I had a conversation yesterday... Yesterday in the show I also had a conversation with the managers of the portal www.e-klase.lv, and they said that... You know, the IT sector is developing very rapidly, and if, from 2009 onwards, this project is being pulled out and, at times, this project has no control, it is clear that it has been decided to fail - even if the original idea has been good. And the last one. We have also ensured that these losses resulting from this unrealised project will not affect both teachers' salaries and other priorities of the ISM by decision of the MK. ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) And the last one. I admire the “Centre of Congregation” in dealing with this issue, and I very much hope that you will also solve the problems of “Riga Traffic” in relation to the missing... the stolen nano-waters (From the fraction COLLECTED: “Aye!” “Edward, talk about your thing!” ) and that you will instantly stop both the leaders and the... and so on. ( FROM a faction: “Edvard, you are like a kindergarten! ” ) Unfortunately, we do not see this yet. We have, at least, submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office and are working precisely on this issue. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U13	Name to Member Andrejs Elksniņš, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U14	Dear colleagues, you are really very much fun... and coalition Members are still applauding such speeches. In principle, the coalition's position is this: we have stolen three and a half million, but you look at yourself! The question is very simple (from the Group's Unity: "I think you're more... !” ; dep. A.Leiens, K. Šadurska, E.Smilten intersage.) - Which more! ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “three million – the normal amount!” INTERPRETATION OF THE GROUP OF MEMBERS, I.Viņķelis: “You More?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U15	Mr. Elksniņš, continue the debate, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U16	Yeah, thank you. Dear colleagues, To a large extent, with regard to Mr Smilten's legal arguments, which he has previously mentioned, particularly with regard to factuality, a number of points need to be made here. First of all, you have sent an application to the Prosecutor General in the Ministry of Education and Science to evaluate criminal liability. But I can tell you more! We have also initiated this, and we have also turned to and asked you to reassess the investigations that you have carried out at the Ministry of Education and Science. So look at it in the broadest possible context with regard to all the ministers, the secretaries of the state, including the Prime Minister, who was at some point, who monitored at some point how the millions were then paid. That's the first story. The second story is that we can already send to the Prosecutor's Office... I don't know how you showed... That's... so many pages if there's so much or... I don't know... or something different... The Prosecutor General’s Office shall not refer the case to civil proceedings in respect of the... to the persons who have caused the damage. These are rights that belong... to a particular ministry. And only the Ministry of Education and Science can decide whether or not to turn to the “Centre of Computer Science” or not. The problem in this matter is as follows: you have not even considered the possibility of addressing them, because what will happen if the prosecutor's office finds that, yes, there has been a loss, but they are not assessed in criminal law, because it cannot prove that some of you have received something in between there or, for example, to prove some negligence, which, by the way, will also have prescriptions, because there is a ten-year limitation period in civil terms. You have all these rights as Parliamentary Secretary... you have the right to initiate such a task. And we ask you to do this! In an identical position, the Ministry of Economics has assessed it for EXPO... This is the case. And that is the question of what should be addressed. But what are you doing today? ( From the drug depot. E.Smilten and I.Vinķelis intersacres.) Today you are instead of assessing the possibility of addressing them in civil order, arrest their accounts to have something to recover from them because they don't... They will not now have the two million that have been indicated, and they are, by the way, continuing to learn other projects. You continue to give them other public funds that they should manage. Well, what is that? Corruption?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U17	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U18	First of all, I would like to apologise for calling Mr. Smilten John, but he's Edward... ( The grass is laughter, the mercera.) I really am very sorry, especially given that we participated in a joint radio broadcast yesterday, where a representative of www.e-klase.lv was a third guest. And the question that came from the radio... No, it was the manager who asked this question: “Sorry, please, if the e-class had the means available to the developers of www.school.lv, would the developers of www.e-klase.lv be able to make the system that was needed by the Ministry of Education and Science?” There was such a break, and the very correct businessman said: “Well, of course, we would make several times a larger, more successful, project necessary for the Latvian state.” And I would like to emphasise only that this investigation on the issue of portal www.kola.lv was initiated or not because of the initiative of the party members, but it was initiated by the users of social networks who continue to, so to say, milk information. And I already have the impression that any ministry in Latvia could have similar situations. And I was even told about, let's say, the methods by which this is done, how the project is divided into three parts and why, and so on. And I think some similar comparisons should be applied by area. For example, I will not be surprised if something like that will be revealed to “Latvian Railways”. But when talking about Riga City Council, I can only say that one of the most popular portals working in the field of education is currently the portal www.e-skola.lv created by the municipality of Riga, which is supported by two people – two women – for a simple salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U19	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Ivara Zariņa, Andreja Elksniņa, Valija Agešina, Julija Stepanenko and other Members' request to the Minister for Education and Science, Mārīte Seile “On portal www.kola.lv”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 39, for - 2. The request has therefore been rejected. Thank you. ( FROM a faction: “We live well! ” ) Colleagues! I would like to inform you that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion in the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Microbusiness Tax (No 221/Lp12). Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms and Special Resources’, third, final, reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U20	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. The Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption at its meeting of 10 March this year examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms and Special Resources” and prepared it for the third reading. Six proposals were considered. The proposal is a proposal from the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rihards Kozlovska. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U22	Proposal No 2 is a proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Mr Rihards Kozlovska. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U24	The proposal of Mr Rihards Kozlovska, the Minister for the Interior, is also a proposal. And it's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U26	Proposal No 4 is also a proposal by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rihards Kozlovska. And supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U28	Proposal No 5 and the motion from the Saeima Member, Ms Wöck. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U29	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U30	Proposal 6 and the proposal of the Saeima Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U32	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, please support the third, final reading of the draft law amending the law on the movement of arms and special means.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U33	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the movement of arms and special means! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - 2, for - 4. So the draft law in the third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian National Opera Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ivars Laisvers.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U34	Dear Members, At the meeting of 11 March this year, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Latvian National Opera”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, decided to support the said draft law and to direct it to the first reading of the Saeima. The first five proposals for the proposed amendments are as follows: In the centre of Riga there is a building called “Latvian National Opera”, which is the property of the Riga City Council. This building is rented by a state-owned company with limited liability, which is also called the “National Opera of Latvia” and which is later described as the company. The holder of its shares is the Ministry of Culture, which supervises society. The company wants to change its current name - from “Latvian National Opera” to “Latvian National Opera and Ballet”. I stress that this is not about changing the name of the building. It would continue to be called the “National Opera of Latvia”. According to Section 2(3) of Latvian National Opera Law, the statutes of the Latvian National Opera are approved, as well as amendments are made by the Cabinet of Ministers. As confirmed by the letter addressed to the Saeima Bureau at the meeting of 17 February this year by Prime Minister Laimdotas Straujuma, the Cabinet of Ministers supports the following amendments. Changes in the name of the company are justified by the fact that the new name will more accurately reflect its activities, which include both opera and ballet performances to an equivalent extent. As the representatives of the public have pointed out, misunderstandings are currently arising when the ballet team goes to show, because the official name of the company is misleading to the organizers and visitors of the show, who are offered ballet instead of the opera. The current situation sometimes creates uncertainty in the minds of Latvian people, who sometimes identify the society with a building which is rented from Riga City Council. Let's take a brief look at history. The Latvian opera started its operations in 1912 under the leadership of Pāvuls Jurjans. During the war, opera artists were scattered across Russia, but in 1918, Joseph Vītols and lawyer Andrejs Frīdenbergs gathered them in St. Petersburg and transferred them to Riga, where together with local artists they founded the Latvian Opera, which in autumn 1918 began performances in the premises of the present National Theatre. In August 1919 the Ministry of Education decided to organize the Latvian National Opera, which opened its activities in the premises of the former first Riga city theatre with a performance by Richard Wagner Tanheizer. I stress that there was not yet a ballet troupe, whose birthday is December 1, 1922. Ballet patterns began with the 1922/1923 season. In the course of its long-standing activities, the Latvian National Opera has gained outstanding achievements and great recognition in Latvian and world-wide opera and ballet art. It would be fair to include opera and ballet as equivalent art fields in the title. The draft law has no impact on the state budget, because the expenditure related to the change of name will be covered by the company’s own revenue. The estimated costs have been estimated at around 13 thousand euros, of which 5 thousand euros will be allocated for the development of a new logo and the preparation of a style book, 3 thousand euros for the preparation of envelopes, business cards and other presentation materials, 5 thousand euros for the creation of a new website. As pointed out by the Chairman of the Board of the company, the logo, websites, forms, business cards and other presentation materials should be renewed even if the name is not changed. The proposal for the proposed amendments provides for changes to Section 7.2(1) of the Latvian National Opera Law, where instead of the previous norm (the other members of the Board have the right of joint representation with the Chairman of the Board). ) provides: ‘The other members of the Management Board shall have the right of common representation with at least one other member of the Management Board.’ These changes are justified by the fact that they must be made in order to comply with Article 223 of the Commercial Law and to avoid a contradiction that the rights of representation of two board members are not of legal importance. On behalf of the Commission, I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U35	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U36	Dear President, Honourable Members! In no case, without objecting to the desire to improve and change the name, I may point to some inaccuracy in what the previous speaker said. The first opera performance took place in 1782 at the Riga German Opera and Drama Theatre, where both Italian and German operas visited... with opera performances... The first Latvian performance was in 1893, called “Spoku Hour”. The Commission, I think, should consider very carefully whether to expect Latvia to do so... The centenary of our National Opera, which will be in four years' time. We're often surprised... We wish to add to the name of the institution all the activities which are carried out within that institution. Is this always justified, and is it right? We're... And it should also be considered whether it could be named as follows: “Latvian National Opera and Ballet”. However, it would be right to say “ Opera and Ballet Theatre” in Latvian, because according to the grammar features of Latvian, you can dance in the opera, but you cannot sing in the ballet, because the word “ballet” only refers to the action. We cannot say about the theatre “National Drama”, we say “National Drama Theatre” (From the hall: Opera of the Latvian National Association!) ) or “The Drama Theatre”. We cannot say about the theatre “National Drama and Comedy”. We're not going to call this theatre this way! But of course you have to think about it. So maybe just a theatre. There is one disaster: if we say "National Opera and Ballet Theatre", it is associated with what the Communists have most hated. That is, the Communists hated any such name and, when they established Soviet power, immediately renamed the Latvian National Opera as the LSSR Opera and Ballet Theatre. That may not be a very pleasant association. The other thing is that this name links these historical traditions. There are museums related not only to Latvia, but also internationally... In the past, aphishes, newspaper reviews, booklets have been printed... And I would like to remind you that in the Latvian National Opera, such famous conductors as Emil Kuper (from 1926 to 1929), who was the conductor of the Metropolitan Opera after the war, and Leo Bleh, who was the conductor of the Stockholm Royal Opera and the Berlin Symphony Orchestra after the war. In 1934, the Latvian National Opera with the Jazeps Mediņs ballet “Love Victory” successfully performed not in “The Royal Opera and Ballet of Stockholm”, but in the Royal Opera of Stockholm. We should remember that the ballet troupe took the title “Latvian National Opera” in Berlin, Brussels, Budapest, Helsinki, Tallinn, Kaunas and that theatre criticisms in newspapers, reviews, booklets, aphishes and everything else remain everywhere. Will there be a sudden change in the name, let's say, some chaos? Well, maybe the descendants of the same Emil Cooper can not understand that their father or grandfather has conducted in the famous Latvian National Opera: maybe he has conducted some other opera? Because now it will have a different name! It is not true that the role of ballet was not assessed before the war. In the Latvian National Opera there were performed 40 ballet, more than 90 operas and 19 operattes. Very great operattes! We're not going to put an operatte in the title either? In this case, it should also be remembered that we should consider Marija's theatre primaballerina Aleksandra Fjodorova as the founder of the classical opera in Latvia, which is therefore very strict... Under her very strict leadership, this famous Riga classical ballet was created, which worked in the Latvian National Opera and not in opera and ballet, therefore... Oh, now it's a little bit of annotation... There's a lot of changes. I also saw, unfortunately, that the Amsterdam Music Theatre, which was renamed English, is still called the Dutch National Opera and Ballet Theatre. The word “theater” is added there. If we're talking about Opéra national de Paris, then there's... Yeah, there's two bits, but there's two theaters. Perhaps the commission may think about the creation of two groups with separate names? Let's say, there's a National Ballet Company and a National Opera Company. Or something different. Therefore, I think that it is necessary to either put this word “theatre” on board, respecting the principles of Latvian spelling and grammar, or perhaps still to think about and leave this name as it is, because we were already surprised, for example, by the name of the conservatory, calling it the Academy of Music. But if we have that desire to rename everything, then maybe I will end with that we could rename, as I said, Drama Theatre as a National Drama and Comedy. And a monument to Freedom could also be called a monument to Freedom, Democracy and Tolerance. If we change, then we change everything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U37	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U38	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! Mr. Kirstein, good morning! It was nice about history, thank you! But, thank God, the Latvian National Opera has a knowledgeable and talented manager in Zigmars Liepiņš person. Opera - it is, however, a classic genre, but classics also need to develop. And Latvian ballet houses for decades... You even said hundreds... is the Latvian National Opera. And it is only logical that it is offered – “Latvian National Opera and Ballet”. And there's nothing to discuss here! The ballet also has a home, and it is normal that this word “ballet” is added. That's it. I've spoken. Thank you. (Applause, interns; dep. I. Viņķelis: Bravo! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U39	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Opera of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 42, for - 3, for - 18. So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U40	Do I have the right to respond within two minutes to what Mr Kirštein said? I just wanted to make it clear that we're not talking about changing the name... their name is changed...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U41	I am sorry, Mr. Freeer. You must specify the deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U42	On the deadline for the second reading, I propose setting 27 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U43	So there are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 27 March this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia””, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U44	Dear President, dear colleagues. We work with document 463. The draft law “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”” consists of amendments of a more precise nature, because previously adopted regulations are morally obsolete. Regulations establish the procedure for ensuring representation of the interests of Latvia in international human rights institutions and the functions and rights of persons representing the interests of Latvia, as well as the procedure for exercising functions and rights. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law before the first reading and supported it. On behalf of the Commission, I call on my colleagues to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U45	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U46	Deadline for submission of proposals - March 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U47	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 27 March this year. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U48	Yeah, we're working on bill No. 193/Lp12. The draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Transport” continues our practice – now to open the airspace in the Gulf. It's another contract. The Foreign Commission examined the draft law and supported it for consideration by the Saeima at first reading. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U49	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the agreement on air traffic between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U50	March 27th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U51	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 27 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U53	The next item is the bill "Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials", second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U54	Hello, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U55	Colleagues, please stop negotiations so that the rapporteur has the opportunity to report! Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U56	We are looking at the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials”. I would like to remind you that this amendment is due to the establishment in the home system of the Office for Internal Security and to the establishment of two officials - the head of the Office and the deputy head of the Office - in this list of officials provided for by the draft law in question. After the first reading, five proposals were received, which means that it is no longer an amendment but an amendment. The proposals 1, 2 and 3 are interrelated. Their initiators are the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau and the State Audit Office. The proposal, which the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government supported, provides for expressing the second paragraph of Article 4, in the wording, which is also partly taken from Section 18 of this Law. The Commission, after examining this proposal, supported it and supported the proposed version.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U58	Proposal No 2 and proposal No 3 relate and concern the first and second paragraphs of Article 18. Given that proposal 1 has been approved... It therefore appears necessary to clarify the first paragraph of Article 18. And the proposed new version of the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U59	So, Proposal No 2... Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U60	Proposal No 2...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U61	... supported by the Commission. And the Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U62	... the Commission's proposal, which has been supported. So...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U63	3. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U64	... the need to maintain the second paragraph of Article 18 falls. And 3. - The proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government - has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U66	4. - The proposal of the National Administration and Municipal Commission provides for entry into force... the date of entry into force of this provision. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U68	5. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U70	All the proposals have therefore been examined. The Commission calls for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U71	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U72	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 24 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U73	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 24 March this year. The next item is the draft law on the Microbusiness Tax Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U74	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Microbusiness Tax Act provides that the taxpayer of the micro-enterprises tax a declaration on a quarterly... its quarterly declaration and taxes shall be paid for the first quarter of the year before 15 April. Since the Saeima currently has extensive amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax, which deals with the transition from the current 11 percent tax rate to the 9 percent tax rate, it is clear that the law will not enter into force until April 15, but a little later. Thus, taxable persons have a great deal of uncertainty about how to prepare the accounts and when to submit them to the State Revenue Service. In turn, the State Revenue Service has problems with the adoption of reports, because currently, according to the current law, it is necessary to accept reports with a calculation - 11 per cent, but now it is felt that this norm will be 9 per cent. The substance of the proposal is therefore very simple: this year, the deadline for the submission of quarterly declarations and the payment of taxes is set from 15 May to 25 May of this year, because, unlike the previous one, there is also a start-up phase - 15 May and the end from 25 May. And we expect that by May 15, the amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law will have entered into force and that there will therefore be clarity for both the State Revenue Service and entrepreneurs, how to prepare these reports and how to pay the tax. In view of the urgency of amending this provision, the Commission requests that this draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U75	So we must vote on urgency first. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on micro-enterprises tax law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U76	Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this draft law at first reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Microbusiness Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U78	The honourable Members, the Commission, when examining this draft law, decided that, given the urgency of its adoption and the simplicity of this amendment, there was no need for a re-examination by the Commission between the two readings, and I would therefore ask, on behalf of the Commission, without re-examination, to support this draft law at second, final, reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U79	Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on micro-business tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law "Amendment to the Microbusiness Tax Act" has been approved at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U80	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U81	Thank you. The next item on the agenda is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U82	Colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission invites the Saeima to agree to a reallocation of appropriations. In particular, it is about the reallocation of a specific amount of money - 20 674 EUR - from the Ministry of Education and Science’s sub-programme “Industry Management Support Measures” to the programme “Ambient grant for municipalities” to ensure pay for the teachers of Vecbebru’s professional and general education boarding school in Koknese municipality. I call for support for this redistribution.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U83	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft decision is therefore supported. The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". On the agenda draft decision “On task for the Sustainable Development Commission to assess the possibility of reducing the value added tax rate for the supply of heat to households”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U84	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 17 December 2014, the Saeima received a collective application from Latvian citizens to reduce the value added tax (VAT) rate for heating. The Saeima was invited to reduce the VAT rate for heating from 12 percent to 5 percent. Upon the request of the Saeima Presidium of 18 December 2014 for verification of data provided by applicants, on January 8, 2015 the Saeima received an application from the Director of the Citizens' Register of the Civil Service and Migration Administration regarding the Data of the Population Register. The application reported that out of 10 376 signatories' data on the corresponding status of signatories, there are 10 019 person codes. On January 12th, 2015 Saeima Presidium decided to submit a collective application - to reduce the VAT rate for heating - for consideration by the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application. After eight days, the Commission started its initial assessment of the collective application and on 21 January 2015 in the meeting of the Commission decided on representatives of the institutions to be invited, which are affected by the requirements of the application. The next meeting was held on 18 February 2015, and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Arvils Asheraden, and an authorised representative of the applicants - Jānis Kuzins, Chairman of the Council of the Latvian Confederation of Independent Trade Unions. Jānis Kuzins expressed the position of the applicants to reduce the VAT rate for heating from 12 to 5 percent, as it was before the financial crisis in the country, and as one of the arguments for the claim of the applicants mentioned the promise of former Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis to establish that the VAT rate for heating will be 5 percent when the financial crisis in the country is over. Citizens call on the government to honour its promises. The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, continuing the discussion, gave the Ministry's opinion on this initiative. He said that, overall, the Ministry was negative about the proposal to reduce the VAT rate. At the same time, he reported that tax policy in the country had been approved and that it did not provide for a reduction in VAT. Additional financial resources are also needed from the state budget in other areas of the country, such as national defence, which requires funds for armaments and military equipment. Moreover, the Parliamentary Secretary pointed out, at the same time, that a positive decision - a reduction in the VAT rate for heating - would result in an annual loss for the country of around EUR 15 million. As regards national VAT rates, the representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that in Latvia they are regulated under the European Union Directive, which allows for the setting of three VAT rates: one standard and two reduced. Unfortunately, currently Latvia has not set the third reduced rate - 5 per cent - for none of the services, while it has chosen one standard rate - 21 per cent - and one reduced rate - 12 per cent. In 2007 the VAT rate for the supply of thermal energy in Latvia was 5 per cent, but then it was set at 10 per cent in accordance with EU rules, and in 2010 it was set at 12 per cent. As regards heat consumption tariffs in the country, the Ministry provides data that compared to last year's period, the heat tariffs have decreased by 1.6 percent, due to the drop in gas and fuel prices, the decrease in household energy consumption and various insulation effects and improvements in devices. The Commission took note of the information provided by the Ministry of Finance. Elīna Celmina, Director of the Department of Social Inclusion and Social Labour Policy of the Ministry of Welfare, provided information on the housing issue in Latvia at the meeting of the Committee on 4 March 2015. The Ministry's representative pointed out that, in the country's housing issue, they are among the worst in the European Union, directly linked to the quality of housing, such as living in old housing, often without water, heating, with rotting walls and running roofs. In response to a study carried out by the Ministry of Economics, the representative reported that 24 percent of households in the country have an average difficulty in keeping housing warm, so it can be concluded that the issue of housing support is topical for people. According to a study, people first make mandatory binding payments for housing, and only then for all the others. In general, the Ministry of Welfare expresses a positive assessment of the claim and believes that additional studies on VAT rate, reducing the heating tariffs on different groups of the population are necessary. The Commission took note of the views of the Ministry of Welfare and acknowledged the need for further analysis of issues in both the social and economic dimensions. Andris Ekermanis, the Energy Adviser of the Latvian Municipal Union, agreed with the Ministry of Welfare that additional research is needed on the issue of reducing the VAT rate for heating. The Commission took note of the opinion of the Latvian Municipal Union. Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Edgars Putra added that the introduction of insulation measures in the country could be an alternative solution to the future problem. In general, the Commission supported the Ministry’s possible follow-up to this problem. The Commission could not support the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the rejection of the application, since it would then restrict citizens' rights and opportunities, create additional administrative burdens for public authorities and other burdens. In the area of housing, the Commission welcomed and supported the principles and proposals of the Ministry of Welfare to further study the problem, taking into account its impact on social groups and on economic indicators. The Commission welcomed the initial assessment of the Ministry’s report, the collective submission, including the exchange of information between commissions and the provision of opinions. The Commission's report clearly shows that further analysis is needed for the requirements set out in the application, and therefore, in the light of the initial overall assessment of the application, the Commission calls on the Sustainable Development Commission to continue its assessment in order to obtain and assess the most recent information, as it could possibly reduce the VAT rate to around 5 percent in the country. And if deemed possible, it could be decided to prepare the appropriate draft law. In view of the current economic situation in the country, the Commission is aware that the introduction of the requirement requires competent knowledge and time and therefore there are no time limits for the performance of the given tasks. As the requirements of the application relate to tax policy and concerns issues relating to public well-being, the Commission recommended, at the beginning of the evaluation of the application, that the evaluation of the application be guided... the Commission for Sustainable Development or the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. The Commission expressed its support for the draft decision and instructed the Commission for Sustainable Development to examine the possibility of reducing the value added tax rate on heating energy supplies to households. At its meeting on 11 March 2015, most members of the Commission supported the draft law. At the same time, the Commission considers and invites applicants to participate actively in the evaluation process of the application, to make use of the opportunity to participate in the work of the panel and to submit further proposals and materials. The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U85	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U86	Dear President, Honourable Members! I highly appreciate the established public initiative platform www.manabals.lv and this possibility that 10 thousand signatures may come to the Saeima. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has decided to refer the proposal to the Commission for Sustainable Development for reducing the rate of value added tax on heating. Dear Members, The Parliament's Sustainable Development Commission was set up to ensure parliamentary involvement in the monitoring and analysis of Latvia's long- and medium-term objectives in the framework of the development of long-term strategic plans. Of course, the Commission has, and it should also be a platform for discussing new initiatives aimed at the future of Latvia. But I repeat: this is about medium- and long-term strategic developments. Does this initiative relate to the medium- to long-term development strategy of Latvia? In my opinion, it is most directly related only to the budget and to the tax system in Latvia. By the way, taxes and budgetary proposals worldwide are being treated with extreme care. Example: In none of the countries in the world tax or budget issues are included in the range of issues on which a referendum is possible at all, where everything is decided with the support of the majority of the people. Even for three years we have been debating here and we have not stopped discussing municipal referendums, and no time has there been a proposal that municipal budgets could also be subject to this kind of evaluation. What would I have done, and what I would have recommended to the Mandate, ethics and application to the Commission if they had invited... Is that so? But since this call did not exist, I would like to say it right now. After all the written opinions received, I think that the budget and financial (tax) commission would be the right place in that case, or... I have heard from Members that the issue is very, very social, because it affects extremely many people who cannot pay for heating, who have problems. And this can also be accepted, and probably the applicants have also thought so, as I understood from the rapporteur. In that case, perhaps our Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, which has very large professionals, would appreciate it and find it perhaps more effective - even more effective! - ways to help people who cannot pay (from the drug depot. A.Barch's intermediates. Depp. A.Lejins aplaudes.) and for whom it would be a certain relief. Honourable Members! Once again, I recognise that such an initiative... such a platform for submitting initiatives is very good and that we should not be restricted either, despite what I said about the budget and referendums... that we should not limit the scope of the issues on which initiatives can be put. But I call for it to be returned to the Mandate, ethics and application commission, to invite - finally to invite! - also in the Commissions - the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - (From the room depot. A.Elksniņš: “What is this about the club?” ) to discuss the substance of this issue and then put it on the agenda rather than now hand it over to the Sustainable Development Commission. Of course, if you believe that the Sustainable Development Commission is the one that can be discussed and that can be given everything and anything, then we will be discussing it. But don't forget that in that case I'll probably be standing here again after a while! Only 400 signatures are currently lacking for the legalisation of marijuana. That question will also come to you. ( From the drug depot. V. Orlov: “Let’s reject it! Let us reject it right away!” ) At present there is a proposal in the process “Latvia without a pit!” , and if we continue to do so, then I think we'll wait... we will also welcome the proposal "Latvia is free of tax!" . Thank you. I call for the 'no' vote and for a return to the discussions in the Commission. ( From the drug depot. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U87	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U88	Dear Members, I will refrain from appreciating Mr Kučinska's perhaps well-founded remarks about communication between the commissions and from making a proposal on the substance. And the proposal is not about - to support or not support the reduction in the tax rate - but about which commission to guide this issue. In my view, the Commission for Sustainable Development is the right parliamentary commission to deal with this matter, and I will try to explain why. The work of Members is based on decision-making and we need to make good decisions. However, evaluation criteria are needed to assess whether or not the decision is good. Such a criterion is derived from the objective pursued. A common goal is necessary not only for the whole Latvian society, but also for the whole world. Only the United Nations, which it has also done in 1987, can give such an expression of purpose on behalf of the whole world. The World Commission on Environment and Development, which is commonly referred to as the Bruntland Commission, then produced a report entitled "Our Common Future". This report sets out and explains the objective of sustainable development. From that point of view, the criteria for assessing any decision are also clear. This objective also appears in the declarations and strategic documents of the Latvian government, but what Mr Kučinska said is also of concern to me as to whether society has a common understanding of this concept. I have read, spoken and written a lot about this, so I will briefly give my understanding of what sustainable development means. First of all, I would like to point out that development and growth are not synonyms, as is sometimes the case with the parliamentary tribunal. According to semantics of these words, growth means quantitative change, but development means qualitative change. Are quantitative changes always leading to qualitative changes? Can There Be Growth Without Development? The success stories of Latvia suggest that growth does not always generate development, because sustainable development is a goal only on paper. I will briefly explain the concept of sustainability. Today's problems cannot be tackled at the expense of the future, and this is not just about budget and money. The concept of sustainability, Mr Kučinski, should not be confused with a long-term concept (From the Group's point of view: "Right!" ), as is often done in Latvia. Therefore, long-term growth and sustainable development are extremely different concepts. The Bruntland Commission's report deals with three dimensions of sustainable development: the environmental dimension, the economic dimension and the social dimension. This means that any decision must be seen in all three of these equally important dimensions. Moreover, the environmental dimension does not just mean the natural environment, but also the legal environment, the religious environment, the ethnic environment, the cultural environment and other environmental aspects. Unfortunately, it is common practice to assess decisions in only one aspect of the economy, as in the present case, by directing the matter to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. I do not deny that this is also a matter for this committee, but it is just one of the three dimensions. I believe that it is high time to shift sustainable development from paper to real life. ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “Vo!” ) That is why the Commission for Sustainable Development must be the main decision-making body for dealing with this and other issues in line with the guidelines for sustainable development, with, of course, other commissions involved in preparing the decision, as is the case here with the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, if necessary. I therefore call on Members to support the proposal of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Thank you. ( The Group of the LRA, the Group of the NSL and the Group of the EFTA States are applauded.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U89	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U90	Dear colleagues, Thank you, Mr Freeer, for your speech, and you are absolutely right that all the dimensions must be taken into account when considering any matter. But it is unfortunately the privilege of the opposition to share money that is not there. (The intermediate names of the opposition.) It is unfortunately more difficult for the position, and therefore I too would have been very grateful if the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission had been involved in this matter. ( From the drug depot. A. Elksniņš: “Give you!” ) Now, when talking about money that is or is not, a small lyrical derogation. At the moment in the public space, public interest has been expressed by the Prime Minister's statement that perhaps we will not be able to reduce personal income tax next year, although promised. The Government Declaration commits to reduce labour taxes as far as possible and to increase consumption tax. ( From the drug depot. A.Elksniņš: “The limits of options” are not written there!” ) VAT on the supply of heat is clearly a consumption tax. Consequently, this reduction in the rate of duty would not be in line with the undertaking contained in the Government Declaration. There is, of course, social tension on this issue. But now for all these possible tax reductions in general. Dear colleagues, When promises, strategies and faulty plans for economic development were made, we did not know about Russia's aggression in Ukraine. ), not about the sanctions of the European Union and Russia's sanctions, we did not know about the drop in the rubble rate. ), but all these factors have an impact both on slowing the pace of our economic development and, of course, on our priorities. When it comes to our priorities, it must be said that - of course! - the first one at the moment is the existence of the state and national security. If we have to invest an amount which is written with eight zeros and which unfortunately does not stand alone in the defence and home system... And here I am talking both about increasing the number of soldiers by several thousand, and about buying arms to prevent possible aggression and informing a potential aggressor about it: “Never try!” . And we are talking about strengthening the Eastern border. Even so, in order for us to receive technical assistance from our allies - NATO - we need to ensure that we can make this assistance available and that the eastern border is regulated for the installation of these technologies. Dear colleagues, I believe that talking about tax reductions at this point is irresponsible because... The main thing I want is for us to have an independent state in our life in which we can plan our own tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U91	We are continuing the debate. The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U92	President-in-Office. Colleagues! I have to admit that I am a little disappointed with the board of Mandate, Ethics and Application and want to get rid of this issue. Let us remember 2012 when this collective application was actually made! It was a hard winter, the issue was decided sometime at least three times at the initiative of the “Conciliation Centre”. I remember, there was a crowd outside the Saeima House - many people who were mostly from the politically neutral trade union LABA, which organized... And the Members of the “Centre of Reconciliation” one by one in a round triple with glowing talk about stealing a company that has no charge for the heat and so on. And what happens now, two years later? No one is absolutely interested in that. You want to get rid of this and absolutely no longer want to deal with it. The only thing that is still of interest to you is your ideological... the idea-receiving anti-fascist Kuzin. But let's take it for... Let's take it as an example... What does this idea actually give? Two years ago, when the winter was severe, the tariffs were high, the average monthly heating costs were about... Let's say about a two-room apartment in 100 lats. So actually, at that point, by offering this offer, if VAT were reduced, a real person would save 7 lats. Yes, so in fact, if a person cannot pay 100 lats for heating, then in your opinion, 93 lats, for example, could be paid. Well, obviously it's not a way out! And the way out is only to warm up, where you can save up to 50 percent and more. Then let's see what has changed, let's take it, in the same Riga, starting in December 2012, when this initiative was presented. So at that time, the manager of the “Riga House” project, who manages approximately 70 percent of all apartment houses in Riga... There were five houses in the project phase. At present, two houses have been warmed up precisely. In these two years, two houses. Then, if we take into account the fact that the manager of “Riga House” has 4 300 houses, this insulation will actually end... the fifth century after Usakov and the management of SAKANI in Riga. ( From the medicine, “It won’t control for so long! ” ) So in fact it is not necessary to come with loud slogans, but simply do. But there is also good news in all this. There's good news. Also without all your actions - more precisely inaction! - good things have happened. This year has been a warm winter, which has thus reduced payments. And also, due to the drop in oil prices, in fact, in the country since December 2012 already... The tariff has already fallen by more than 10 percent. So doing nothing has achieved even a result that is higher than your offer. Then I call on you, my fellow Members, especially from SASKARIA, to travel to cities such as Valmiera, Cesis, Preili and to see how the warming is going to take place there, as it should. And then there will not be any such loud and illogical slogans. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U93	Colleagues, before we continue the debate, I would like to inform you that five Members - Shadurski, Lībiņa-Egnere, Mežulė, Sergeant and Krauz - have been asked to continue the sitting on 19 March without interruption and to discuss all the issues. Do Members agree? Members agree. We are continuing the debate. So Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U94	Hello, colleagues! Reflecting on what was said in the barn, such a “butter” in this barn has long been not a cult. Today we should discuss whether or not we are looking at this popular initiative. Instead, what are we talking about here at all? ( From the drug depot. V.Kirsis: “In essence!” ) There is no emphasis on this issue at all. If you remember, very recently... very recently, we examined another popular initiative submitted to the Saeima. It was in the context of the rearing of fur animals. And then, rewording the words of a well-known song that "the song is not about shirts, but about consciences", I tried to explain to you that it was not about fur, nor was it about the people's ability to exercise this democratic right that we have given it ourselves, to participate in the legislative process. However, this was not discussed at all. Now what is being discussed? Calling... As usual - and it is already customary - when Putin is called for no other argument, geopolitism is called, and it is a feeling that it is your closest ally you use in all your troubles (The Hall's depot. J.Kursīte-Pakules and I.Vinķele intersage: “On the essence! The essence!’ ), instead of discussing the substance. In essence, when it comes to this proposal, the question is: do we look at this popular initiative or reject it without once again looking at it? Colleagues, what happens to your former justice coalition? Maybe someone should help you get acquainted with the parliamentary roll of order? Being... The essence of this proposal is that we are looking at or not looking at? And the proposal is to look at this popular initiative if you have prepared this popular initiative... if you have given the people this opportunity to express their views and to put forward legislative initiatives. It's not just fiction - a valve for steam launching so the people ignore! So I call on you to support it once. And let's start looking at it! Then, here, the whole argument that was mentioned would really be in place, and we would come to a decision what to do with it, not to reject it now, without looking at it at all. I call for this popular initiative to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U95	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U96	Honourable Members! My speech will not be long. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications is to refer the relevant collective submissions to the relevant Commission and that nothing else is at stake. Consequently, Mr Shadurski and Mr Kerša's admiration for or against the particular proposal will be, in substance, discussed by the relevant committee and not now at the Saeima sitting. We are, after all, considering this application in another commission so that it can be examined there. And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that if we hand over this particular proposal... the budget and financial (tax) commission, then there will immediately be a trap for the initiative in question without any detailed consideration of this initiative. I would like this process and this proposal to be dealt with in terms of substance and precisely of long-term development. And so I think that the commission led by the honourable Mr Kučinskis here is the best place where this proposal can be examined in substance. Thank you. ( From the drug depot. M. Kučinskis: “And the rest will be given without... Is that so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U97	The name to Member Ivar Freezer, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U98	Well, actually, Mr. Pimenov said almost exactly what I wanted to say. Because, you see, in this vote, in which I will vote in favour, I will not vote in favour... I also fully agree with what Mr Shadurski and Mr Kerša have said. And if I had to vote in favour of lowering this rate, I would vote 'no'. However, this is not a question of the vote on the tax. The proposal was to move this issue forward for the Sustainable Development Commission, and this discussion started on the fact that it was not the real Commission. And if the Commission on Sustainable Development really understands this concept in a different way - I think it is different from the United Nations guidelines - then it may be that it really needs to be directed at other commissions. I repeat, however, that the concept of "sustainable development" is, however, not understood as a long-term one... That is, “sustainable” does not mean 10, 20 or how many years, but it means everything... So, as I said, do not solve today's problems at the expense of the future, whether it is tomorrow or after 10 or 20 years. That is why - yes, Mr Kučinski, your commission should actually be the principal commission, because, you see, its name includes the aim. And that... As I said, in Latvia this goal is unfortunately only on paper, then maybe we also have these success stories on paper. So, here's what I wanted to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U99	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U100	Dear colleagues, In this debate, there have been many misunderstandings from the Tribunal in relation to the parliamentary roll of order. What can we debate here today, and what is the subject of our vote? So it is about whether we, as a collegial institution, where we, as Members, are working in several commissions, recognise that this proposal is sufficiently prepared to be passed on from the Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission to another commission, or whether we believe that the application should be returned to the Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission, that further work should be carried out and perhaps thought to whether another commission should be handed over or that the Cabinet of Ministers should be asked to participate more widely, or that a task force should be set up within the Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission itself. Very many different models. But I really do not want us to think that the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications is a mailbox where initiatives are put together, and that another commission, which has a name that matches the substance of the initiative, is found as soon as possible, and that it simply goes beyond what is necessary. I think this is really not the job. Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application... We strengthened the parliamentary roll of amendments to the Commission, where there are two representatives from each political group. I hope that each political group has sent people who are really able to focus, as colleagues have said here, on all the dimensions and indeed on the initiative, and put it to a commission with which it is agreed that it can continue to work, rather than football from one commission to another, when the chairman of each committee is on board and says: 'Please, I don't!' I really call for a collegial approach to these initiatives. I will vote 'no' because I believe that there has not been such a collegial job at the moment. It is necessary to return the mandates, ethics and application to the commission, prepare the application in such a way that the commission of the beneficiary is prepared to continue its work, rather than doing so by some method of coercion or Mars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U101	Thank you. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U102	Dear colleagues, I want to turn to Mr. Chersh. Maybe he'll still read the Saeima roll and find out... You will find out, either from your colleagues or, at the same time, that the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission has been given a deadline - within three months of the initiative entering the Saeima to prepare a draft decision. ( Shows a roll of order by the Saeima.) None of us had the position of betraying someone. We had already decided to hand over to the Cabinet of Ministers and reject the initiative. We're looking... Just said Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, the members of each political group are elected to the Commission, those who work. If you are dissatisfied with the work of Members, change them, please. If you are not satisfied with the parliamentary roll, change it! If you believe that a commission should look at any issues in the commission, then change the roll of order of the Saeima, and the Saeima Presidium should immediately hand it over to the relevant commission. Our committee works on the parliamentary roll, two draft decisions were prepared, and the draft decision was supported, which was voted on by more Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U103	We are continuing the debate. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U104	Madam President, Colleagues! Three things are just what we all know, but maybe it is worth repeating. It's about long-term solutions, and I... It is quite right that Mr Chersch said that this is about insulation. I would just like to mention a few simple things. Heat is extremely cost-saving. And I would also like to mention that there were people who said this time in the Information Technology and Innovative Entrepreneurship Commission led by Mr Zarins... entrepreneurs, managers who said that by introducing new pipes and boilers in the house immediately saved consumption by 20 percent. This alone was necessary and can be paid very quickly with energy savings. This is a long-term solution! I'm not talking about insulation. In Lithuania, thousands of projects are now being opened and we are far behind. Why does this not happen in Riga? This simply does not happen in Riga, and it does not give much, that in Valmiera it has been done. Second. We all know that there is a drop in oil prices. Has it not been noticed in Latvia? Prices are falling everywhere - in Germany, Poland... gas prices also fall in Klaipeda. You know that Lithuania now has a new gas terminal, a liquefied gas terminal. Immediately prices fell by 30 percent in Lithuania. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “Dumbness!” ) The logic is that in just two or three weeks' time, the European Commission is going to bring an action against the gas monopoly Gazprom, and this also applies... The complaint is that they have abused their monopoly position, and it will also apply to long-term contracts, which means that they will also be able to reduce the price of gas in Latvia, despite the fact that there are long-term contracts. So, please, let's think about long-terms, not short-terms! The world is changing dramatically - the warming, the drop in the gas price and the fact that the commission itself has now come to this end will also have lower prices in Latvia in the future.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U105	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U106	Dear colleagues, Talking about insulation of houses (The drug depot. I.Viņķelis: “On the topic!” ), I would ask you...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U107	Mrs Lochmele-Lunova, I am very sorry! You need to talk about the subject of the agenda. ( FROM a faction: “Let it speak! It’s a topic!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U108	I just wanted to step up the argument by talking about the need to refer this matter to the appropriate Commission, and I think that any of our Members, like the members of the Sustainable Development Commission, are able to deal with the substance of this issue, an issue that concerns the interests of citizens throughout Latvia. When it comes to insulation in Riga, I can only point to the fact that, of course ( Interdependences of the drug. Depp. E.Smilten: “On the topic!” Depp. A.Klementjevs and G.Kūtris: “Yours have spoken!” ), there are no buildings in Cēsis with 12, 16 or 19 floors. But according to the law, 70 percent of apartment owners need support to warm up the building. And, of course, it is much easier to do this in Cēsis than in Riga. Thank you. ( The Room Noise. (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U109	Colleagues! The Bureau is not talking to the hall. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš. I ask you to stick to the question and to the agenda for any future debate. Please! The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U110	(From the drug depot. A.Judins: “Delegate or not hand over to the commission?” ) No, well, colleagues! Indeed, I think we have to stop breaking the slices here for who is guilty to a small extent, who - to a large extent. And in fact, there is nothing here to debate. ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķele: “Thank you!” ) The question is absolutely simple. The question is absolutely simple! ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) An initiative has been put forward under the parliamentary roll of order. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, within the meaning of the parliamentary order roll, is indeed the “postbox” in which all its initiatives come. The question is, how effective or how ineffective they will be there. That is an absolutely different question! We must, following today's debate, change the roll of order of the Saeima and give the Saeima Presidency the right to determine on which issue a commission... which the Commission will assess a public initiative. But today, to a large extent, there is no choice. Because the Saeima Mandate, ethics and application commission has been given three months to decide what to do with the initiative. And today's decision has to be made - either this public initiative has to be passed on to the relevant commission or simply has to be rejected. There are no other options! ( Insights of the medicine: “Take their decision! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U111	Let's go... So I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On task for the Sustainable Development Commission to assess the possibility of reducing the value added tax rate for the supply of heat to households”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 39, for - 4. So the draft decision returns to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Colleagues, I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions... in the context of the meeting scheduled for today at 5 p.m. The question of Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and other Members to the Minister of Transport Anry Matīss about the future development of AS Air Baltic Corporation. A written reply has been received and the applicants are not satisfied. The Minister may not appear before him to give an oral answer. The question of Members Silver, Shifas, Baloža, Maya and other Members to the Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seilei “On the network of vocational education institutions and the programmes implemented”. A written reply was received, whose applicants are not satisfied, but the Minister is unable to attend the oral response. The question of Member Lochmele-Lunova, Elksniņa, Nikiforova, Adamson and Arthur Rubika, Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seilei About the project “Development of the portal www.school.lv” A written reply was received, whose applicants are not satisfied, but the Minister is unable to attend the oral response. The question to the Minister for Health Guntis Belevičs, the Minister for Health “On the E-Health Project” by Members Lochmele-Luniv, Elksniņa, Ivan Klementyeva, Orlova and Ribakov. The written reply received shall satisfy the applicants. The question to the Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs about the information systems for monitoring the implementation of the Single Health Statistics and Health Service Providers’ Development Programme is a question for Members Lochmele-Luniv, Ivan Klementyeva, Zemlinsk, Orlova and Ribakov. A written reply was received to satisfy the applicants. Questions by Members Lochmele-Luniv, Orlova, Ivan Klementyeva, Zemlinska and Cilevičs, Minister of Finance Janis Reiras about the information systems for monitoring the implementation of the Single Health Statistics and Health Service Providers' Development Programme PREDA. The written reply received shall satisfy the applicants. The question of Members Lochmele-Luniv, Orlova, Zemlinsk, Ivan Klementyeva and Ribakov, Minister of Finance Janis Reiras, about the E-Health project. The written reply received shall satisfy the applicants. Regarding Member Lochmele-Luniv, Cilevič, Orlova, Zemlinsk and Ribakov, the Minister for Health Guntis Belevičs “On the Register of Medical Devices LATMED”. The written reply received shall satisfy the applicants. Mr Janis Reiras, Member of the Minister for Finance of Lochmeles-Luniv, Cilevičs, Orlovs, Zemlinsk and Tretjak, on the Register of Medical Devices, LATMED. The written reply received shall satisfy the applicants. As a result, no question-and-answer meeting will take place today at 17.00. Colleagues, other questions have also been received from Members of the Saeima. Members of the Parliaments Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova have received the question “On measures to liberalise the “Latvijas Gas” market and their relevance to the interests of Latvian consumers”. It is passed on to the addressee - the Minister for Economics, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. On the question “On the portal www.scho.lv” of Members of Lochmele-Lunova, Dolgopolova, Tretjak, Adamson and Zemlinsk. It is handed over to Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile for a reply. The agenda for today's sitting is under consideration and we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! As long as the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the Member of the Commission, Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U112	Dear colleagues, the meeting of the National Administration and Municipal Commission will take place not at 10.30, but at 11.00.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U113	Colleagues, I have a statement, too! On these days, Member Gunārs Rusiņš celebrated the 55th anniversary. We warmly welcome him. (Applause) Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U114	Dear colleagues, today you have not registered: Hosam Abu Meri, Aldis Adamovičs, Solvita Āboltiņa, Boris Cilevičs, Lolita Čigāne, Gundars Dauge, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Rihards Kols, Regina Lochmele-Lunova... yes, Alexey Loskutow, Aivars May, Roman Money, Vladimir Nikonov, Veiko Spolitis, Zenta Tretjaka... Zenta is, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-19-PT12-291-U115	Thank you. I'm closing the meeting.
