ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats, and let us begin the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on June 3, this year. Today, we have one issue on our agenda, on which there is no more important issue in Latvia's policy - the Presidential elections. Therefore, I call on everyone to vote for their conscience and listen to the public's opinion. Name Representative of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Vital Orlov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 26 May of this year, the Commission for the Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima received documents of Mārtiņš Bondara, Sergejs Dolgopolova, Raimonds Vējonis and Egils Levita for the evaluation of the President’s post under the Law on Election of the President. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications requested information on compliance of candidates with the norms of the law to the Office for Constitutional Protection, the State Revenue Service, the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption, the Office of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Latvia, the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs and the Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission received and reviewed the information provided by the institutions at its meeting on 28 May, as well as examined the documents of the candidates and acknowledged that the candidates of the President of Latvia Mārtiņš Bondars, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Raimonds Vējonis and Egils Levits comply with the provisions of the Law on Election of the President.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U4	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I would like to ask for your permission to use seven minutes for my speech, so five plus two.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U5	Are there any objections to Members? ( From the medicine: “There! None!’ ) None. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U6	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you on behalf of the Group's Unity. Election of the President of Latvia is one of the most responsible tasks for the future of our country. The coalition parties have nominated two honourable candidates for the post of President of Latvia, Raimonds Vējone and Egils Levita. And the Unity Group will vote in favour of them. Without hiding or playing games, expressing its position honestly and openly. We have consistently stood up for the public election of the President of Latvia, so I want to hope that no one will use the secret vote to say one thing but to do different things. Colleagues, I would like to talk about what the Unity expects from the next President of the State. Today, we elect the President of State, the President, who in the cause of his next work must hold the interests of our country and people above everything - responsible, prudently, based his actions on three important pillars of state and public security - strengthening the external and internal security of the country, promoting economic and financial security and implementing socially inclusive policies. We expect not only beautiful words but also firm positions and decisiveness from the next President of Latvia. During this geopolitically worrying period, the President of Latvia, as the Commander of the National Armed Forces, must stand firmly and firmly on the increase of the defence budget of Latvia to 2 per cent of gross domestic product, without derogating from the commitments and commitments made by our country as an equivalent NATO member. An important task is to increase the composition of the Latvian army and further develop the military infrastructure of the State, not forgetting also the strengthening of the Earthguard, which is not only a hill of our volunteers, a part of the National Armed Forces and a reserve of regular forces, but also an important resource for strengthening patriotism and sense of nationality. Over the last year, the international security environment in the Baltic Sea region has experienced cardinal changes. For a long time, Latvia has been living in informational war, where there is a fight for the minds of Latvian citizens and faith in the future of its country, so the external security of our country is closely linked to how safe and stable we feel internally. In the context of the 21st century phenomenon of hybrid war, we are able to protect our societies from attempts at brainwashing by its hostile forces. Can we put quality, objective, accessible and understandable information in front of this giant machine? Only by strengthening our internal defence capability, our media environment and information space will we be able to maintain the internal stability of the country and mitigate the risks of foreign-inspired provocations. We must also not forget about those services that provide our safety every day tirelessly - our rescuers, police and border guards. Building the capacity and motivation of these services should remain a priority task of the political agenda, and the President of Latvia should be a close ally to the Saeima and the government in addressing these issues. In the light of the bitter crisis of recent years, the President of Latvia has also played an important role in ensuring the stability of public finances and the economy and fostering the cohesion of society. An inclusive social policy is one of the key elements in fostering a sense of community and cohesion. Its task is to reduce social and income inequalities in society, to strengthen social security and stability, so that everyone in our country can feel appreciated. At the same time, we must remember that we must continue to act with particular responsibility and vision on matters relating to the public budget. Populist slogans in dealing with social issues should not be used irresponsiblely as a cover for selfish political interests. Therefore, in situations where political rivalry in the Saeima or government threatens populist and dangerous decisions for the growth of the state, the President of Latvia has an obligation to eliminate these risks in good time, balancing the ambitions of politicians. Colleagues! Today we elect the President of State, the President, who understands his responsibility and is able to address every citizen of our country regardless of his place of residence, education or income level, family and political convictions. For our country, everyone is important, and the task of the President is to unite society and not divide it. That is why the President must be able to invite and address all the political forces represented in the Saeima with equal responsibility at his table, because behind each of them there are voters who are the citizens of our country. Only through dialogue and working together for the well-being of every Latvian citizen can we be both heard and addressed, feel as belonging to our country and it is necessary to and jointly strengthen the values that our ancestors have built upon when establishing our country in 1918. We want to see a stateman not only in words but also in deeds as President of Latvia. Colleagues! We have all made an oath to work for Latvia, so I invite you today to take a responsible decision by electing our President, and at the moment when one of the candidates will have received support from the majority of the Saeima, to respect and support the newly elected President of Latvia. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U7	Thank you. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U8	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear and honourable Members, Please allow us to use seven minutes for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U9	Are there any objections to Members? ( From the medicine: “There! None!’ ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U10	Today I feel especially honored for the opportunity to be here at the Saeima House. Being among those people whom the people of Latvia have entrusted with the choice of the next President of Latvia is a huge privilege. Each of us today has to make one of the most important decisions in our professional and, perhaps, personal life. Today we will choose not only the President for the next four years, but at the same time we will also vote for the vision, for the future of Latvia's state and society. Our task is to elect for the next President of Latvia the person whose ability to fulfill the promises included in the oath we have no doubt. To elect the one with whom we will be proud to enter the centenary of Latvia. The position of the President of Latvia is deeply symbolic; I do not think of the claim that the institution of the President of Latvia only performs a representative function, which has already been heard too often. The most important decisions of the previous Presidents of Latvia have always brought an open story about the country in which we live. The President symbolically brings us together and represents us all - our various beliefs and lives, our great achievements, our brightest ideas and our most ambitious goals, all uniting us together in the whole, which we call our people. I am a Member for the first time, and for the first time today, I will decide with you about the future of Latvia. The awareness of my personal moral responsibility and obligation to give my voice to society is strong only as the best candidate in the country of Latvia. The only option I will be able to live with is the vote on the best. The level of the institution of the President is high. Its prestige and reputation were strongly strengthened by the first President of the independent Republic of Latvia Jānis Čakste, and the future Presidents of Latvia were also clearly aware of the high criteria on the basis of which they are evaluated. When choosing the President, we do not choose a candidate nominated by that party or another party, we choose a leader - one who we see with pride and respect, one who makes us bold and strong. In today's dramatic geopolitical situation, the ability to unite and inspire a nation is more important than ever. We need a stateman – an experienced, intelligent and bright leader, who will always be faithful to those who own the state of Latvia – to the nation. We need a confident and erudite President, a European patriot of Latvia, who is aware of and embodies and shows in every activity the values that are important to all of us - democracy, justice, the rule of law, security. The President, who works and strives for ideal interests of Latvia's state and citizens. Of the four candidates nominated for the post of President of Latvia, Egil Levit has proved his relevance. Egils Levits with his extensive experience in both public administration and international institutions, diplomacy and science are highly appreciated both in Latvia and internationally. Based on even qualifications and experience alone, Egils Levits will be the most logical and appropriate choice for this high position, but his works in favour of Latvia confirm Egils Levits' absolute and unshakable trust in the state of Latvia. Independent, with strong conviction about honouring the highest laws of the country and the responsibilities of the President of Latvia to protect them, with a clear awareness of the problems facing Latvia and its citizens. Egils Levits would be the president who would help to build a better, safer and more cohesive society in Latvia and its future. Today we have to make a serious choice and clearly demonstrate to ourselves and society what kind of policy we will develop and will continue to develop - a cynical policy based on conversations and decisions that have been forged, or a policy based on a vision of a prosperous and sustainable future of Latvia. Every vote cast today is a portrait of a particular Member. The closed vote from these portraits will create one image - the result of the Saeima vote, so every vote cast today will be the face of its owner and the whole Saeima. My vote - and I hope you too - will be a vote of conscience and integrity today. First of all, with the thought of my people and also of myself, I will give my voice as the only and best candidate for the post of President of Latvia, Egil Levit. In this last secret ballot, I hope, I also call on you to vote in favour of Egils Levit's candidacy as President of Latvia, who will make us proud with his intelligence, his experience and his expressed national seed as President.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U11	Thank you. Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, dear colleagues. The President of Latvia is not one of many posts. It is a symbol of the country - just like a flag, like a coat of arms, like our anthem. It's the person we stand up for, whose portrait tells students about our choice. This is our country's main person. A man who embodies the message - which we mean today is Latvia. Dear Member, We honor each other's traditions and politeness - at least in words we honour the Saeima's debate - although real policies often plant distrust, insult, irritation or anger among us. We are different and understand our duty to serve the state of Latvia in different ways. The endless clashes of interest and the fight against everyone make us look for a think tank, a sense of asylum in our political groups and parties. However, I am convinced that there are times when we are all on our own when the terms 'group discipline', 'preliminary political agreement and calculation' become secondary and detailed in the face of the great task. The State of Latvia has entrusted each of us with the choice and opportunity to decide with which President we will meet the centenary of Latvia. We participate in a historical choice, and I believe that we are each ready to stand on the side of the strongest and most powerful candidate. To vote against all candidates, hoping for the next round, this time it would mean playing “Russian roulette”. That would be a confidence in chance. Every vote today must be taken with maximum responsibility. Colleagues! Please reply to each of us honestly: who will be the best candidate to defend their ideals purposefully both in Latvia and internationally? Who dedicated his life to strengthening Latvia's statehood? Which language skills, charism and the rise will make us feel proud of the new generation and the world? Which Latvian citizens believed? Which candidate did not know until recently, but is now greeting his name with applause in different audiences? Different media surveys reveal the same pattern in 90 percent of cases. Do anyone really have any doubt about what the active part of society expects? Experienced skeptics and political observers are already smiling at today's vote, saying: “Strunt about the wishes of society! They will also want to see what they have agreed - even the President!” Trust in the Saeima is disastrously low. That we may receive at least such a question and listen to people is called a miracle in the backstage. It's simple, we don't believe it! People are already ready to be disappointed again: to be disappointed in the whole Saeima, because the vote is hidden and the result will be cooperation between us all. Dear Member, Today you have the opportunity to create a miracle and destroy the cynical belief that the Saeima is intended as a clock gear. Today you have the opportunity to be a Member without an ironic box in this name - the Latvian National Man with a capital letter. I call for the support of Egil Levit. ( A fluctuating from the VL-TB/LNNK fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U14	Hello, honourable Members! First of all, I thank all four candidates for their courage, for a full debate without which communication with the public is not possible. Thank you for your respectful attitude toward each other. Thank you very much also for your patience. The Greens/Farmers Union, with the support of the political group of the part party, nominated Raimonds Vejone for the post of President of Latvia. The long-term successful work of the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Environment and Regional Development, the Minister of Defence as well as the Member of the Saeima and the Head of the Baltic Assembly provides a strong assurance that Raimonds Vējonis is to become the President of the State of Latvia recognised and respected abroad in Raimonds Vējonis’ forces. This candidate has no strange day-to-day public administration in the years of economic and public confidence, when the Minister, as a doctor, was to take painful decisions, but the country is very, very much in need of decisions. And then could not do with beautiful phrases, philosophies of the meaning and sending of the country, and could not do with expressions of compassion and promises. It is the responsibility for the future without the hope of thanksgiving! It's the statemen, step by step, year by year. It already says that one pearl is worth ten, because it has enjoyed humiliation bitterness. To be honest, I also had some doubts about the new Environment Minister Raimonds Vējonis, but in a year's time we called Latvia the second greenest country in the world. Many of the little but friendly members of the Green Party also doubted whether Raimonds Vējonis would manage the party. At present, there are more than 700 members of the Latvian Green Party, seven of them members of the Saeima and two ministers. The appointment of Raimonds Vējonis as the Minister of Defence was called diversification and the beginning of the end of the National Armed Forces, but already soon sociological surveys reported that the Minister of Defence is the most recognised member of the Cabinet of Ministers. Now the people come to the Saeima House to invite Members to listen to their conscience. I am listening, and my conscience says that Raimonds Vējonis has so much Latvian despite and self-esteem, so that he becomes the great President of Latvia and proves to everyone: doubt free! To lead a country, it needs to be known. It is necessary to know the country up to the yeasts - from the pressure of the hand worked by the farm mum and the emptyness of abandoned windows of the house into the hives to the unspeakable eye of the divination bomsy. It is also our Latvia - the laws and paragraphs are unrecorded and indescribable, understanding and changing waiting! And this understanding and change is not found in the high corridors of Brussels or Berlin. All we need is already in our minds and hearts, so for the new President of Latvia, whoever it is, I wish that those who are weary of their feet, their words and their actions, give their faith to themselves, to the merciless ones of peace, to the impatient ones of patience, to the eternal denies of all things, to their own faith and to their own country. And finally, to the new President, I wish the fences not to be built, but to break down and preserve themselves, the most important thing - a simple human being that is understandable to all. Good luck! Especially for you, Raimond Vejone! Thank you. ( THE Unity of the ZZS and the fact that the Group is one of its members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U15	Thank you. The name of Member Nelli Kleinberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U16	Dear colleagues, Members of the Saeima. Today we all have a special day, a special working day. We are going to make an important and historic decision that will affect our country and people for at least the next four years. Today's decision will be evaluated by our voters both in Latvia and abroad, and today's decision will be very important in the history of our country. The Association of the Regions of Latvia has broken old backstage traditions and has nominated Mārtiņš Bondaras as President in January – a patriot of Latvia, a person with the appropriate seed, knowledge and experience. The aim of this step was to encourage the public to discuss in a timely manner what the future President of Latvia should be. We achieved that the other presidential candidates were also equipped with a very high-quality bar. Today we see that we have succeeded in achieving one of our goals and changing the political environment in Latvia. Such an active discussion about who and who should be the President of Latvia has never been in the history of the restored Latvia. At the moment, we also want to achieve our next objective and to get Members to listen to their constituents. According to the public opinion, the candidate for the post of President Mārtiņš Bondars enjoys the greatest support of the people and is worthy to take up this post. Colleagues! I call on you to listen to the opinion of the public, to your conscience and to support Martin Bondar's candidacy as President of the State so that we can once again be proud of our President, proud of our country, our land. I call for the vote on Martin Bondar! ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U17	Thank you. Name to Member Augustis Brigman.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U18	(From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “A you for what?” It's laughter.) Good morning, honourable Members! Colleagues! Today is really a historic moment in the four-year cycle - the President of Latvia is elected. And I think this is a moment for every Member to be aware of his mission: he has been delegated from a nation; the elite of a nation has voted for him, and at the moment it is no more important for him to have the task of going and voting for a candidacy. I absolutely cannot accept the fact that, at this point, someone could be disfellowshipped and do not go to the vote. It is the duty of a Member, it is the task that voters have given him, and it is the right to exercise and to perform that duty every four years. And it is an extremely important responsibility, and it is an extremely important excuse for voters' confidence! Perhaps each of us has made our internal choices - on which to vote, on which to vote and whose candidacy is more acceptable to him. I am delighted that all these four candidacys, which are - both Raimonds Vējonis, Egils Levits, Sergey Dolgopolovs and Mārtiņš Bondars - are, in my view, respectable, honorable candidacys, and I really thank them for this courage to come because, long ago in politics, I have often encountered the fact that respectable people simply refuse to come and agree, so to say, to participate in this election marathon, because they understand this great responsibility, they understand these difficulties that are in front of us - that they will have to look at public attention, perhaps only deal with unpleasant issues. In my opinion, these four people are honorable, respectful, and successful! And the Union of Greens/Farmers will, in any case, respect and support any of these candidates in their future work if he is elected President of Latvia. But, of course, each party has its own favourites, its own people, and the Greens/Farmers' Union has nominated it so Raimonds Vējonis. And why Raimond Vejone? I think Raimonds Vējonis has gone several stages in his life. He has gone through perhaps some kind of loss, a moment of praise, a good result; perhaps he has never been lucky in some place, but he has always followed his path consciously and remains as he is. And I think what position he's been in... I would really like to add that there was some concern: "Well, how will Raimonds get to the office of Minister for Defence?" Because at the beginning, remember, there were all the doubts and concerns of this society... And the result: right now Raimonds is the most popular government minister! I think he's still on his way. If there are things that I think he might not have at the moment, he could still learn. I think that as a person he is purposeful, he goes his way in life, and I think he also has a lot of ideas, his efforts, which the country can do. So he's like a person to me, and he's like a person. There is much talk about whether in this vote, which is hidden, the Union of Greens/Farmers, which consists of various political forces - the Latvian Farmers' Union, the Latvian Green Party, the linguists, the people of the Holys, the Livani political organisation - will be united. I would like to assure you all: we had a very serious conversation this morning, and all these political forces clearly expressed their support for Raimonds Vējonis, and we wish him well, we wish him a victory. On Raimonds Vējone! ( ZZS fraction bellows.) From the medicine’s intermediate call: “Thanks, soothes!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U20	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Indeed, this is a great opportunity for Latvia - the great opportunity for the recovery and restoration, and the people really expect a far-sighted and honest vote from us. We have started to blame one another a little bit with equally great success in political games. What's the game? When do we get into the game? Maybe only when choosing the best that we see as the best candidate to be the President of Latvia... When we change this choice with some game-based choice - then it's at the game. Then it is giving up to the gamers who use our doubts, who use our dedication to intrigues and perhaps blackmails with positions, with government moves. Even so, gamers will be greedy when they play, if the honest go into this game. We may be talking so far that the best is not the best candidate at all. And we don't want to talk so far that Latvia doesn't deserve a respected president, that he is too good and fair, and wise to be president to get into our politics. We're not gonna let down on our choice so low... we are not afraid of a personality on which all other politicians could feel too shallow. Parties are not afraid, however, of the President, who might not be able to do so. And we are not afraid of a personality that might make our politics rise beyond the intrigue that we often condemn, and often not without reason, because the choice of President is, indeed, our own political portrait, which shows our political thinking, our political culture. To this end, I would also like to overcome the insults, the personal insults that we have suffered in this political struggle, the insults of parties, and to rise over them. I am sorry if I have offended or reduced other candidates in some way in support of my candidate. I am sorry to Mr Vējonis, Mr Dolgopolova, Mr Bondara, because my choice has been and will be Egil Levit, but I call on you all to vote, of course, on what you consider to be the most appropriate and best President for Latvia. My choice is Egil Levit, because I see that this is an opportunity for our political thinking, for our political culture to be raised to a new level. This is a chance for Latvia! Thank you. ( VL-TB/LNNK)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U21	Thank you. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U22	Hello, honourable Members! On behalf of the Group, I call for the vote, in our view, on the most honourable and most valuable candidate with the most experience in life - Sergey Dolgopolov. We believe that this is exactly what is most necessary for our society now. Thank you for your attention. ( A PASSENGER’S WORDER)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U23	Thank you. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U24	Dear Bureau! Dear Members, honourable Members, Everything has already been said, but I am worried about one thing in this election, namely that there will be groups in the first order who will not be elected. It is a signal to our society that it does not have to go to the next parliamentary elections either, because it does not like something. Of course, society will not always like anything. If the number of people who take part in the parliamentary elections falls below 50 percent, it is the most direct threat to democracy and therefore to our country. I invite Members to go for their President of State. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U25	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U26	Dear Members! Honourable Members! I am truly pleased that an open debate is taking place in the history of the restored Latvia for the first time. Debate!” ) by the public about the role of the President of Latvia, the qualifications required by the President and his ability to influence the fate of our country. At present, unfortunately, public confidence in the Saeima is low. While visiting various regions of Latvia, I heard clearly that people are interested in the candidates for the post of President of Latvia, both as personalities and as ideas they express. Public confidence cannot be gained on the night before the elections, but rather through timely participation in the debate, meeting people and the Saeima listening to the public's views. I am not afraid to talk to people, defend my opinion and Latvia's interests. That is why, in order to break the established traditions, I agreed to stand as President of Latvia, giving everyone an opportunity to appreciate me, my abilities and my vision of the future of Latvia. Today, I would like to express my sincere thanks to everyone who has supported me, both by meeting in person and by expressing an opinion on my candidacy in various votes. The participatory platform proved clearly that Latvian citizens want to change, want to develop a united country and a president to be proud of. I would also like to thank the other presidential candidates for their courage and for the parties for their support. The best candidate for the post of President of Latvia, for us, for Latvia! ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U27	Thank you. I closed the debate. Colleagues! It is time to start voting with ballot marks. On behalf of the Vote Meters - Member Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U28	Dear colleagues, I think you all know what you need to do now: in front of the name and surname of each candidate for President-in-Office, a cross should be drawn, however, in the appropriate box! - To make all the newsletters useful. I can promise you that the vote counters will work as fast as possible, but yet my prognosis is about that... Experience with voice meters shows that about one and a half hours lasts a single process. At the moment, I am calling on you to come to the door after about 20 minutes, when the ballot paper will be prepared and the room will be ready for the start of the voting procedure. Please take up your jobs with your vote counters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U29	Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U30	Colleagues, I call you to take your seats in the Chamber. On behalf of the Vote Meters - Member Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U31	Minutes of the sitting of Saeima Vote Meters No.8 - on the results of voting by electing the President of Latvia. 3 June 2015, Riga, Saeima House, election sign No.6. In total, 110 electoral marks have been produced. 99 electoral marks have been issued to Members. No damage or alteration. The remaining 11 electoral marks have been deleted. 99 electoral marks have been removed from the ballot box. 93 electoral marks have been recognised as valid. 6 electoral marks have been declared invalid. All candidates have been voted against in 5 ballot papers. The votes cast on the candidates shall be divided as follows: Mārtiņš Bondars - for -7, v - 86; Sergejs Dolgopolovs - for - 23, v - 70; Raimonds Vējonis - for - 34, v - 59; Egils Levits - for - 24, v - 69. According to Section 26 of the Saeima order roll, the President of Latvia has not been elected. I call for the next vote in 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U33	The vote will start when the bell sounds. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U34	On behalf of the Vote Meters - Member Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U35	Minutes of the sitting of Saeima Vote Meters No.9 - on the results of voting by electing the President of Latvia. 3 June 2015, Riga, Saeima House, election sign No 7. In total, 110 electoral marks have been produced. 99 electoral marks have been issued to Members. No damage or alteration. The remaining 11 electoral marks have been deleted. 99 electoral marks have been removed from the ballot box. 96 electoral marks have been recognised as valid. Three electoral marks have been declared invalid. All candidates have been voted against in 6 ballot papers. The votes cast on the candidates were divided as follows: Mārtiņš Bondars - for -7, v - 89; Sergejs Dolgopolovs - for - 24, v - 72; Raimonds Vejonis - for - 34, v - 62; Egils Levits - for - 25, v - 71. According to Section 26 of the Saeima order roll, the President of Latvia has not been elected. Sergey Dolgopolov, Raimonds Vējonis and Egils Levits are to be included in the election drawing No 8. Election signs will be ready in about 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U36	Thank you. Let us therefore begin the third round of the elections. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U37	I call on Members to take their seats in the Chamber. On behalf of the Vote Meters - Member Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U38	Minutes of the sitting of Saeima Vote Meters No.10 - on the results of voting by electing the President of Latvia. 3 June 2015, Riga, Saeima House, election sign No 8. In total, 110 electoral marks have been produced. 99 electoral marks have been issued to Members. No damage or alteration. The remaining 11 electoral marks have been deleted. 98 ballot marks have been removed from the ballot box. 96 electoral marks have been recognised as valid. 2 electoral marks have been declared invalid. All candidates have been voted against in 12 ballot papers. Vējs Dolgopolovs - for - 23, for - 73; Raimonds Vējonis - for - 35, for - 61; Egils Levits - for - 26, for - 70. According to Section 26 of the Saeima order roll, the President of Latvia has not been elected. Electoral drawing No 9 includes Raimonds Vejonis and Egils Levits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U39	Thank you. Members of the Parliament Jānis Ruka, Inese Laizāne, Sergeja Potapakina, Aivars Meija and Jānis Upenieks have received an application to declare a break at the Saeima sitting on 3 June by 15.00. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. That's why the break is announced. So we have to register before the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! After a short time, the name to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U40	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Ivars Freezers... ( From the drug: ‘ Yes! And! Yes!’ ) Where? ( From the drug: “No! ” ) None. Andris Buikis... Yes. Oyars Eriks Kalniņš... Yes. Janine Kursīte... Yes. Janina Kursīte-Pacule... ( From the medicine, ‘ Yes! ’ ) and. Imants Debtor... Not applicable. Arvīd Platoper... Not applicable. Inguna Ryken... Yes. Andris Siliņš... Yes. Inguna Silver... Yes. Victor Valainis... Yes. Dzintar Zakis... Not applicable.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U41	Thank you. Interruption until 3 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U42	Colleagues, I call you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On behalf of the Vote Meters - Member Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U43	Dear colleagues, We've almost achieved our own perfection... But I would also like to remind you that the mark in the ballot paper is a mark only if it is a cross and not a minus. And I invite you to continue the process of the election of the President in 15 minutes. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U44	Colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! On behalf of the Vote Meters - Member Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U45	Minutes of the sitting of Saeima Vote Meters No.11 - on the results of voting by electing the President of Latvia. 3 June 2015, Riga, Saeima House, election sign No. 9. In total, 110 electoral marks have been produced. 99 electoral marks have been issued to Members. No damage or alteration. The remaining 11 electoral marks have been deleted. 99 electoral marks have been removed from the ballot box. 98 electoral marks have been recognised as valid. 1 electoral sign has been declared invalid. All candidates have been voted against in 26 ballot papers. The votes cast on the candidates were divided as follows: Raimonds Vējonis - for - 46, v - 52; Egils Levits - for - 26, v - 72. According to Section 26 of the Saeima order roll, the President of Latvia has not been elected. The election drawing No 10 includes Raimonds Vejonis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U46	Colleagues! I would like to inform you that five Members' applications, signed by Raivis Dzintars, Gaidis Berzins, Einārs Cilinskis, Rihards Kols and Edwin Schnore, have been received, which are asking on the basis of Rule 49 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to interrupt the sitting of the Saeima for 90 minutes. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the medicine: 'Vote!') ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote for a 90-minute break to the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 39, for - 1. Hence, a break for 90 minutes is announced. Before we go on a break, we have to register. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U47	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Andris Buiķis, Kārlis Krēsliņš... Yes, Inese Laizane... Yes, Ingmārs Līdaka... Yes, Yuri Vectyran... Mr. Vectyran... ( From the drug: ‘ Yes.’ ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U48	Thank you. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U49	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! On behalf of the Vote Meters - Member Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U50	Dear colleagues, I almost had... I almost had... Please try a little more! I will invite you to the last vote today in 10 minutes. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U51	On behalf of the Vote Meters - Member Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U52	Dear Members of the Committee. Minutes of the sitting of Saeima Vote Meters No.12 - on the results of voting by electing the President of Latvia. 3 June 2015, Riga, Saeima House, election sign No.10. In total, 110 electoral marks have been produced. 99 electoral marks have been issued to Members. 1 election sign damaged and replaced. The remaining 11 electoral marks have been deleted. 98 ballot marks have been removed from the ballot box. 97 electoral marks have been recognised as valid. 1 electoral sign has been declared invalid. All candidates were voted against in 42 ballot papers. Votes cast by the only candidate Raimonds Vējonis: for - 55, against - 42. In accordance with Article 26 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure Raimonds Vējonis was elected as President of Latvia. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U53	Colleagues, on behalf of the Saeima, I congratulate the newly elected President of Latvia, Raimonds Vējonis! (Applause) Name of the newly elected President of Latvia Raimonds Vejonis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U54	It's time to get involved from the beginning... ( Drink mineral water.) Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues in the Saeima! Yeah, that's a very thrilling moment. I really thank you very much for giving me confidence, and I can once again assure you that I, after all... I will continue the work that I have begun, and I will continue this work as the President of Latvia, strengthening the security of Latvia, promoting the development of the region and the whole country and, of course, traveling the well-being of our people. I would like to say a great deal of thanks to my partners, to say that in this round of presidential candidacy, because I think this was the first such practice in the history of Latvia, when we met in very meaningful debates and discussions in various formats to give our vision of the country's development, what we will do when we enter the office of President of Latvia. Thank you very much for this contentive competition. I want to thank my family too, because without it, it would, of course, be difficult. I think at this point in fact what Jānis Čakste said in 1919 when Latvia had just celebrated one year's anniversary. He said that we could be proud of what we had done. And he saw and concluded that there are grounds to look with satisfaction at the future of Latvia. I think that we also have this basis - look with satisfaction in the future of Latvia. We can be proud and proud of what we have achieved. Therefore, I reaffirm that I will work together to ensure that all of us - the people of Latvia, political parties, the government, the Saeima - are really a team so that the decisions that we will take together are directed towards the development of our country. Honor to serve Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U55	Thank you, Mr. Vējonis. Colleagues must register the presence of Members before closing the Saeima sitting. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U56	Thank you, dear colleagues. You've all registered today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-03-PT12-303-U57	Thank you. Thus, on June 3, 2015, I declare the extraordinary sitting closed.
