ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Colonel is 9.01. Please take your seats. We started the meeting of the Saeima on 12 February 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start to discuss the agenda of the sitting, we need to decide on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. And so the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for changes to the agenda of today's sitting and for it to include a first-reading version of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. In turn, the Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of today’s sitting and to include in it the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to Law “On Judicial Power” apparently in the section “Presidium reports on draft laws submitted”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. And the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for an amendment to the agenda of today's meeting and the inclusion of the draft law on Forest Law, drafted by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, under the presidency report. Do Members have objections? ( Interface from the drug: “No! ” ) Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting to examine the approved agenda and we are starting traditionally with the section "Results of the Bureau". The first item on the agenda in this section is the pending case – draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Saeima member of the Saeima be submitted to all parliamentary commissions and that the Legal Commission be the committee responsible. According to the Rules of Procedure, one Member may speak for, one against. Name to Member Juris Villums. ( J. Villums: “... In principle “for”!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U2	(From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “The Latgale!” ) Good morning! Dear... Dear President, Ladies and gentlemen! Such words, or something like that, usually start our speech from the podium, but this time I would like to address you in a special way. Yes, it is you – Member of the 12th Saeima of the Republic of Latvia! You are the expression of the will of the people of Latvia. You deserve public support. You are determined to carry out your duties in good faith and for the best of your consciousness. Are you really sure that by your actions and actions, you build public trust in the Saeima? This amendment to the law is proposed to build public confidence primarily in you, your decisions and your appointed President of State. Do you really think that Latvia does not deserve the same good or better president as in Lithuania and Estonia? Do you really have to hide behind August or February to make your decision? The argument of the Greens/Family Union against the open vote that a President so elected would feel inadequate that he would not really be able to represent the whole nation, because everyone would know that they voted for him... Aivars, who voted in favour of him, has even called you a well-known Aivars. Yeah, the same Aivars Ozoliņš! Do you know... You really know that all state officials are being elected openly, with the exception of the President of Latvia. The votes of the Members are publicly available – on the Speaker of the Saeima, on the entire Presidium of the Saeima, on the Auditor General, on the members of the Council of the State Audit Office, on the Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission and the members of the Central Electoral Commission, on the Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission and his Deputy, on the President of the Bank of Latvia, his Deputy and the members of the Council of the Bank of Latvia, on the Chief of the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption, the Ombudsman, on the Chairman of the National Electronic Media Council and on the members of this Board, on the Prosecutor General, on the President of the Supreme Court, on the Commander of the National Armed Forces and on the members of the Supreme Education Council. Only the vote on the President of Latvia remains the only secret vote in the Saeima. I'll just remind you if you forget. At the beginning of January, Mr Agešin tried to shame Members of the Saeima by saying that most parties had joined the popularly elected President of State, so there is no point at all in this open vote proposal. May I remind you that Latvia will see the President of Latvia elected by the nations not earlier than 2019 and that this idea will still have to obtain two thirds of the support of the Saeima in all three readings. So don't let yourself confuse your head! I would like to remind you that this draft law already deals with the election of the President of Latvia in 2015, and please don't imagine the unknown, as if you didn't understand! If you think so, it is a real pleasure that last week you did not vote in favour of referring the draft law to the committees, because this issue, for example, would probably be rejected immediately by the Legal Commission with six votes against five. Then, at the first reading of this draft law at the Saeima sitting, the current composition of the Saeima would probably not be able to achieve two thirds of support for it (from the deposit of the Hall. S. Āboltiņa: “The majority of the commission as well... !” ), and as a result, this important issue would be placed without great agitation in an unsupported folder. Now, though, after giving public attention to this issue, you still have the opportunity to correct your error. You have the opportunity to trust your constituents, just as he has once trusted you. Be honest with yourself and your constituents! Don't be afraid because he'll appreciate your real decision! By not voting in favour of the open election of the President of Latvia, you assume responsibility for the possible election of a weak President of Latvia as a result of the secret market of parties. In the closed vote, your constituents will not be able to find out that you are not guilty that you have not supported the average or even weak candidate of the President of Latvia. And then you will have to judge this vote again. If, in this vote, you will not be able to reach the voting button when sitting in your Member's chair, then you will shame yourself, your constituents and become a representative of a new association of political parties.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U3	Mr Viļuma, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U4	I ask you to finish the idea... One sentence. ( INTERPRETATIONS FROM THE GROUP: “Let them finish! Let them finish!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U5	All right! You can complete your sentence.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U6	Thank you. So, if you don't push this button, you'll become a representative of a new political party association called "Green Farmers' Reconciliation from the heart of a hidden president". ( INTERPRETATIONS FROM THE GROUP: “Ui! ” .)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U7	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U8	Dear President, Dear colleagues, A lot of wise words have been made from Mr Viļuma's support for the idea of launching a debate on the open election of the President. But I would like to remind you that, with the same words, three years ago, he voted against the initiative of the nation-elected President of Latvia. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” , Members of the Group’s Association and the ZZS Group are applauding.) And like you once, Mr. Viļuma, at that time. ... And as you once, Mr Viļuma, were at the Zatler Reform Party and were in a coalition with Unity and the National Union, you degraded the idea of an elected president of the people and you did not actually lead it by torpedoing any initiatives that we presented at that time, three years earlier. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurska and V. ( See the box below.) This debate... This debate is at least three years old with regard to the open election of the President of Latvia. And what do we say? Dear colleagues, we have the suggestion that the President of Latvia should wish the people of Latvia. ( From the drug depot. I.Vinķele: “This is another question!” ) In this situation, you only want to achieve a situation that has ever been the case with your election, Mr Viļuma, of the former President, Zatler, as Speaker of the Saeima, and your political ambitions are not related to the support or support of this idea. It is simply a hateful attitude to the initiative of the people's elected president, wishing to achieve today's open election of the next President of Latvia, so that there will not be a coalition of the shame that was once achieved by the Unity by the non-election of Zatler as Speaker of the Saeima. ( From the drug depot. I. Vinķele's intermediates.) And I'll remind you even more of what was then. When there was a secret vote before which the Unity had promised to support Mr Zatler as the Speaker of the Saeima, they had told everyone, after the vote, that, I am sorry, we had put Mr Zatler at all this. And the secret vote, as at the time, provided a vote of conscience to the Members who formed the coalition. What are you having a debate about now? The fact that you, individual parties in this Saeima, want to agree with each other without any kind of debate, without any arguments about the next candidate for Presidential office, and to elect him in an open procedure, placing it in a very really corridor-and-cluary secret with a meaningful agreement to control all the candidates of Presidential President who are among you. ( The grass is covered by a circle of a fraction of the branch and a fraction of the ZZS fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U9	Thank you. One Member has spoken about, one against passing the draft law on to the commissions. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by Member of the Parliament to all parliamentary committees by Mrs. Einars Cilinska, Mr. Rihards Kola, Mr. Janis Dombravas and Ilmars Latkovska, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, against - 28, refrains - 21. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. Move to the following sub-section: ‘On draft laws submitted’. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Safety” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection" presented by Member Āboltiņa, Gaida Berzina, Šadurska, Cilinska, Brigmanis and Putra be referred to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and that it be a commission responsible. As I said, according to the Rules of Procedure, one Member can speak for, one for, one for. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. He has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U10	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, President-in-Office. Can I hear you? Very good! Today, we are looking at the legislative package that is linked to the so-called key principle. This is one of the following draft laws. Unfortunately, for this legislative process it must be said that it reminds us of a story from an anecdotes... ( From the drug, “Tore it again! ”) ) Yes, that the beasts have gathered together and decided to play poker. Late - there is no analogy with subtexts here! - shares cards, looks at the rest of the game and says to everyone... There sits a wolf, a bunny, a fox, other beasts. He shares the cards and says: “Let’s play honestly, without cheating, so that everything is honest! The one who stumbles will get through the beak, through his brown beak!” Some of these same amendments to the law are the same. They're telling... those who drive them tell us that all this is necessary in the public interest that society will benefit from it. Although in fact they already know very well who will benefit from these amendments to the law and on whom they are aimed. And that's why this bill, although it's a single package, is cunningly broken down by different commissions so that no one can understand what will happen. Despite the fact that the amendments to the insolvency law (the head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer. From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “I have to open it! Something is knocking!” )... This draft law has been worked by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, but why is it being diverted... these amendments are passed on to a completely different commission. Only these amendments to this law are left to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, that is, the Consumer Rights Protection Act, which is in fact... These amendments are simply a cover-up to cover those necessary amendments for banks to allow them to re-implement the principle of debt slavery. That's one thing. Go on. Let us see what these listed proposals are then proposing, which are presented to the people as an opportunity for it now to have an option! The first sentence: ‘The creditor and the consumer may agree in the credit agreement that the transfer of collateral to the creditor to repay the credit will suffice.’ Excuse me! If we weren't in the law... If we don't record it here now, then they won't have the chance to make an agreement? You know, I want to tell you that such agreements are already being concluded, there are real credit institutions that work on such conditions and already agree - without all these records that you are now going to record and present as an opportunity that you will create. For example, Citadele bank, yes. Next is the fact that there will be two... that the creditor will have to offer the consumer two draft credit agreements. It further states that the creditor is entitled to apply conditions different from those of the draft credit agreement. What does that mean? There is nowhere here to discuss the principles on which these rules will be based. And actually... if the amendments to the law are passed in such a form, they will in fact not give the consumer any choice. On the contrary! They will provide banks, credit providers with the opportunity to play the game they need. Yeah, look at the situation! We could just as well imagine that every Opel seller should also sell Volkswagen under the same conditions. But you figure out for yourself the conditions under which you will sell them. This is what you are now offering! And what will the Opel trader do? He will say: “OK, there’s no problem! Please come to our salon, there will be both Opel and Volkswagen. Only Opel will be able to buy at the price of the dealer, while Volkswagen will be the price of Lamborghini.” The question is: what will the consumer choose, who will come to choose these conditions? Therefore, my fellow Members, it is obvious that the whole of this initiative is directed not to give the consumer any choice but, in fact, to give the banks a chance once again to implement the principle of debt slavery by forcing the consumer to make an informed choice. I call for such a draft law not to be supported and seen before you vote, in your conscience mirror, how brown your reflection in it is.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U11	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky. He will talk about the referral of the draft law to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U12	Dear colleagues, If the storyteller Mr. Zariņš had been less interested in anecdotal rereading and research of car catalogues, but focused more on specific draft laws, as well as all banking regulations in the Republic of Latvia, it would probably not have been the case. What is the main point of this draft law? That parallel to the principle of the keys put in place, which as the only one would enter into force on 1 March, if we did not amend this law, a second possibility is offered. And the creditor must inform the customer about both options, draw up a payment schedule and allow the creditor to choose freely. What will this choice be? I will give you a simple example. If a mortgage credit is taken for the purchase of real estate, which, for example, costs EUR 40 thousand, then the practice has been put into practice before the key principle of regulatory basis was yet to be incorporated... The previous practice was that the first instalment was about 15 percent, which would amount to 6 thousand euros. In addition to the key principle, the first contribution, as we can see now, has increased to 30 percent and perhaps more in mortgage lending. 30 percent of 40 thousand would be 12 thousand euros. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš intermediates.) So there is a difference - the first deposit of 6 thousand euros or 12 thousand euros. I have received a lot of signals from the new families, who are simply surprised by this situation, that when they go to the bank after credit even with the state support of the first home, they do not qualify because they cannot pay this first contribution. Mr. Zarins said that the creditor has the right to apply different terms to each draft credit agreement... Dear colleagues, this phrase could be written in the law and could not be written in the law either, because in Latvia banks have not yet been nationalised. The Prime Minister has not yet prepared the bank price list and, of course, the banks have these opportunities, and they will always exist while we have free competition in the area of credit institutions. And, of course, the credit institution develops its own rules to balance risks for both the creditor and the creditor. Ladies and gentlemen, when we adopt these amendments to the Consumer Law, we simply turn... Once again we are opening mortgage credit opportunities, which, pending the entry into force of new laws and regulations in the last quarter of last year, unfortunately, have fallen by more than 30 percent in Latvia. So, honourable colleagues, it's our choice whether there is mortgage credit in Latvia or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U13	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection” presented by Member Āboltiņa, Gaida Berzina, Šadurska, Cilinska, Brigmanis and Putra, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 24, for - 6. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Āboltiņa, Gaida Berzina, Šadurska, Cilinska, Brigmanis and Putra's draft law "Amendment to the Law on Corporate Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. One Member can speak for, one against handing over the draft law to the Commission. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. He has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U14	Dear Members of the Bureau. Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, We have an amazing document in front of us. In the third column of the first section of the draft law, if you look at it, the real authors of the draft law are indicated in complete peace, carelessness and self-confidence, without even trying to hide how interests are expressed both by this draft law and by the three other draft laws combined on the agenda, thus making the draft law presented by respected politicians, our fellow Members, rather by their own boys. The common system of these draft laws consists of four draft laws, as we can see. These are: draft law currently under review, as well as draft laws “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax”, “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Rights Protection” and “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency”. In support of this draft law, it is also necessary to support the abolition of the key principle of mortgage lending. After the bank's lobbyists failed to prevent the strengthening of the key rules in the Solvency Law, the whip was activated - no blackmail of the company with the increase in the first payment of mortgage credit and the credit price, the dismantling of the first state program for the purchase of housing. And now the barren legislator is offered a carrot, that is to say, maintaining its political face, giving the consumer, with a clear conscience, the freedom of choice - in particular, limiting his obligation to transfer the pledged property to the creditor or to remain fully responsible for the repayment of the loan. However, anyone who has been in contact with the banking business knows that the banks will find hundreds of ways of deterring customers from the banks at a disadvantage, but it is imposed on them by this law. What below this hypocritical, as if free choice is signed with a light heart and under the pretext of economic necessity, for example, to allow young families to get a first home or to reduce the rent market price... signs or does not sign, but is supported by those Members who voted in favour of the key principle set out in the insolvency law last September 25, at the 11th Saeima. And it shows that they do not understand now, nor did they understand why this principle was introduced in mortgage lending, they did not understand the economic meaning of this principle. And so when we look at this particular draft law, we cannot simply mention this economic meaning, which is actually the basis of the whole system. This does not constitute aid to borrowers in difficulty. The mission of the key principle is to establish regulation rules in the market that oblige banks to lend against the value of the pledged property, while lending against the borrower’s ability to return all its assets to the bank until the last thread. If banks lend for the value of the pledged property, they become commercially risky to grant loans that exceed the value of the pledged property and thus raise prices in the real estate market. Such regulation does not make housing more expensive, but vice versa! - make them more accessible. On the other hand, the proposed two-speed credit facility, which we are now looking at, leaves the opportunity to credit against the borrower's commitment, not against property, and this makes the whole idea of this legislative framework pointless, encourages greed in creditors, preserves and maintains rather than eliminates existing irresponsible mortgage lending practices. And it is not at all the first rescue of the housing programme, as it is said by apologised by this draft law and also by the respected Chair of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. It is the difficulty of the first buyer of a state-spoken dwelling to repay the credit throughout his life. This draft law, as well as the remaining three draft laws, is based on biased assumptions, directed from one – court, very strong economically! - the self-interest of the population and are contrary to the long-term development requirements of the whole society. Such draft laws cannot be supported. Vote 'no', colleagues. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U15	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky. He applied to talk about the handing over of the draft law to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U16	Dear colleagues, Listening to the emotional speech of Mr. Pimenova, I felt like an absurd theatre (I.Zariņš: “How anecdote!” ), because it was all about housing, lending in the country in general and... There was only no word about the substance of the bill. The draft law is very short. And, honourable colleagues, what is this bill about? Where the creditor has agreed in writing with the borrower to reduce or remove the credit obligation, such loan reduction or redemption expenses shall be regarded as operating expenses and shall therefore not be subject to corporate tax. Dear colleagues, think a little bit about what we are voting on in this bill. This is about old loans, this is about loans where the pledge has already been taken over, but the liabilities remain. So this bill gives the bank an additional interest in being more lenient in negotiations with the lender... Creditors who are unable to settle their obligations so that they do not have to pay corporate tax on their deleted liabilities. This is an acceptance of the country to create a more favourable situation for negotiations on the redemption of old credit obligations. Mr. Pimenov, are you... I am not supposed to say "in your sense", I am saying "in your understanding", on which do you call Members to vote? You are invited to vote in favour of banks not having any interest in participating in the redemption of old credit obligations. Dear Mr. Pimenov, get away! ( A certain group of Members applauds its unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U17	One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Tax” submitted by Member Āboltiņa, Gaida Berzina, Šadurska, Cilinska, Brigmanis and Putra to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 23, for - 5. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Āboltiņa, Gaida Berzina, Šadurska, Cilinska, Brigmanis and Putra refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and make it a commission responsible. Do Members have objections? In addition, Member Kārlis Šadurskis has applied to speak about it. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U18	Ladies and gentlemen, it now turns out that I am applying for a speaker to direct each of these draft laws. This is an analogous situation, on the other hand, on the part of the creditor. Thus, if the credit or part of the credit is extinguished, the amount of the repayment of the credit is reduced, so that it could be said that income is not the subject of personal income tax either. Consequently, with these two draft laws - on corporate tax and personal income tax - we are facilitating negotiations on the debt obligation on both sides - both the creditor and the creditor... the reduction of the remaining liabilities of the old debt. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U19	Thank you. ‘ No one has applied to speak, but Members are asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” submitted by Member Āboltiņa, Gaida Berzina, Šadurska, Cilinska, Brigmanis and Putra to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 23, for - 5. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Āboltiņa, Gaida Berzina, Šadurska, Cilinska, Brigmanis and Putra be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš. He has applied to speak against the referral of the draft law to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U20	Dear colleagues, I will perhaps remind you of one message that came up yesterday that in 2014 the profits of banks working in Latvia were EUR 311 million. It happens that Latvian society has been like a dairy cow last year and in all previous years. And all of you know the laws of the market very well, that to a large extent the Latvian State does not regulate either how big the lending policy of commercial banks, how big the interest rates would be, or how much the first deposit would be. There are therefore no arguments of any kind, no connection to the draft law and no key principle, with the fact that banks are forced to increase their first contribution rates and interest rates... there is no obligation. They did this before they put in place the key principle, they did it after that, they can do it tomorrow - without any influence. And now there's a question. Which of you could say that 400 thousand people have left Latvia without having to blame Latvia... Banks working in Latvia... to the fact that people have left the country? Let him just get up! Well, see, no one's getting up. Banks are responsible for the fact that people have left. But let me remind you that today this question is because at the 11th Saeima, you have all supported the incorporation of the key principle into the law. And that was the pre-election promise that you supported at that time. And I can tell you: each of you, each political party, has a percentage point at its expense, supporting the implementation of this idea. In other words, it can be presumed that each fifth of the members of Parliament has been elected for the reason that its political party in the 11th Saeima has supported the introduction of the key principle. At the time, you supported the introduction of this idea. But what happens today? The elections have passed, you have four years ahead of you, and now you suddenly get caught up with the same voters who have supported you, just to throw them. The greatest surprise in all this story really is caused by the National Union. Well, today they have probably bought Zatler's tanks: as hard a position as the National Association on the key principle, in my opinion, none of the political parties had a pre-election position! All the members of the National Alliance stood for this and fell, tried to defend that idea. But today they are among those who have signed the draft law, among those who are lobbying the banks. One of them! Now Gaidis Berzins will come and tell us... I would like to say: "Now, suddenly, we thought that the principle should not be implemented, and that the short deadlines for insolvency proceedings should not be introduced, which we - at least some of you - have already discussed in the 11th Saeima!" What's going on today? You are not even really Members! You are just people who go by the bank! Abstract, regulation, proposals - these are proposals of the Association of Commercial Banks of Latvia, which have been rewritten by name! I'm sorry, though, but do you really not feel ashamed?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You could at least put the commas in between there, so that it would be at least your proposal, not a bank! And today you discredited that idea. In the past you danced banks, today you danced Latvian people. But the banks will not be at peace with this one, they will not match it. Before the next elections, you will once again dance in banks and you will throw them up again. And this idea, this idea, is nothing to do with your inner conviction, which you held before, nor with the truthfulness of your promises and high human values, which you believe should be held by Members of the Saeima. You're just... I am very sorry, I would not want to go to the Mandate, to the Ethics and Application Commission, but I will say this: indeed it is regrettable. This is truly regrettable! ( A FRAUD’S ANSWER.) Depp. D.Zaķis intermediates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U21	Thank you. The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns. He will talk about handing over the draft law to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U22	Honorary Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Mr Elksniņš, of course, as a politician, it is easy and pleasant to talk about bank profits, dairy cows, tanks and everything else. However, I would also call on Mr Elksniņš to reflect on these proposals as a lawyer. ( From the drug depot. A. Elksniņš: “Well stop righteousing!” ) And as the author of the sixth paragraph of Article 147 of the Solvency Law, I have the right to assess what we understand in general with this established key principle and what it means in general. We are really talking a lot about it. So, colleagues, a person, a debtor who wishes to qualify for this process will have to pay a state fee - about 70 euros - to pay a procedural deposit - two minimum monthly wages, to prepare an application for a court, which may sometimes not be that simple, because perhaps one professional must be involved... Further, the court must assess the existence of signs of insolvency proceedings. The Court may reject that application and, consequently, the proceedings shall be terminated. If the court accepts the application, the court shall appoint the administrator. The time limit for submitting the creditor’s application is set below, which can in general be reached for a period of about six months. After this time limit, the auction is announced, and only after the court approves the auction act, the court decides on the cancellation of the remaining obligation. In this case, the court should also assess, inter alia, whether this is the only housing of the debtor. And if it turns out that the debtor owns another property, it will not be possible to apply that provision to the proceedings. As we can see, this process could last about, well, as a minimum of half a year, with a maximum of one year. And the process is far from simple. So that's what we understand with the key principle put in place. Furthermore, I must also point out that this regulation does not apply to transactions previously concluded. So we have already voted in favour of amendments to the Consumer Protection Law, where a similar principle is proposed, which in turn will enable the consumer to choose the extent of liability without applying this insolvency procedure, which, in our view, is very important. As regards the maturity of the commitment. Colleagues can very simply read Article 155 of the Solvency Law and our proposals. So, what are the benefits and what are the losses? Let's take some rules and do it! For example, Article 155 of the Solvency Act contains the second paragraph, which provides for a procedure whereby, if the debtor covers at least 50 per cent of the total liabilities, the maturity of the discharge of liabilities is reduced by half, i.e. by six months. The following shall be the rate of discharge of the debtor from the obligation that, if the debtor covers at least 35 per cent of the total liability, the relevant maturity shall be reduced by 12 months. On the other hand, according to the norm, which states that if the debtor covers at least 20 per cent of the total liabilities, the corresponding maturity of the liabilities will be reduced by 18 months... So actually also in half, which is 18 months. Go on. This proposed framework in Article 155 provides for debt gradation when assessing point 1 of the fourth paragraph of Article 155, respectively, compared to the current framework. So if our offer comes into force, the maturity of such a level of decommitment will fall by half, i.e. by 12 months. Only as regards paragraph 2 of the fourth paragraph of Article 155, the same discharge periods, namely 2 years, will be maintained. In the case of liabilities of more than EUR 150 000, the maturity of the liabilities will also be reduced by 6 months after the end of the bankruptcy procedure. This is the essence of the proposal in the insolvency law. Request to support!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U23	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” tabled by Mr Solvita Āboltiņa, Ms Gaida Berzina, Mr Kārlis Šadurska, Mr Einars Cilinska, Mr Augusta Brigmanis and Mr Edgars Putra, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 23, for - 9. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is the agenda... Yes, the next item on the agenda is related to amendments to the Law “On Municipalities”. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Local Governments” presented by the Member Neighbours, Freeer, Bondara, Šica, Viļuma, Liepiņa, Ruka and Kleinberga be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and that it be established that it is a committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces from the drug: “Yes! ” ) Members object. We therefore need a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Local Government” to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which was submitted by the Member Neimina, Brīvera, Bondara, Šica, Viļuma, Liepāja, Ruka and Kleinberga, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 54, for - 6. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the Legal Commission “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Forest Law presented by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that it be designated as the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Oh! This is important!” ) ‘For unpaid leave granted to Dzintārs Zaķis on 5 February of this year’. Member Dzintars Zaķis has asked the Saeima Bureau to grant him leave on 5 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and informs Members today. Member Roman Mežeckis has also asked him to be granted unpaid leave on 5 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and the Saeima informs Members of this at today's sitting. The next item is the agenda - Newitas Nikiforovas, for unpaid leave, on 12 February this year. Member Nikiforov has asked the Saeima Bureau to grant him unpaid leave on 12 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and the Saeima informs Members of this at today's sitting. The next item is the agenda for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Ilmars Latkovsky from 25 February to 26 February this year. We must vote on this. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Ilmars Latkovsky from 25 February to 26 February! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Member's leave is given to Ilmars Latkovsky. The next item is the agenda for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Hosam Abu Meri on 19 March this year. Please call me! We will be voting to give Mr Hosam Abu Meri unpaid leave on 19 March this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Leave to Member Hosam Abu Meri has been granted. Dear colleagues, Before we start to examine the next section of the agenda on the examination of draft laws, we need to decide on two more possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. According to Section 86 of the Parliamentary roll of order, the Legal Commission asks to include in the agenda of today's sitting the draft law drawn up by this Commission “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” without re-examination in the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Forests” at first reading on the agenda of today’s sitting without re-examination by the responsible committee in accordance with Section 86 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. And so we're starting to look at the section on "Provisions of draft laws". The next item is the draft law amending the Criminal Law, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U24	Dear colleagues, The draft law on the criminal law is under consideration at second reading (No164/Lp12). One proposal has been received, and I think that we will soon be able to support this proposal in substance, but I would like to draw your attention to the issues we discussed yesterday at the Legal Commission meeting. These issues are very important. So there were questions from colleagues, and it is very important that we respond to them and that we keep the relevant information on our verbatim record, because we were talking about three new articles in the Criminal Law. And it is extremely important for prosecutors, judges and other persons to be absolutely clear about the legislator's idea of these rules. The amendment therefore provides for the addition to the law of three articles, which lays down the responsibility for the unlawful participation in the armed conflict, the financing and recruitment of the armed conflict, training and sending to the armed conflict. All three criminal activities are involved. It is important to note that only a person who is aware of his activities and the nature of his activities can be held accountable; that is, he understands that he is involved in the armed conflict in question, he understands that he is providing assistance - either financial support maybe... in cash or grain, but providing support to relevant persons involved in the conflict and taking action to undermine the territorial integrity or political independence of another State, or engaging in recruitment, training and deployment for armed conflict. That's one thing - that's why the person knows it. The second important issue - the person is acting intentionally - is therefore by intent. If a person has no intention, then there is no criminal responsibility either. There is another important nuance. If we look at Article 77 with an index 2, then we can see that the responsibility for financing the armed conflict can be called if the person provides support to the party who carries out the activities in order to undermine the territorial unity of a country, its political independence or it is contrary to Latvia's international obligations. Thus, in principle, in this case, it is the case that aid is given to one party that is criminally liable, but that aid is provided to the other party that is not liable. However, if we look at the previous - that is, Article 77.1 - there is a different approach; that is, if a person is involved in the armed conflict in question, then he can be called to criminal justice, no matter where he decides to fight. Here we do not distinguish between the right side or the wrong side. And it is very important to keep this in mind, because after the first reading, the question was asked: What happens if a Latvian citizen, for example, decides to help the party who is trying to combat the activity of rebels in this case, tries to prevent, say, division of the state or any other criminal activity? That is not acceptable! Thus, in principle, a person can also be held liable in these cases. The next important point is humanitarian action. So our intention is not to foresee responsibility for humanitarian activities, for assistance to civilians, and Latvia has a number of international commitments, first and foremost from the Geneva Conventions concluded in 1949 - then several at least... Well, three conventions can definitely be mentioned. It should be borne in mind that the action carried out by the Red Cross is also to be supported, and there can be no responsibility in these cases either. If there is any other organisation carrying out similar activities, humanitarian activities may not be criminalised. This is a little introduction to the issues we discussed yesterday. But with regard to the proposal, we received one proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is essentially editorial and which proposes that the words "no connection" be replaced by "controversial". What do you mean, "controversial"? In particular, the content has in no way been amended and, in essence, Article 77.1 and Article 77.2 use a similar terminology. The proposal is supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U25	We are opening a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Valeria Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U26	Dear colleagues, The Saeima is preparing today to adopt, at final reading, a series of amendments to the criminal law that concern topical topics that have been discussed in our society recently: illegal participation in armed conflict; financing of armed conflict; recruitment, training and referral to armed conflict. Articles 77.1 and 77.3 give more clarity: our fellow citizens do not need to participate in foreign wars. It is a clear and consistent position of our group. However, by supporting 1. - the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima - to indicate the possible risks covered by Article 77.2. It is not clear what is meant by ‘the indirect collection or transfer of funds or other assets to a party in an armed conflict outside the territory of Latvia’. But civilians can also become involved! For example, if a person sends money or medicine to a relative living in a hot spot or otherwise provides humanitarian assistance, without knowing whether or not he is involved in armed conflict, our fellow citizens will be killed in this case too (The Head of the sitting with a hammer.) will this indirect surrender be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to 10 years? Will such activities also be criminalised? In our view, the provision contained in the article's disposition is very pervasive, unclear and may raise a number of questions and serious doubts as to its application. We believe that this is not too good practice - in a great hurry and urgency to amend the law, applying them to a particular case or sometimes even to a particular person. Article 77.2 is not acceptable as there may be serious problems with the interpretation of this provision in the future. That is why the Group WELCOMES will abstain from the vote on the draft law in general, in support of the 1st motion tabled by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U27	Thank you. The floor will be held for Ms Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U28	Hello, dear colleagues! I will not vote in favour of these amendments either, precisely for the sake of Article 772. Let me explain why. Unfortunately, the Criminal Law, if it is amended, will not have an annex to Mr Judine's speech today, and therefore our courts will not have the spy to interpret this provision of the law. I can justify this with concrete examples from life. My mom’s sister lives in Dzerzinsk, Ukraine, in the district of Donetsk. She's 70 years old, and she's sick. And since they don't pay pensions right now, my mom sends her money. And... ( INTERPRETATION OF THE Group: “Where is the problem? ” ) No, wait, wait! What I'm reading here... You said today: only if a person confesses... I can't imagine my mom at all with her sick heart! - someone asks the question: "Did you really not know or know that your sister, to whom maybe the neighbors... ?” Imagine! It states here: “The direct or indirect collection or transfer of funds or other assets obtained in any way... “ I’m sorry! Without reservation, without the addition of definitions included in the preamble, this Article of the Criminal Law allows the possibility of an anti-humane interpretation. This allows for political influence in court decisions. ( From the drug depot. A.Judina intersaxes.) That's why I'm calling... I would also like to add that all the talk about the fact that the Red Cross is doing all this perfectly... I mean, I mean... For example, as a Member, I try to contact the Red Cross for several days in order to obtain information on the extent to which, and how, the delivery of humanitarian goods to Ukraine is currently ensured. The Red Cross avoids any contact. They don't give a phone number, they don't give a human name... names of those people who do it. ( From the drug depot. A.Judina intersaxes.) I don't know, maybe they just do it because I'm from the opposition. I don't know! But I do not manage to contact any of the representatives of the Red Cross at the moment on the issue of sending humanitarian goods to Ukraine, and so I cannot answer the questions of my constituents either. I therefore ask you not to vote, unfortunately, in favour of the tie in one package... on this package of three amendments and not to accept the urgent legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U29	Thank you. The floor in the debate is for Ms Inese Lībins-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U30	Good morning, dear colleagues! It is really very good that we are debating this very important draft, both externally and internally. And, contrary to the previous speakers, I would like to emphasise that everything that we are talking about here in this legislative debate will be binding on the court later in the interpretation of the specific legal provision; that is to say, how this legislator's will is enshrined in the specific provision, what we are debating here on behalf of both the Commission and Mr Judine, when he says at the sitting of the Legal Commission, as well as what Members have said, who are in favour of the specific proposal of the Legal Bureau. All this is part of the telelogical and historical translation of legal norms. And those who have studied law, understand that by reading the grammatical and literal law no judge will judge. A little more about civilians and humanitarian rights. As a democratic state, Latvia has joined not only the Geneva Convention of 1949, but also a number of other international legal instruments that protect civilians, and my duty, like any member of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, is to really take care of the civilian population. This amendment to the Criminal Law is under no circumstances directed against civilians or against providing assistance to civilians, and this speculation is really not allowed by any court of the Republic of Latvia, however perhaps someone would like to interpret it later. Therefore, colleagues, this proposal, which has been tabled by the Legal Bureau and on which we are currently debating, is merely of a technical nature - a specific wording that Latvia is fulfilling its international obligations regarding civilians and humanitarian law. Ladies and gentlemen, I really call for this draft law to be supported. This draft law has not come in a hurry. It has been discussed in several meetings of the Permanent Working Party on Criminal Law at the Ministry of Justice, it has been discussed in several meetings of the Working Party at the Ministry of the Interior, it has already been started during the 11th Saeima, and several months of work has now been concluded, and I think it has been concluded in the form of a very good draft law. In view of the fact that similar draft laws are being developed throughout the European Union, because the use that is taking place in Ukraine and the use that is taking place in Ukraine to finance terrorist organisations is unfortunately also affecting other European countries, I see that this is really our law... as well as the law created by the presidency, it is a very good basis that can help other countries. We understand what is happening in Ukraine, we support civilians, and we really have a heart with these civilians. And this bill is needed precisely for them. Colleagues, support this proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U31	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U32	Thank you very much to my colleagues for their questions, for the debate. I think they are important, although some seem to have no great point in speaking and they are not binding on anyone. I know very well that very often, too, our debate... What we are talking about here helps judges make the right decisions. And thanks for the questions, because if there is a question, there are also answers, and then you can see and understand better what the legislator thinks. And first of all, I want to repeat... Well, I said at the beginning, but yet again those questions came out... Responsibility will be provided for deliberate actions when a person understands what he does, to whom he sends... When he has that information. What else is important? We are talking about criminal law. That means that the person who received the shipment does not have to prove anything. So if a prosecutor or police officer suspects, they must prove that such an act has been committed and that it is prohibited by criminal law. So you can safely send your items to Ukraine, and you won't... you and other people will not be held criminally liable. Because humanitarian activities are not criminalised. And we have no intention of predicting responsibility. And, of course, we did not go out now, let us say, on the issue that we have to discuss, because we are not talking about the proposal in substance, we are talking about the relevant rules. But... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. A.Barča: “It’s already a disaster that doesn’t talk about the proposal!” ) Because the proposal is grammatical in fact. But, colleagues, I would like to emphasise once again that the relevant rules are important, and I call for support for both the proposal and the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U33	Thank you. The debate is closed. I understand that you have also called on behalf of the Commission to support the draft law? So please call! ( From the room: ‘ What are we voting on? ’) ) Oh, I'm sorry, yes! It's okay. In order to be absolutely clear about what we are voting on, I explained to everyone, in line with the Rules of Procedure, that we are now voting on the first proposal tabled by the Legal Bureau, which the Legal Commission has supported. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported. And then again, on behalf of the Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U34	Following the procedure, I call again...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U35	... Andrey Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U36	Yeah. I call for support for the draft law at final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U37	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law on criminal law in second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - no, for - 18. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, we must decide on another possible amendment to the agenda of today's sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” drawn up by this Commission be placed on the agenda of today’s sittings for consideration at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug: “No! ” ) Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. See the approved agenda for further details. Draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U38	Hello, dear colleagues! Two proposals for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” have been submitted, and both proposals are related to the last page, i.e. transitional provisions on the procedure for entry into force. These proposals have been examined by the Legal Commission. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying the specific... specific action upon entry into force of the law. The Commission was in favour. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U39	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U40	2. - Legal Bureau's proposal on the date of entry into force of the law. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U41	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U42	And so on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U43	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U44	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”. The Commission has received 11 proposals. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Izalnieks related to the implementation of the insolvency proceedings deposit provided for in the insolvency law of a natural person in insolvency proceedings. Partly supported and included 2. - in the Commission's proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U45	... which is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U46	Who is also supported, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U47	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U48	We see, therefore, the third proposal, which is a proposal from the Legal Commission. This is also linked to the introduction of an insolvency deposit. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U49	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U50	4. - the proposal from Member Andrejs Elksniņš, which was not supported by the Commission. Let me explain why. Apparently, Mr. Elksniņš has wanted the court to decide in addition on the reduction of the payment provided for in the plan for the discharge of liabilities, but in the meeting of the committee both representatives of the Ministry of Justice and invited persons and Members indicated... The Legal Bureau also indicated that already now Paragraph 4 of Section 363.28(1) of Civil Procedure Law provides that the court decides on approval of the plan of cancellation of liabilities of a natural person and amendments thereof. And it should be pointed out here that the reduction of payments must undoubtedly be included in the plan... the relevant amendments to the plan that should be submitted to the court and approved. Thus, in fact, this regulation already exists, and the issue is probably about its application, so the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U51	Thank you. But Members are asking for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Elksny's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U52	Colleagues, so 5. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been partly supported and included in 6. - the Commission's proposal, which has been supported. And here it should be pointed out that the Commission also had discussions about what the court would have to say in a court decision terminating bankruptcy proceedings if no creditor had filed his claim... Therefore, what commitments are indicated. And the members of the Commission and the Legal Bureau also pointed out that this was about the liabilities of the creditors, which may in fact be an abstract obligation, rather than a specific obligation, since, first, the court might not know those liabilities, which the debtor had and which the creditor had not in turn submitted, and, second, even if those obligations had been known, the court should be called on, possibly, to a hearing before the court, those creditors as interested parties, which could not in fact be made by way of a special procedure, so that the court could not assess the potential dispute between the creditor and the debtor. This should be done in general terms. The Commission has therefore drawn up proposal 6 which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U53	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U54	7. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U55	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U56	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported. And here I have to say that there was also a question during the committee meeting, and I would like to explain: i.e., whether the request of the State Revenue Service for the payment of taxes is a claim from unauthorised activities. And the Commission's opinion in this case was - no! Claims from unauthorised activities are other types of claims, and in this case the SRS claim for payment of taxes must be applied accordingly according to the procedure established by law. And this claim does not last, as stipulated by Article 73 of the Solvency Law... I am sorry, not long, but very long in accordance with the procedure laid down in Section 73, Paragraph Two of the Solvency Law in case such a claim is not applied for. The Commission has therefore supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U57	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U58	9. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U59	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U60	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been partly supported, is included in proposal 11, which therefore involves supplementing the transitional provisions. The Commission has supported proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U61	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U62	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, please support the third, final reading of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U63	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item - Amendments to the law on the application of educational measures to children, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U64	Highly honored Saeima Presidium! Colleagues! The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs reviewed the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On forced application of educational measures to children””. The draft law provides for the simplification and effectiveness of the procedure for the execution of detention sentences and for the procedure for contesting and appealing decisions taken in the course of the execution of criminal penalties. The Commission has examined this draft law and decided to support it at first reading. I call on the Saeima to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U65	Yeah, thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the application of educational measures to children”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U66	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 2 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U67	April 2. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Competition, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U68	Hello, dear colleagues! So, to your attention, amendments to the Competition Law. These amendments are necessary because there is a new law - the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Retail Practices (for the next we will see the draft Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Retail Practices) and therefore the Law on Competition should also be amended accordingly. Three proposals have been submitted to the committee responsible. The proposal is a proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U69	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U70	Proposal No 2 is also a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U71	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U72	And also, Proposal No 3... No, I am sorry, proposal 3 is the proposal of the committee responsible for the entry into force of the law. So I am calling for this to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U73	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U74	I therefore call for support for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Competition Law".
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U75	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Competition Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U76	March 12th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U77	March 12th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on the prohibition of unfair retail practices, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U78	Thank you. So this will be a new law - the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Retail Practices. The essence and purpose of the law is to sort out the relations between retailers and suppliers so that the large retail networks are restricted to a little bit in terms of this purchasing power. 1. - Līdaka's proposal. Hasn't received any support. And Member Līdaka would also like to say something in the debate if Andris Bērziņš pressed the button...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U79	Let's start a debate. There will be a debate on the name of the Member Ingmars Līdak.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U80	Thank you. So the first thing I want to tell you is that Member Līdaka withdraws this proposal, considering it to be a little premature. Look who I care about! Consequently, this proposal does not require retailers with more than 2 000 employees to work on Sundays and public holidays. This is about the big ones... supermarket monsters because, in my view, a person, a family, a Sunday and a holiday day do not have to spend on endless “travels” on these retail monsters, but it is more valuable for the family to go, say, to look at the Gauja valley, even coming to the Zoo, rather than wandering in supermarkets without meaning. I hope that we will come back to this debate, but at the moment we will think that I have simply referred to this proposal as an early one, but with the idea that we will still consider dealing with such a matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U81	Thank you. The debate is closed. Since the proposal has been withdrawn, it is not even a vote in theory. We shall proceed with proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U82	2. - Member Elksniņš's proposal. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U83	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U84	3. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It has been partly supported, including 4. - the proposal drawn up by the committee responsible, which I ask for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U85	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U86	5. - Member Elksniņš's proposal. This is also supported in an amazing way.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U87	Members have no objections... I am sorry, Members are asking for a vote? However, Members call for a vote on proposal 5. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Elksny's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 3, for - 14. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U88	So six. - Līdaka's proposal. Hasn't received any support. However, it should be noted that, however, problems could arise with the sale of goods with a short selling life if, for example, the share discount could not be applied to goods which were not disposed of at the time of the sale. However, there is still a third reading, so that hopefully there will be some proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U89	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U90	7. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U91	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U92	8 / 8 - Member Elksniņš's proposal. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U93	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U94	9. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U95	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U96	And 10. - The proposal by Armands Krauze, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Supported by including 11. - the proposal drawn up by the committee responsible, which I must ask for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U97	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U98	12. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U99	Let's start a debate. Name in the debate for Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U100	Dear colleagues, I was contacted by the Latvian Traders Association to draw attention to the fact that the fine laid down in the second paragraph of Article 9 may be disproportionate in the case of retailers with a small annual turnover. What are these - retailers with a small or small annual turnover? Besides the two giants Rimi and Maxima, which exist in our retail market, there is also a large set of networks and cooperatives with a turnover of between 30 and 150 million euros per year. And these are the networks “Mego”, “Sun”, “Sky”, “Prisma”, “Beta”, as well as the cooperative “ Elvi”, “Aibe”, “ Lats”, “ Top” and “Vesko”. As if all are named... But there are also traders with an annual turnover of less than 5 million. These shops... less than 5 million turnover per year. These shops are more dependent on market conditions. They can make it easier to make mistakes in trying to adapt to the market. And it is necessary to analyse in more detail the causes of the infringements which they might have committed in order to impose a penalty that is indeed proportionate to the seriousness of the infringement. I would therefore propose that instead of imposing a fine rate, this competence be delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers, which would analyse each group or class of the case and could then lay down rules which would be more precise, rather than discourage our traders from acting on a particular market, but rather motivate them to act more effectively. The situation is even more severe for shops with even less turnover. This burden is even stronger if the turnover is less than EUR 175 000 per year. They are then subject not to the rate - the penalty rate - but to a certain amount, namely EUR 350. In cases where the monthly turnover is about 5 000 euros, they will have to pay a fine of 350 euros, which is actually the income of two working days. This can actually put the store in a very difficult position, and this especially applies to rural shops in the counties, especially in Latgale. For this reason, I think it would be better for the government to produce a concrete document that would perhaps be reasonable for traders who would be more detailed than we would have laid down in law the amount of the fine and the amount of the fine. I call on me to support my proposal by promoting better adaptation in the fields of Latvian national traders to the market, which is gradually getting up after the crisis. I think that this situation will improve and we probably do not need to be severely punished to prevent them from doing so. Please support this proposal - Amendment 12 - and at the same time Amendment 13, which I have just tried to explain to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U101	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U102	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, there is something to add. See, the commission of responsibility debated very long and widely whether all provisions of this law apply to all traders or whether traders should be differentiated: small, medium, large. The debate was very broad, but the Commission was of the opinion that all the provisions of the law in question should apply to all retailers; that is something that I might not agree with personally. That's the number one. Number two. Paragraph 4 of the same Article 9 tells us that the Cabinet of Ministers will develop a procedure for imposing fines, i.e. criteria for determining the amount of fines, mitigating and aggravating circumstances, and so on. At the meeting of the Commission, representatives of the Competition Council were very holy to claim that the penalties would actually be applied fairly, taking into account the real turnover of each retailer and thus the real offence. So, on behalf of the Commission, I have to ask for proposals 12 and 13 not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U103	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 36, for - 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U104	The last one is 14. - the commission responsible...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U105	Proposal 13 now!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U106	Oh, proposal 13, still! Yes, I also call on the Commission not to support proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U107	Yeah. Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 36, for - 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U108	Yeah. And so the last one is the proposal made by the commission responsible for the coming into force of the law. Please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U109	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U110	Therefore, please support the draft law on the prohibition of unfair retail practices at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U111	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Law on Prohibition of Unfair Retail Practices” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U112	Given that the number of proposals is expected to be sufficient, please set the deadline for the submission of proposals on 12 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U113	March 12th. Members have no reservations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the current break, but the Saeima Presidium has received five Members - Šadurska, Āboltiņa, Smiltēna, Abu Meri and Brigmanis - to extend the current break by half an hour, so by 11.30 a.m.. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug: “No! ” ) Members shall not object. So the break will be an hour long - by 11.30 a.m. But before we stop, we have to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! As long as the results of the registration are collected, the name of the notification to Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U114	Honourable members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! I call on you to sit on this break in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's Chamber! Now, in five minutes, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U115	Name for the statement to the Member Gaid Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U116	Members of the Legal Commission, I invite you to a short sitting of the Legal Commission! Let's get in five minutes' time on the premises of the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U117	The word for a statement to Member Roman Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U118	Members of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, 10.35 p.m. will meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U119	Thank you. Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U120	Thank you. Dear Members, currently not registered: Mārtiņš Bondars, Lolita Čigāne, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Ainārs Mežulis, Ināra Mūrniece, Nikita Nikiforovs, Andris Vilks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U121	Thank you. Interruption until 11.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U122	Dear colleagues, the clock is 11.30! ( Interface from the drug: “31! ” ) No more 31, in 4 seconds there will be 31! So, colleagues, the clock is 11 and now 31 minutes. Please, take your seats! We are continuing the meeting of the Saeima on 12 February 2015. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Road Transport Act, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Inesis Boķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U123	Dear Bureau, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U124	Colleagues, please, take your seats! And please keep silent. Respect the speaker. This also applies to Mr Vectyran and Mr Stein! Please, Mr. Bokes!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U125	The Commission has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law on Amendments to the Road Transport Act (document No 448). Nine proposals were submitted in total. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall knock down by means of a hammer.) And they are largely concerned with definitions; one part of the proposals is of this nature. The first proposal, which the Commission did not support, is Mr Agešina's proposal on the occasional carriage of passengers. Well, in principle it's a definition.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U126	Thank you. Let's start a debate. There will be a debate on the name of Member Valeria Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U127	Dear colleagues, I believe that, given the economic situation in the country, it is particularly important to support and develop entrepreneurship, while respecting fair competition in the field of road transport and the interests of passengers. I would therefore like to draw your attention to one particular problem with the definition of occasional passenger services in the context of Article 1(23) of the draft law. In comparison with the current version of the law, the second sentence has disappeared from the first reading of the draft law: ‘The carriage of these services does not lose its status as occasional carriage simply because it takes place at certain intervals’. This provision is in force under the Road Transport Act and fully complies with European Union legislation. We cannot exclude this sentence from the draft law because, in my opinion, this would be contrary to Regulation No.1073/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 on common rules for access to the international road haulage market. The third sentence of Article 5(3) states precisely that occasional services shall not cease to be occasional services solely because they are carried out at certain intervals. In addition, in accordance with Annex 2 to the Regulation, a Member State shall issue a Community authorisation to the operator of commercial passenger transport. The authorisation shall be accompanied by general provisions. The definitions in paragraph 9 of the general regulation are given. It is also stipulated that occasional services do not lose their status as occasional services solely because they are carried out at certain intervals. Paragraph 2 of the general terms of the authorisation provides that the carrier fulfils the conditions laid down in the Community rules on authorisation to pursue the occupation of road passenger transport operator in national and international transport. This means that the definitions of different types of road transport should be the same as those used for international transport. All these provisions are literally contained in the text of the Community licence and such authorisation is granted for commercial passenger transport by coach and bus in all EU countries, including Latvia. In particular, this Regulation applies both to international passenger transport and to domestic commercial passenger transport. The regulation, which applies from 4 December 2011, must be mandatory and complied with literally by Latvia as a Member State of the European Union. I would like to remind you that freedom to provide services is a fundamental principle of the European Union's common transport policy, which requires carriers to have access to the transport market. Moreover, it is the right of every person to move freely within their own country. I believe that the Saeima must protect the interests of passengers and not the interests of bus and coach parks. I therefore call for support for proposal 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U128	Thank you. There will be a debate on the name of the Member Ingmars Līdak.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U129	Dear colleagues, In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, a very detailed, very precise and detailed analysis of the existence or absence of contradictions with the regulation mentioned by Mr Agešin concerned was received on this point. The Saeima's Legal Office did not see any contradiction, and I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected. All the more so, I call for this proposal from Mr Agešin to be rejected because I see a simple contradiction in his text. If we are talking about occasional passenger services, then we are talking about occasional services. Go on. So the irregular... the carriage does not lose its status as occasional carriage solely because it takes place at specified intervals. I was once taught at school that carrying out some activity at certain intervals is a regular activity. How can occasional services be carried out on a regular basis? Then these are regular carriages! I think that we will also respect the Latvian language and reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U130	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U131	I call on you to support... do not support this proposal. The Commission voted against. Does Mr. Vectyran have something to say about the procedure? Mr. Vectyran, you pressed the button! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. J.Urbanovich: “Yet!” ) Yes, I understand that there is nothing to say. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Ageshina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 29, for - 21, for - 29, for - 21. The proposal is not supported. Proposals 2 and 3 can be seen to some extent together. 2. is a proposal from the Ministry of Transport, and here it would be advisable to clarify the editorial version, which has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U132	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Valeria Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U133	Dear colleagues, On proposal 2, I would like to point out that if we support this proposal and the draft law as a whole, then serious problems with the interpretation of this provision may arise in the future. For example, it is not clear what paragraph 23 of Article 1 is meant by the words ‘functionally serving the same passengers’. It is not clear how occasional carriers will find out whether they are serving the same passengers functionally. I think that even in theory it will not be possible to establish whether occasional carriers serve the same passengers as bus and/or coach parks in the context of regular services. This definition is so widely interpreted that it allows you to automatically consider as a large bus fleet customer absolutely any person. I believe that the concept of "customers of regular carriers" can only apply to passengers waiting on a bus station or at a public transport stop. I am sure that the Saeima should not create dead standards that will never work. That is why I am calling for the proposed text to be rejected. In my opinion, the actual aim of this proposal is to strengthen monopoly rights for scheduled transport operators, i.e. bus parks receiving public subsidies even on profitable routes, and to exclude occasional transport operators or those carrying groups of passengers, for example, between Latvian cities. The persistent attempts to amend the Road Transport Law for several years, contrary to the interests of passengers and the will of majority members of the Saeima, may prove only one of the shareholders of individual bus parks to eliminate their competitors - the occasional carriers. I call on the Saeima to vote against motion 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U134	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Ingmars Līdak.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U135	Dear colleagues, Mr Agešina's concerns are certainly justified, but I would remind you that, by amending this law, we will instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which will then also regulate the area of occasional transport. In the road transport sector practically this is the only field not regulated by certain regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. These regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will become, and it is decided in the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy that these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers or, more precisely, their drafts will be sent to the Commission before the deadline for submitting proposals, and Members, including Mr Agešina, will be able to get acquainted with the plans of the Ministry of Transport regarding regulation of the occasional transport sector. I therefore call on you, however, to support this proposal from the Ministry of Transport and to go further.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U136	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U137	So on behalf of the Commission, I would call for support to be given to the joint proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Transport and the Legal Bureau, that is, proposals 2 and 3... This version.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U138	Yeah. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport Karina Korna's editorial proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's not 29, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U139	So the fourth proposal, which was not supported by the Commission, was...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U140	Proposal 3 you have missed!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U141	Together, we... Yes, Proposal No 3... can't, yeah? So, Proposal No 3... This is partly supported by proposal 2. Well, for...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U142	Members shall not object. We have just voted on this, but we simply have to report on all the proposals in a row at the sitting. We are going on with Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U143	May I be about 4, right? The proposal concerns the regular carriage of passengers. It has been tabled by Liepiņš, but it did not receive support from the Commission. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U144	Members call for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Daina Liepiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 44, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U145	Proposal 5 is a proposal submitted by Corna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, and received support within the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U146	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U147	6. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. The Commission considered that it actually narrowed the delegation that is currently in place and therefore it was not supported. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U148	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Liepini's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 47, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U149	7. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There was a whole package... This is more about taxi transport, but the Commission believes that one proposal should be left to be discussed here at second reading. But the evaluation by the panel concluded that we cannot prepare or discuss all of this for the third reading, so three months will be given, because there are problems with taxis. The members of their commission are, in principle, everyone! - admitted, and in three months, the industry, together with the Ministry and interested organisations and Members, will have separate proposals on taxis, but in this case the Commission decided not to support this 7th proposal - Daiņa Liepiņš' proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U150	Thank you. Members are asking for a vote, however. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Daina Liepiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 46, refraining - 5. The proposal is not supported. But before we go on, I really don't understand... Does Member Boki want to debate? Has the button been registered or has accidentally been forced?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U151	No, I'll hit it by accident!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U152	Thank you. We shall proceed with proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U153	Foreign car... ( Laughs.) Depp. J.Urbanovich: “Yet!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U154	We shall proceed with proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U155	So, Proposal 8. This is a proposal from Member Agešin and Member Liepiņš (from the dep. J.Urbanovich: “We support!” ), which was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U156	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Valeria Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U157	Ladies and gentlemen, another problem is related to Article 3.4.1 of the draft law. The version adopted at first reading provides that the procedure for occasional domestic passenger services shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is a matter of concern that the government, by adopting the regulations drawn up by the Ministry of Transport on the arrangements for occasional services, could make it possible that this service, without the information of the Saeima Members, would simply be destroyed. This comes from the Cabinet of Ministers' Regulations project already now, which I have met. And I have every reason to fear that once again a way has been invented to legally steal the business created for the years of occasional passenger carriers. However, this is contrary to the interests of passengers. I therefore call for the vote on proposal 8 and the exclusion of Article 2 of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U158	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U159	The Commission did not support this proposal, so that I too call for it not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U160	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Valeria Agešina and Member Daina Liepiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 46, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U161	However, the Commission supported editorial clarifications and supported all proposals, including 9. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U162	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The editorial proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U163	Yes, so I am calling for the vote on the draft law as a whole at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U164	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Road Transport Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 27, for - 1. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U165	Proposals for a third reading must be submitted by 12 March 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U166	March 12th. Members shall not object. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue to look at the agenda of the approved sitting, we must decide on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. The Legal Commission is asking to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include in it the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Insolvency at first reading. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “Vote!” ) Members request a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the amendment of the agenda of today's sitting to include the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Solvency Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 26, for - 6. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission also asks to change the agenda of today's meeting and to include a first-reading discussion of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Corporate Tax”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking to make another change to the agenda of today's meeting and to include the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Parliamentary Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for an amendment to the agenda of today's sitting and for it to be included in the first reading of the draft law on the Protection of Consumer Rights. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “There is! Vote!” ) Members request a vote. Please call me! We will vote on amendments to the agenda of today's sitting, including the first-reading of the draft law on consumer protection law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 24, for - 7. The agenda has been amended. Dear colleagues, We shall continue to examine the agreed agenda. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Law. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U167	Hello! Dear colleagues, First of all, your attention is to the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” with registration number 151/Lp12, which is submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Having evaluated this draft law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers in both the sub- commission and the Legal Commission, there were many discussions, because this draft law contains in essence two large blocks. One block (and they have more than 20 articles) relates to the qualification of the harmful consequences of the crime, that is, on a considerable amount of content... to put a particular article in a more correct way... in the case of specific items in the dispositions. And there was no big discussion about that. It was understood that it could be discussed at second and third readings. However, the important discussions were about another block of this project, that is, about the forms of guilt. In fact, it is about the form of shared guilt - about the intention and neglect: who at what point is... how to assess the common offence. This is not only related to this law, but also to other laws, where certain persons are denied access to employment in connection with the commission of an intentional criminal offence. And this assessment, which was actually a dispute between theoreticians and scientists in the commissions, led to the fact that the Legal Commission did not support this project... decided not to support the draft as a whole, but to propose my own, as an alternative, draft law "Amendments to the Criminal Law", which I will also call for to be put to the vote later. Since the first is the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law”, with registration number 151/Lp12, and the decision of the Legal Commission was not to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U168	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” (registration No. 151/Lp12) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 2, against - 84, refraining from - 1. Draft act at first reading was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U170	And continue with the alternative.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U171	The Legal Commission proposes, as an alternative to the newly rejected draft law, its draft law "Amendments to the Criminal Law", which incorporates all the articles that the Criminal Law needs to amend. And there was no big discussion here. The call by the Legal Commission is to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U172	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft alternative law “Amendments to Criminal Law” (registration No. 187/Lp12) at first reading drafted by the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U173	The Commission is asking for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals on 27 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U174	February 27th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U175	This draft law is a draft law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers and it is related to the specified content of the qualification of harmful consequences of the criminal offence, and it is in essence also related to previously supported, as they are interrelated draft laws. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U176	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U177	I call for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set on 27 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U178	February 27th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U179	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”. The panel received 46 proposals for a second reading. So 1 is the proposal of J.Iesalnieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, who in the Civil Procedure Law provides for the introduction of a regulation establishing the duty of truth expression. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U180	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U181	Two more. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U182	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U183	3. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It concerns the transfer of a case to another court for the purpose of the faster examination of the case in question. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U184	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U185	4. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U186	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U187	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. There shall be responsibility for showing disrespect against a court or for the enforcement and use of unfair rights and obligations. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U188	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U189	6. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U190	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U191	7. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It provides that an unsigned application shall be deemed not to have been lodged and shall be returned to the applicant. This is, in our view, a very important proposal and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U192	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U193	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U194	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U195	9. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice of a technical nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U196	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U197	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U198	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U199	Also 11. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U200	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U201	Technically available 12. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U202	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U203	13. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which also provides that an unsigned application shall be deemed not to have been filed and shall be returned to the applicant. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U204	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U205	Fourteen. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U206	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U207	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice that has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U208	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U209	Also 16. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U210	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U211	17. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been partly supported and included in proposal 18, which in turn is a proposal from the Legal Commission which has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U212	Members have no objections to Amendments 17 and 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U213	Thank you. 19. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U214	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U215	20. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, who has not received support. So there was a discussion about the publication of information relating to limitations on the individual's capacity. In the absence of an alternative offer at the moment, the majority of Members decided that the current procedure should be abandoned, i.e. the publication of this information in the Official Journal of Latvia. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U216	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U217	A similar nature is the 21st proposal, which comes from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, and their commission did not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U218	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U219	22. - The committee supported the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U220	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U221	Also 23. - The committee supported the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U222	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U223	24. - The committee supported the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U224	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U225	And 25. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice - supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U226	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U227	Also 26. - The committee supported the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U228	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U229	27. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which envisages... extend the grounds for non-acceptance of the ancillary complaint and this is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U230	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U231	28. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, who has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U233	29. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U234	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U235	30. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U236	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U237	31. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U238	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U239	32. There is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, who has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U240	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U241	33. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U242	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U243	Also 34. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U244	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U245	35, on the other hand, is a editorial proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has not received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U246	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U247	36. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U248	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U249	37 is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U250	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U251	38. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U252	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U253	Also 39. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U254	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U255	There's also 40. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice - the Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U256	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U257	41 is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U258	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U259	42. The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U260	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U261	43. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U262	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U263	And 44 is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U264	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U265	45. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which introduces a new procedural institute, namely, adapting the rights and obligations of foreign courts to implement them in Latvia. So here are the cases where the Latvian regulatory framework does not provide for the relevant procedure, while the foreign decision in Latvia is enforceable. These decisions should therefore be adapted to their implementation in Latvia in these cases. So the 45th proposal has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U266	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U267	46. is a proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which relates to transitional provisions and entry into force. Has not received any support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U268	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U269	We have examined all the proposals. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U270	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -67, for -no, for -16. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U271	The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U272	March 6th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, first reading. The Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U273	(From the drug depot. S. Āboltiņa: “You will now be able to talk!” ) Thank you. Mr. Many! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Draft Law on Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act was discussed at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. The draft law was designed with the aim of improving the regulation of the said law on the activities of the fiscal representative in Latvia and in accordance with the proposals of the Ministry of Transport to improve the competitiveness of the transport and logistics sector, which were discussed at the end of August, reducing the negative impact of Russian economic sanctions. The Commission has examined the draft law in question and is asking for urgent action to be taken.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U274	Yeah, thank you. Under the Rules of Procedure, we must first vote on the urgent nature of the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U275	On behalf of the Commission, please adopt the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U276	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U277	The Commission is asking for a deadline for the submission of proposals on 13 February this year. And the review date - February 19th this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U278	So the deadline for tabling proposals - 13 February, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 19 February. Members shall not object. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U279	Dear colleagues, very recently in this Parliament there was a vote on judges - on the transfer of judges of the Supreme Court to the Riga Regional Court, which we all did not support in a collegiate manner. In the legal commission, when listening to these judges, the decision was taken, which was also reported by Mr Agešina from this tribunal, but the misunderstanding was caused by the way in which it is interpreted in public space that the legislator has not clearly expressed his will and that in the reformed Supreme Court two vacancies are left in the Department of Criminal Cases of the Supreme Court, while three judges remain outside of time, and that exactly the explanation of why it is done is not, because the legislator sees that it has not formulated his will precisely. The Commission on Legal Affairs and the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy met again to decide on this issue - to clarify your will, if so, prove to be incomprehensible to someone. And all the more because this draft law contains norms that will apply to 31 December 2016, when the Chamber of Civil Cases will be reorganized in accordance with the amendments already adopted by the previous Saeima. So again there will be a question about who from judges can or will not remain in the Department of Civil Cases. And it's already clear that it's not... And I very much hope that, following these amendments to the law, we will no longer face a strange situation in which well-functioning judges - long-standing well-working judges! - which their Qualification Board has recognized as suitable for this work... who have received sufficiently good feedback from both the students to whom they are giving lectures and from other members of the public, will suddenly prove to be invalid and unnecessary, but vacancies will be left in the judicial departments. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the Supreme Court was asked to develop amendments that would clarify the legislator's will that, when reorganising the Chambers of the Supreme Court and creating additional places for the new load next to the... In the departments concerned, those vacancies are first filled and only then there is an opportunity to decide on those judges who, as a result of that reorganisation, must continue to work in another court. Therefore, these amendments have been developed by the Ministry of Justice, agreed with the Supreme Court, supported by the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy and supported by the Legal Commission as well. And I also ask my colleagues to support these amendments at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U280	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U281	So the deadline for submitting proposals is five days - on 17 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U282	February 17th. Members shall not object. The next item is the Amendment to the Forest Law, first reading. The Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U283	Dear colleagues, I will remind myself of the recent case of a farmer who had been felled in the agricultural land, such as the press, who wanted to be severely punished. This situation led to an amendment to the Forest Law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy so that farmers could return land registered as agricultural land to the normal agricultural market without waste paper spending, and therefore there will also be a regime for felling outside of forest land in this country, in line with this amendment to the Forest Law. And that means that this land will be easily re-entered in the agricultural chain. The commission responsible requests that this draft law be declared urgent and that it be approved at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U284	Thank you. First of all, we must vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Forest Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U285	Please confirm at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U286	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Forest Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U287	Dear Saeima! I got a big request. Given that this draft law was also fully agreed with the Legal Office of the Saeima and it is not expected that there could be any editorial or other proposals, I have a very great request to confirm it at second, final, reading, because, in fact, the previous law... The amendments to the law have long entered into force and already there is such a known conflict with real life. So I ask you to confirm it at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U288	Are Members against the fact that we are also voting on the draft law at second reading? Don't mind. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Forest Law” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the law on the circulation of alcoholic beverages, first reading. The Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U289	Thank you for your consensus in support of the previous draft law. Therefore, of course, I hope that you will also support the amendments to the legislation on the circulation of alcoholic beverages with the same unanimity. Look at the situation! The situation is that we have confirmed in the previous Saeima... to put it more correctly, allowing domestic producers to produce beer, wine, chakovka and also to sell it in limited quantities. This is about relatively small quantities, which have no impact on the alcohol market, but contribute to the development of rural tourism. However, the situation is as follows: Soon thereafter, it was decided that a permanent video surveillance system and data storage should be set up at all alcohol outlets and that the entire data medium should be registered with the State Data Inspectorate. And so, of course, that one wine maker came up with a plug, because then the cost of one litre of self-made wine sold is quite high, and that whole business becomes absolutely, absolutely unfavorable. So we have such a request. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared an amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks, which would allow these domestic producers, which is about... for this moment there are some 40 small producers of home wines and some 20 producers of beer... Accordingly, to allow those domestic producers to sell alcoholic beverages without permanent video surveillance in the places where that activity is carried out. ( From the drug depot. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ) And please, of course, also acknowledge this draft law as urgent, because the tourist season comes with a large ion on top.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U290	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U291	Please approve the draft law at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U292	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U293	The commission responsible will wait until February 19 and would recommend a review on March 5, as it will be shortly before March 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U294	So the deadline for submitting proposals - February 19, the date of the second reading - March 5. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the insolvency law, first reading. The Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U295	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! The Commission has therefore examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the insolvency law’ and is asking for the urgent nature of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U296	Please call me! Yes, honourable colleagues, if we have already begun the vote (Dep. I.Zariņš is late to apply for a debate.) It is therefore not possible to discuss the urgency or urgency of the debate. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “It’s too late! Too late!’ ) So let us vote in favour of declaring the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 47, for - 24, for - 7. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U297	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U298	Let's start a debate. Name in the debate for Member Ivars Zarins... Do you not want to debate any more? Now Alexander Kirštein has also applied to the debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U299	Dear... Honorable Bureau! Honourable Members! In support of this first reading, I think that for the second reading a few things need to be considered, which I want to say here not only about this draft law, but also about the whole of this package on insolvency. And the first question: what will this change? We see as though two options: one is, therefore, a choice to freely put down the keys, and the other one - to stay in order. But I am, in fact, concerned that there will be two unequal proposals obviously. So one is about 10 percent to be the first deposit, the other is about 30 or 40. And it was said here that we cannot regulate commercial banks. Consequently, only one principle will in fact remain. So we're back to the old order. It may be that any proposals will be put forward for the second reading... I don't know. Then there's the next question: why do we... and will it change anything in lending? For the President of the Bank of Latvia also claims that huge lending will begin, although in fact yesterday we met and saw... We met with the FCTC and saw that lending had decreased very strongly already in the fourth quarter of last year. So whether people will be able to repay their loans will not be so much, I think it depends on these banking principles, but it will depend on whether they will lose their jobs or not. And then there's the next question. Do we submit to bank blackmail or do we not? If banks, but not all, permissions to declare that they will immediately raise their credit rates by 20-30 percent (from the drug depot. E.Smilten intermediates.) Then the first question is: why do municipalities not declare that they withdraw their accounts from these banks?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U300	Dear colleagues, but we talked about the insolvency law, not about raising bank credits! Well, definitely, please stick to the bill!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U301	Insolvent... Yeah, they're all connected together... And I think about the insolvent that... ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “It’s all connected!” ) Yes, they are linked. And so I think that, at this reading, at first reading, we will, of course, support it, yes. But... ( From the drug: “We need the second... “ Yes, the second one we will look at. But the question remains. Yes, why, let's say, Citadele bank, which has provided guarantees to ALTUM... They have no problem, let's say, not with this insolvency... We know that 1800 applications have been submitted and they have already granted the first credit depending on the number of children. So... I will read to you: “If there are three children, then 5 percent of the first contribution, if there are one child, 15 percent.” ( Milestones.) Thus, obviously the problem is not in insolvency but aid granted by the State. And last year, the Ministry of Economics decided on 332 thousand aid, now it has been increased to 635 thousand, and the head of the ALTUM bank has announced that they could support some 600... increase this support to 600 families. Then the next question is: would it not be better to increase this aid to 6 million rather than 600 thousand? In my opinion, this would be much more important and meaningful than returning to old order, let us say. So, I think, we still have to look at the second vote, but the first reading is, of course, in favour of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U302	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U303	Honourable Members! I must apologise to Mr Šadurskis and the present Members of the Saeima for expressing my position against the draft law on corporate income tax this morning on the introduction of the new mortgage credit facility, but mistakenly called for a vote against the draft law on corporate income tax and, consequently, the draft law on corporate income tax...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U304	But, Mr. Pimenova, we are talking about amendments to the insolvency law!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U305	... I also deceived Members. Partially... because I keep my argument for maintaining the existing mortgage lending practice at the same time as applying the key principle, because it is this...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U306	But, Mr Pimenova, I recall once again that the roll of order of the Saeima presupposes that at first reading we are talking about the draft law as a whole. We are currently talking about the draft law on amendments to the insolvency law. You are currently talking about the motives for voting in the previous vote, and I would nevertheless ask for respect for myself and others, and the rules on which we are all working! Nothing personal, but yet, let's be right! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “This is the introduction!” , dep. J.Urbanovich: “It was a preamble!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U307	Please forgive me, Mr President. Indeed, it was more about the motivation of my speech, but I asked to give me the floor directly at first reading, looking at the amendments to the insolvency law, which I am continuing on. I would like to remind you that the exclusion of the key principle laid down from the law, in my view, is a very gross error...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U308	I'm sorry again! The selected keys are viewed in the Consumer Rights Protection Law. The insolvency law provides for the deadlines within which insolvency issues are resolved. Well, colleagues! ( The Hall is an intersacred house.) From the drug depot. A.Elksniņš: “There is also! It's linked!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U309	There is also the fact that the sixth paragraph of Article 147 is excluded from the law. Right? I would therefore like to justify why I have opposed the exclusion of this provision. What's wrong? What am I doing wrong now, Honorable Leader? In my opinion, removing this rule from the bill... from the law... from the law in force is a gross error, it is a step back! This is a loss of time, because early or late this norm will return to our legislation. Many of our colleagues... I'd like to maybe just remind you... and also the highly respected Member Gundars Dauge, whom I really respect, was not a Member in the 11th Saeima when we adopted this norm and introduced it into this law. Consequently, I believe that the discussion on this specific action by the previous Saeima is very important. I would like to remind you that the keys placed mean more than just the support of the debtor. This legal framework radically changes the rules of conduct in the real estate market and reveals a new era of mortgage lending. This ensures the necessary and sufficient level of liability of the lending banks by encouraging them to credit on the basis of the real value of the pledge, rather than encouraging borrowing for housing at prices that have already been hit by disproportionately high credit on the market. In order to avoid such a phenomenon, it was also introduced. And so, apart from this rule of law now, we make a serious mistake. The mechanism of operation of the regulator, which we then introduced and which is still in force in the law, is very simple: if the market enters into force the terms under which the debtor’s obligations to the creditor are extinguished after the act of sale of the mortgaged property are approved, then the bank will most likely no longer grant a loan in excess of the value of the mortgaged apartment, otherwise the bank may easily lose the part of the loan for which the loan exceeds the pledge. In such a situation, the keys put in place are a security valve that will not allow real estate prices to exceed the real price, as they will force banks with more responsibility to issue loans. And after all, setting the market price for real estate is an important function of banks in the economy, their market mission. I say once again: apart from this rule of law, we make this law weaker! This provision reduces the interest of banks in placing funds on the housing market, which they themselves heat up, and strongly motivates them to look for opportunities for lending to the real economy. It is clear that with the keys that we can easily throw out of the law, the door to the banks is closed to easy income. It is clear that attracting and seizing mortgage borrowers is incomparably easier than going into company business plans, controlling their research and analysing their credit history, which consists of corporate lending everyday. First, which the Association of Commercial Banks of Latvia promised: if the amendments were introduced, the mortgage rates will rise from 10 to 50 percent, but if so, the rates in the United States would be much higher than in European countries. But they're lower. Also, the advance payments, which are different for different categories of creditors, are not high in the United States. Critique quaintesence is available in a letter received by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission last January from the Association of Commercial Banks of Latvia, which addressed the Chairman of the Saeima Presidium. This letter was signed by 17 commercial bank leaders calling on the Saeima to review this draft law, which we are actually doing now to prevent... as they called for - in order to eliminate the negative impact of the amendments on the competitiveness of the Latvian national economy. But it's a bluff, ladies and gentlemen! If lending is proportionate to the value of the pledged property, the price will fall, so the borrower will need less than it is today to buy the same housing, and mortgage loans will indeed be available and can be more easily repaid. Indeed, the rights of the creditor will be restricted. The economy of many European countries - and also Latvia in particular - collapsed during the crisis precisely because of unlimited, intrusive lending and the limited legal capacity of borrowers to extinguish their debts. In Latvia, this led to greater emigration and a reduction in the number of people who want to start their business because they were forced to pay excessive debts rather than invest in small business. The inclusion of the key principle in the law led banks to be more careful and to refrain in future from granting early loans because it would be difficult to recover them later. And what else did the Association of Commercial Banks of Latvia warn us? The idea discussed in the Saeima - then discussed! - to apply the provisions of this amendment to the insolvency law to contracts concluded before the possible adoption of these amendments, thereby further undermining investor confidence in the Latvian legal environment. For the time being, the Association of Commercial Banks of Latvia considered foreign banks, which are also responsible for the burst of the bubble in 2008 and the subsequent crah. If those banks that are looking for easy money from transactions in the real estate market leave Latvia to go! Those banks that remain here and will be ready to credit our business will receive, as a reward, an increase in consumer purchasing power and business activity. And we need such investments as air. In order to establish such a climate in our country in the credit market, we need to maintain the established key principle in the insolvency law. I therefore call for this particular draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U310	Thank you to Member Pimenov. And I have to apologize: the sixth paragraph of Article 147, which we intend to exclude, really concerns the keys that have been set. Because some of my remarks were not correct. Thank you. The floor will be discussed for Member Karl Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U311	(From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Let’s put down the keys and go away!” ) Dear colleagues! On this particular draft law. Amendments shall determine the amount of the debtor’s obligations and the time limits for their redemption. So, honourable colleagues, if the amount of outstanding credit obligations is up to EUR 30 000, then paying one third of the income, but not less than one third of the minimum wage, these obligations are extinguished within one year. Let's count a little! The practice shows that, in such cases, income does not, in most cases, exceed the minimum wage. So if we take a third of the minimum wage, it is 120 euros per month. So, in one year's time, 1440 euros are paid; this is less than 5 percent in relation to the amount of outstanding liabilities (if it is a maximum of 30 thousand in this group). So, colleagues, in your decision, is whether it is proportionate if the debtor risks 5 per cent of the outstanding liabilities in this bankruptcy procedure. In the event that the amount of the obligation is higher than 30 thousand but less than 150 thousand, the procedure shall end under the same conditions - a third of the minimum wage shall end in two years. So, in two years, it would be paid out of a minimum wage of EUR 2880, which is less than 3 per cent of the commitment if, for example, it is EUR 100 000. So, honourable colleagues, it seems to me that this provision of the law is very proportionate and I call for these amendments to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U312	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U313	(From the drug depot. A.Barča: “Five minutes - enough!” ) First of all, honourable colleagues, who have since been so deeply involved in making people more likely to borrow? To a large extent, this does not go hand in hand with any kind of prior arrangements regarding the limitation of quick loans. This is first and foremost. Secondly, when it comes to the draft law itself and the declaration that it will be an option. Well, there's no choice! It will certainly not be an option in a reality that many of you may not live in. Seeing that the key concept will be an option and that it will be possible to implement this requirement, banks will, by offering higher interest rates and at the same time the conditions of the option, propose not to apply this criterion and, in this situation, the key principle will clearly be such that none of the people who want to receive any kind of credit will simply agree to it. Thus, the principle of keys set up by nature will not work in practice. Second round. What do you propose with regard to the deadlines for the discharge plan of a natural person? You actually offer to boost it twice! In other words, you do not return to the active economic life of those who want to return to it and go through the insolvency proceedings of a natural person much more quickly. Next question. Of course, in the current circumstances, when you have sold Citadele and you can no longer influence in any way the competition that exists on the market, why are you not using the possibilities offered by the Competition Council on the one hand, and the FCTC on the other, in terms of both the supervision of the market and, for example, the quality of the credit portfolio of banks, when assessing the bank's licence for the actual quality of the credit portfolio in a bank? The national association also stands and falls directly for temporary residence permits... I am opening a message about a record: temporary residence permits are the biggest scare, and this is aimed at preventing market blinking and price rises. Well, honourable colleagues, let's not be naive! A lot of people have left Latvia. One point. Two points. Very many people (From the drug depot. J.Dombrava: “You!” ) and... Yeah, really ours. Ours! Ours are out! People are out! ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “There are people who travel!” ) And there are very many people who have taken on credit obligations that cannot be fulfilled and have to go through insolvency proceedings. But all this time, banks have taken away 40 thousand percent of the apartments. But open, for example, the same Internet portals, those ads! Well, how many of their apartments on the free market? Well, it's not there! Why not? The answer is very simple: the same banking daughters have bought these apartments. So why is that key principle needed in this situation? Because if we intervene in this situation, we will achieve a fall in real estate market prices. ( From the drug depot. A.Barča: “How?” ) Very objective! Reducing sub-credit by reducing... By putting the bank in a competitive position, we will reduce lending, lower prices, and the bank's daughters, who have bought all these apartments, will be forced to sell them at a much lower price. And in these circumstances... The bank's daughter's assets, which are... Well, turn the credit portfolio into a bank! Well, Mr Bondara could tell you very precisely how much the relationship between the banks now... in the case of, let's say, illiquid apartments... whose assets have been revalued compared to the potential future value of the loan portfolio for one or the other bank that has invested all these essential money in order to hold at least the... Therefore, honourable colleagues, this is indeed an absolutely unthinkable step. And I would ask you not to simply support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U314	Thank you. The floor will be held for the Member Ilmars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U315	(From the drug depot. E.Clicken: “Sad!” ) Highly honored members of the Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Members! Big girdle, small wool - so I would describe these related draft laws relating to the key principle. Without exaggerating their importance, I will call for their support, however. And why? Its great groan and also certain inconsistency are the legacy of the times when banks were tempted to take credit, already seeing that many will not give up, that they will fall hard. Still, he could still have... And the people were taking the battles, without thinking whether they would give up. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So there were three perpetrators: givers (banks), members and the state, or... The Saeima, too. And then we started watching who is now more guilty. Muscle demonstration started: “We will show you now!” And in such a situation, perhaps there was also the principle of the keys put in place, which basically does not save those who have already fallen into those traps. But I would never want to blame here for the pre-election time or to put the ash on Members' heads for that was a huge mistake. This was the time when this contrast, which is still felt between the banks on the one hand and politicians on the other hand as leaders of the people, emerged. And this principle of put down keys is perhaps not even the most important in this contrast. And there are two extremes. Two extremes in attitude. Firstly, on the banking side: let us only do what is 100% safe and that is paying off. Here is a bad example of the fact that banks are no longer needed, for example, in Valka or Kraslava. And maybe it's even more worrying than the key principle put in place. And the second extreme is to create the people into the thought: “Take, and if you can, return. If you can't give it back, then... then maybe it will not be necessary to give back.” And we should get rid of these two extremes. Do I have any illusions that the Latvian State can dictate rules for banks with money, compared to which our country's budget is just such a small money? No, I don't have these illusions, but that's a different story, about the relationship between the national state and investors. But we have overstated the key principle in both cases - accepting it very hard and now, as if softening. And it's not as simple as the title: “ Put down the keys, and - come on!” Those who have studied know that it has to go through the insolvency process more painfully or less painfully. And the meaning of these amendments I see is to reduce the contradiction that has developed in the country between the banks and the politicians behind which the people are still standing. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “It’s enough!” ) Some choices are, however, here to choose what the first contribution is and then what the risks are. And if that allows me first of all to say, with the honour of both sides to depart from its position or to step up... ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “Where is the honor?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) and, secondly, if it revitalizes lending, especially in the first place, and if it is linked to some bank promises, sometimes unwritten, but to ease the fate of those indebted victims, then I call for support, because this time hope is not so much the essence of the law, but rather the attitude. And sometimes it happens in life, believe it or not!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U316	Thank you. The next speech to the Member in the debate, Mr Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U317	Colleagues, for giving up banks... I had the honour of being present at the very beginning of the so-called first housing programme, and the problem that was at that time... This instrument was intended to address... The banks claimed a first deposit of 10-15 per cent for housing. Given the size of our society, it was a problem for many families. And with this first housing program was meant to lay down exactly this first deposit, which was 10-15 percent, so that the family could immediately get to the housing. What did we do about half a year later? We voted in favour of this so-called "disabled principle", which automatically raised this first contribution threshold up to 30-40 percent. What are we doing next? Our first housing program is intended to accommodate about 10-15 percent, and as a result we have now obtained a product called: the first deposit - 20 percent. In addition, by means of a State guarantee. That is, if we had sat down and did nothing, then the situation would have been better. So this is a typical example of the fact that it is better that the State does not intervene at all. Then it would have been better. I heard here a proposal to increase funding for this first housing programme so that we get this first contribution down... up to 5 percent. But what does that really mean? What do you think it would be useful if the country took those 30 percent... I'd think of this first instalment, 30 percent? Of course only banks! Since, in fact, this offer not to change this regime is beneficial only for banks. This offer - leave the selected keys valid... I am not in politics for a long time, but certainly part of you here were in so-called fat years. And if such a principle were adopted at that time, it would certainly cool down this excessive lending and really would have been valid, but not now that this crisis has been overcome and this credit market has also cooled. So I call on you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U318	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. You're going to have 11 minutes? ( From the hall: “He will speak quickly! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U319	Dear colleagues, this is... I hear a lot of confusion here about how the financial system works, well, let me at least let those of you who are interested... wants to understand what's really happening, let's say, with your fingers explain... You can imagine that someone comes to the street and asks him to lend some 100-200 euros to buy an apartment or something like that. Will you lend him that money? Well, I think probably not. Why? Because you will consider: “Who is he, what is his income? I don't know him. Will he give back or won't? I'm most likely not to give up." But if the same person offered you some collateral - either a car or a gold ring, or something like that - then the story might be different: you may then be ready to lend him money. But will you lend him money for the same, say, market value of collateral? I think the answer will also be - no. You will be ready to lend him money at the quick selling price of this collateral, which will usually be about 30 percent less. Am I somehow wrong? I don't think so. That's how it is! - operation of a pilot, where a person can take out a credit when offering a security, but usually for the value of the quick sale of the security, one half of the amount, at best 70 per cent. But maybe you too, of course, are prepared to lend, give credit without collateral, are you? But for what? Your friends, the people you know! You know, let's say, their history... that they have a reputation that they give money, that they have a certain income and so on. So the fact that the banking system, as such, works at all and that it is possible to take loans with a reasonable first contribution and with a reasonable interest is because there are certain preconditions. Those prerequisites are that it is possible to bring the borrowers - even if they do not pay - to court and recover the debt from their income. If there are no such preconditions, no one will be prepared to lend money, colleagues! That is why this key principle will be broken down and one of the foundations of this system will be broken down. So the banks will actually be made a bombard, which has no point in assessing either people's income or their ability to repay credit, because everything with which they will be responsible is their security. It's been said here, let's say so, suspect banks blackmail... that says it will be, though it doesn't have to be... But, colleagues, ask yourself this question again: if a person you don't know comes to you with a request to lend him money and if he offers you just collateral, will you lend? How much? I repeat: only about the value of the quick sale! And here's how it is said that probably what happens if this key principle is introduced is that banks will only be willing to lend for the value of quick sales, that is to say, with the first deposit, which will be some 20, 30 or maybe even more percentage points. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Let’s take care of the banks!” ) Colleagues! I think that today - if the vote is positive - we will even save you in the sense that there will not be a situation where citizens will then start asking questions: what is really to blame for the fact that no credit can now be obtained for a reasonable first contribution? Well, maybe sometimes it's worth getting up on the raven so everyone understands what and how... and how things work. That is why it is your decision whether we will do it today or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U320	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Before we proceed to the debate, I would like to inform you that the parliamentary Bureau has received an application from five Members - and these Members are Mr Smilten, Mr Shadurski, Mr Brigmanis, Mr Zarins and Mr Bondar - to continue the sitting without interruption until all the items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The sitting is continued without interruption. The floor will be discussed by Mr Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U321	I don't know how other colleagues... It may already be enough for coalition colleagues to explain to them, with their fingers, why these amendments are needed, why they are justified. However, we would like to see estimates that we have still not seen. And that's why it's all you're telling... The more you tell, the less faith it is that these amendments have really been made with the goal of which you are trying to convince hotly, because you are constantly contradicting yourself. Even though these last claims about these credits... that if this key principle is respected, the banks will have to work as lockers... Nothing like that! Banks will continue to assess the purchasing power of creditors, assess their cash flow. In addition to taking over the mortgage, the real estate to which the loan will be provided will also be the initial contribution. It will then be paid out by this creditor. And if someone has figured out that the creditor will do so so so that he can then just give all of his contributions to the bank... Well, it's just absurd! A person who goes to a bank to borrow this credit thinks not about some kind of financial schemes (as opposed to banks), but he thinks about how to improve his quality of life. And his aim is not to give money to a bank, which he will pay as his first contribution. His aim is not to make these permanent payments, which he will make when he gives back to the bank, just figured out: know, I'm thinking about it. That sounds completely absurd! More! What is demonstrated by the practice in other parts of the world, where this principle works specifically, and where nothing similar you are talking about is happening? That is the main reason that is being fought for and why such desperate banks need to get off this set key principle, which, as you well know, no set key principle exists at all, is that if this principle remains, the banks will have to carry out more responsible lending. They will not be able to make credit bubbles, they will not be able to artificially pump up the price, because they will understand very well that if they artificially raise this real estate price with their credit policy, they will have to answer for it at the end of the day, and the banks are at a disadvantage. And that's why it's all this fight! Not for the interests of consumers, but for the ability of banks to continue to implement this principle of debt slavery, whereby they can beat up credit bubbles and ultimately make creditors responsible. That's the real reason! The reason that banks are not doing so is also not linked to the key principle, because if you look at the statistics, then you will see very well that bank lending began to decrease long before. And the main reasons here are two. The first is the lending policy carried out by the banks themselves, which was allowed by the government and the legislators of that time with their own regulatory environment, which is why our society is simply recuperated with credit, with credit obligations, so there is simply no capacity to take something new. And the second reason banks themselves will also dare to talk about is the results of the so-called success story. Banks simply do not believe - do not believe that if this success story continues, they will have the opportunity to recover this money in the normal way. And so it is so important for them to implement this principle of debt slavery so that they can at least get that money. And also those who have ripped up, I apologize, all these soaps, understand it, so in order to save your skin, try to ditch these proposals now. And it's very sad to look at it all, that in principle people who are here... that they do not think about the future, but think simply about their short-term interests - how to keep someone in power for as long as possible... The illusion of the desired power - and about it is ready to put the people into slavery. I call, colleagues, however, to come up with a very responsible approach to what you are talking about here now. Come here and justify all these thresholds that you have said here now! Why are 30,000? Why - 100,000? Why are these deadlines? ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: ‘... said everything exactly!” ) If you looked... If you had calculations, you would see very well that these thresholds should be very different. But since you have nothing like that, then you're just playing... or those who helped you prepare these proposals had these calculations, and they know what these thresholds should be in order to benefit them. What we've been discussing... On these possible amendments, we discussed this need to change legislation within the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit. And I asked the banks there: “It’s all very beautiful! Let's say that you think Members don't understand anything from the macro-economics, they can't think in a causal relationship that they see the world through those colorful pictures that you show them, but could you also give calculations that justify all this?' The first response was, yes, come on, we'll tell you everything. I said no, but could you submit specific calculations so that they are here and that you can be responsible for what you are talking about? And then they began to tremble, and hiccups, and began to say that they would not deliver them. ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) Then the question is, why should it be hidden? If everything is so correct and justified, give them those calculations! Let us make sure, and we will make such a decision in the interests of the people. Otherwise, there is no doubt, in fact, that all of this is directed in a self-interest to help... to take advantage of this opportunity and cover up their failings and to enable bank lobbyists to pursue their interests. I call for such amendments not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U322	Thank you. The floor will be discussed with Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U323	(From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis: “How much can?” ) It is very good that Mr Vjačeslav Dombrovskis will still speak after me, because it is with him that I would now like to do a little bit of polem - it is the Order reel within the prescribed time frame. Mr. Dombrovskis, Vjačeslav! The fact that the price of the quick selling of the house can now be almost twice as low as the loan for the purchase of the house, means only that the credit market for us is now amplified by the amounts... that the valuations of real estate pledged to receive this credit in banks are unrealistic. On the contrary, the application of the key principle is eliminating this contradiction and aligning the quick selling price with the amount of credit granted! Here is the objective, here is the phenomenon that we want to provide in our credit market! Otherwise, we will always have problems with granting credit to those who are not actually able to secure the repayment of the credit. True, the bank does not know, but only can understand, and it does not know, but it can only understand the creditor himself. In order not to have a problem for him and society, because the problem he will have can then harm the whole society, because he has a family, has a job, has a connection and a commitment, which is why the key principle is applied in other countries. I have already mentioned that in America this principle is valid in ten states, including California, where we know no less than 15 percent of the American population, and it works there. It is not that we want to take over the American credit system in our country, it is not all good in any way, but the principle in itself is not to blame if the bubble that has grown in the credit market in America is then broken. It is about applying the principle, and I call, however, for this specific principle to be maintained in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U324	Thank you. There will be a debate on the name of Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U325	Colleagues! I do not know what Mr. Zarins is trying to defend at the moment, as if in the case of consumers, but all that has been said is that we are now trying to stimulate a debt or credit bubble, stimulate debt slavery and so on... Let's see what's really happening! Credit volumes have fallen ten times. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Why?” ) At present, mortgage credit in the bank is the cheapest credit that a person can receive. Currently, the rules... And I say it because I have gone through it myself. I was suffering for six months while I had a cheap credit with my parliamentary mandate, crediting the liabilities that I had. ( Owe, weeping.) “ Ooo!’ Depp. A.Bērzins: Super! ) Cheap credit means that you take it from a commercial bank instead of borrowing from any third party. ( The Room Noise. Impressions. The head of the sitting shall knock down by means of a hammer.) What I'm talking about is listen! - it's serious. First. At the moment, due to very serious restrictions imposed after the crisis on people so that they can borrow credit, people are currently not going to these credit facilities and are being forced to borrow money elsewhere. I myself, before I was a member of the Saeima, was a lawyer... tried to protect people who had taken money from fertilizers to high interest and were unable to take this loan from the bank to recredit. Therefore, if we are talking about debt slavery, it is important that we, politicians, provide cheap and affordable credit resources for Latvian citizens, and this is also linked to economic growth. Secondly. I think it is important to understand that if we do not support the availability of cheap credit resources, then the rental markets will develop. The forecasts are already such that prices in the rental market are rising. So those who really have money on their hands, who have these real estates, who will rent property, but, for example, the new families, which we talked about yesterday at the “Stockdown Hour” and where this person was present... They rent this apartment by paying a monthly rent that is equal to what they would pay a monthly credit fee. Hence, they simply ‘incinerate’ this money instead of building it up in their real estate by paying the credit. And I think this is also a question of reducing social inequality, so I, my colleagues, am also asking to listen to what Vjačeslav Dombrovskis said, explaining how the financial system works at the moment, and to vote not in a populist way, but in a real sense what consistency it will create for the people of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U326	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U327	Colleagues, now emotions hit a high wave. I just want to respond so briefly to my colleague, Mr Zarins. Mr. Zarin, well, no fingers, huh? Assessing the income of potential entrepreneurs makes sense if these borrowers have the opportunity to guarantee repayment of the credit with their income, but the keys put in place do not actually give them that opportunity. Then, in fact, we either send all people to the pilots, saying that, here, they are lenders who will assess your income and give you the opportunity to also obtain more favourable conditions, because you can demonstrate your income and guarantee a refund, or we, forgive us, compare all people in this way to the lombard users that can only take into account human security. And finally... The calculations, of course, are good, Mr Zarins, but I would be careful instead of you with this kind of demand, because the next time you put forward a proposal, Mr Zarins, we can ask: where, Mr Zarins, are your calculations? Because without calculations, we cannot make a decision. And if we're now beginning to talk about calculations, then I'll ask you to look at the bill of keys set up by the annotations. What have been the estimates there? On what basis, Mr Zarins, did you also make a decision by voting in favour of the keys? Well, let's have a little bit consistent and careful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U328	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U329	( From the drug: “ Anekdoti! For the brown fox!” ) Here we see: one coalition Member with his fingers is explained, the other has a cheap credit, and so we will be able to continue. Everyone will tell why... the motivation he has. What I would like to point out is, however, that it is wrong to compare what you are talking about with the Lombard. You're going to the pilot to get the money and give back your money. If you're going to a bank, you're depositing your money there. And it is already a guarantee that you will not just want to lose this money and you will be interested in fulfilling your obligations. There is an absolutely ideological situation that you are now offering - that someone will go to the bank to make money there and then say: a, I don't need to! No one will! That's one thing. The other thing. If we are talking here about why there is a real situation, why there are problems now with lending, why people cannot take credit, then the main reason is social poverty and this huge social inequality that has arisen. And the reason for this is not the principle of all the keys put in place, but the economic policy that you pursued, which originally allowed... and your service to the banking lobby, which initially allowed these uncontrolled credit bubbles to blow up, then... by bringing the people into poverty with their success story. ( From the drug depot. V.Spolišs’ intermediate calls: “Wait! Where is... ?” ) And that's... These are the real reasons! You do not want to think in the long term, you do not understand that, if we retain this principle, it would force the banks first to start more responsible lending. Also real estate prices would go down. That's one. The second is that banks would be forced to shift their money not to projects where they can carry out debt slavery, but to the economy, to productive sectors, which means that, in the end, our economy would start to develop more rapidly. People's income levels would increase, they would become richer, and they would also be allowed to take more credit. But that's a long-term thinking. And that's what you show you can't understand. I'm so sorry! One politician has said that politicians are thinking only about their own tomorrow, but real statesmen are thinking about future generations. I would, however, like to call upon you to finally become nationals of your country and to think about your future in a context where it is linked to the future of your people rather than to something else in other structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U330	Thank you. The debate is closed. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U331	On behalf of the Commission, I thank all my colleagues for their views, particularly Mr Zarins. I would just like to clarify on behalf of the Commission what Mr Zarins said, namely, about those "many countries" (From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “How exactly?” ), which, as you said, have similar regulation - the so-called key principle regulation. I would like to mention that such "many countries" have about ten states in the United States. There you go! Colleagues! On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U332	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 24, for - 13. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals as well as a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U333	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals - 13 February at 17.00, and consideration of Saeima - 19 February at the sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U334	So the deadline for submitting proposals - 13 February at 17.00, and the second reading - the Saeima meeting on 19 February. Members shall not object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U335	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U336	The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Tax”, first reading. The Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U337	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” at first reading and asks for its urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U338	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U339	The Commission has also unanimously supported the adoption of these draft laws by the Saeima at first reading and calls on colleagues to do so at the Saeima sitting as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U340	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Corporate Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U341	The Commission would like to wait until 5 p.m. on 13 February and for the date of the second reading please fix 19 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U342	So the deadline for submitting proposals - 13 February at 17.00, second reading - 19 February of the Saeima. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax”, first reading. The Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U343	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission, I ask that this draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U344	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U345	The Commission has supported the adoption of draft laws by the Saeima at first reading and is asking for their support at first reading here at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U346	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U347	Deadline for submission of proposals - 13 February at 17.00, second reading - 19 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U348	So the deadline for submitting proposals - 13 February at 17.00, the date of the second reading - 19 February. Members shall not object. The next and last item is the first reading of the draft law on consumer protection. The Commission also calls for this draft law to be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U349	Yes, colleagues, we are working on an amendment to the Consumer Law. And this bill provides for full implementation of the key principle, without being involved in insolvency proceedings, as is currently the case. There are strict criteria for the application of the insolvency proceedings of natural persons: it is time-consuming and requires the sale of all the assets of the debtor. Such arrangements do not fully ensure the achievement of the objectives set by the insolvency law by introducing the key principle. In short, we have already voted in the insolvency law that we take this so-called so-called key principle out and place it in the Consumer Rights Protection Act under the section on mortgage lending, and this norm means that the creditor and the consumer can agree in the credit agreement that the transfer of collateral to the creditor is sufficient to repay the credit. At the request of the consumer, the creditor shall offer the consumer two draft credit agreements, one of which provides that the transfer of collateral to the creditor is sufficient to pay the credit. The other provides for full liability of the consumer for the repayment of the loan. The creditor shall have the right to apply different terms to each of these drafts of the contract. It is, in fact, a regulation that we are putting in place the key principle and what it should be in the Consumer Rights Act. Consequently, the Commission decided to request urgency. So I ask you to make urgent this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U350	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of granting urgency to the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Consumer Rights"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 23, for - 9. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U351	Given that the Commission has supported this draft law at first reading, I would ask my colleagues here in the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U352	Let's start a debate. Name in the debate for Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U353	I stress that this bill is, to put it mildly, a cunning ingenuity of the wise. As we talked about here from this platform today, and even before that, the key principle is to establish in the market regulatory rules that require banks to lend against the value of the mortgaged property, but it makes lending against the borrower's ability to return all its assets to the bank more commercially dangerous. And if a bank lends for the value of the mortgaged property, it becomes commercially risky to grant loans above the value of the mortgaged property and therefore to raise prices in the real estate market. This regulation does not make housing more expensive, but on the contrary! - make them even more accessible. The fact that lending has now become more expensive is the first reaction to the introduction of the new rule, because the market will certainly get everything in order and prices will fall. The lending mechanism proposed in the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection” leaves the possibility of lending against borrower borrowing rather than property, and therefore makes the whole intention of this draft law meaningless, as it preserves and maintains rather than eliminates existing irresponsible mortgage lending practices. And that is not the first rescue of the housing programme, as the supporters of this draft law state. With this facility, the State will not help the first housing buyers, but will burden them with the repayment of their credit throughout their lifetime. I would compare the introduction of these two speed credit facilities with an attempt to warm the house where the wind blows before it. To avoid a hole, it was decided to fill the walls with cement gaps, seal the doors and window frames and not open the doors and window frames. But at the last moment the manager, such a joker, offers the residents freedom of choice - who wants to, can keep the windows open during the island. Does it make any sense to warm the house? By introducing two of these credit mechanisms, we are actually covering the application of the "authorised" principle of the "footsteps" with the existing practice, which caused all the problems our citizens suffered, which are promoting them in their economic emigration and are still keeping them in the lines of debtors. I believe that this draft law does not actually decide anything, but is intended only to preserve the existing incorrect mortgage credit system. I therefore propose that this draft law be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U354	Thank you. There will be a debate on the name of Member Karl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U355	Hello! Honorable Bureau! Colleagues! As you have noticed, the FAO Group had a free vote today and there was less unanimous support for these draft laws. That is why I would like to say a little about why this happened. Yesterday we had a meeting with the management of the Latvian Commercial Banks Association, with the management of the Bank of Latvia, with the managers of several commercial banks (Members of Fraction SASKAŅA: “Aaa!” ), and when they spoke, well, I remembered what I remember here, in the hall, the people of my generation sitting down. Remember - during our school, history books showed such a gloomy, destroyed village, a window covered with boards, on which was written: “All went to the front.” And about this scene we were drawn yesterday by the Latvian Association of Commercial Banks. Although yesterday, meeting with them and speaking with them, we heard such very convincing promises that all these amendments would lead to an improvement in lending, we heard only from the Association of Latvian Bank and Latvian Commercial Banks; despite the fact that SEB bank's head Ozols and the manager of Swedbank Mančinskis were there, they were shyly silent and did not give any such promises about an improvement in lending. What, then, is the current situation in Latvian banks? Well, their profits have increased compared to 2013, and now (last year there have been aggregated results) they are about 300 million. Four major Swedish banks have earned a total of 10 billion in all countries. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Only?” ) And yet another leading employee of Swedish Swedbank... Also in November it was informed that the increase in lending in the Baltic States is not planned and that banks have been ordered to transfer 60 percent of their profits to the parent bank. ( From the drug: “Well, all! ” ) So I hope that perhaps this attitude will change and... because somehow so far it has come to us that when there is a situation where you can promise a trip to Egypt, a wheel and also a helmet, the banks are first in the queues, but when you have to be responsible for the real estate bubble or consumer credit, then you usually start taking the banks for your losses. However, we understand that it is necessary to try and move our economy out of recession - possibly! - point - and that is why we - a large part of the group - have, however, supported these amendments. However, we want to compare the situation of banks in Lithuania and Estonia, where legislation is also quite loyal, but there we see that there is still a more socially responsible dialogue between banks and the state, and therefore we hope that maybe also the banks of Latvia will come against the government in some way and change. Yesterday we also agreed that, if we accept this amendment to the law, if we cooperate or use the resources of the Ministry of Economics, we will try to assess in six months' time whether the banks are fulfilling their promises and whether any movement in lending has begun in a positive direction. If not, then there will probably be no art to collect signatures to repeal these amendments. Therefore, perhaps it will also be time to assess whether it is not appropriate for the State Treasury to transfer the second level of pensions or the financial safekeeping of all state-owned enterprises and institutions, or perhaps the crediting of studies. Of course, there are some mechanisms, so... For whom much is required... You can also ask for much from someone who is being given much. That's the saying... And that's why it's also time for the banks to look at their nails. And as Avatar said: “I will watch you!” ( Merry laughter.) And so I think here too, as Members, we could open these banks and maybe think about whether or not the amendment of the law has reached its objectives in a half a year's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U356	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U357	(From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “Short and succinct!” ) Office of Honour, honourable Members! Mr. Sergeant has already taken half of my concerns with his speech, so I can talk less. I may have little suspicion, or yet this law is not a fiction as such. Why? As if there are these two options, but, as you say, the mind is that in fact there will be only one option. As I said, if commercial banks set such hugely different first-payment percentages, then no one will need this set-up key principle. And then there remains a question that I hope will also be debated within the commissions, because this is the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, not the Commission for Budget and Finance (tax). Why commercial banks fear the key principle - this is not clear to me. I listened very carefully to yesterday's debate... You know, we have property as a candy, great! And here I want to hand over to Mr Dombrovskis, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, because there is a difference from the lombard. So imagine: there is a beautiful apartment like candy, assessors from the bank, great Swedish specialists, appreciates it by the quick selling method. The bank shall collect commission with the first instalment of 10 or 20 per cent. A person pays 5 years by paying 20 percent, then he loses his job and gives this apartment back as a candy to the bank, to which he has already earned 30 percent. But the bank says: “Thanks! No, we don't! We do not want to return this apartment at all.” And then I had a bad suspicion, or still banks do not want to earn a little at the expense of irresponsible people who are unable to calculate their future liabilities, as Mr Dombrovskis says. And remember 2005, what would then have happened if the key principle were in force! As an architect, I can tell you: Ķengaraga apartments worth 20 thousand dollars. The excellent Swedish specialists, after the crisis - and they knew what was going on - valued them for 100 thousand euros. And, you know, they were not ashamed of it because Latvians are fools. So they stole about 70 percent of the money, and many people left for England without being able to return. Isn't that a little bit of a... I'm not saying that all... I understand that most commercial banks sleep and get up with the idea of helping the Latvian people with a living area (Dep. A.Bērzins applauds: “It’s true!” ) and are even willing to make a premium, but some banks are bad, so they will certainly use this principle. And that is why I have some concerns about all this, but I hope that we will prevent it in the commissions and discussions and, with great pleasure, adopt the most favourable law in the second vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U358	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U359	Dear colleagues, I will be very brief on lobbying and on observation. As far as lobbying is concerned, it is absolutely normal - whether it is banks or any other legislative body. It's a normal phenomenon and a normal thing! An abnormal thing lies elsewhere, in other places, because an abnormal thing is an uncritical attitude of legislators or creators of laws and regulations towards the reaction that is from the lobby. This is a problem! Second, with regard to observation. Crediting... We're talking about mortgage lending, it's just one way of lending. But if we take past examples and monitoring practices... Last June, the European Central Bank for the first time set a negative interest rate on deposits... commercial bank deposits with the central bank. That was less than 0.2 percent. For what? Therefore, so that banks do not hold free funds to invest in projects, other forms of credit to expand money circulation. What are the results after the first three months in Latvia? The investment made by Latvian commercial banks decreased by 22 percent after the introduction of this incentive rate. Let us see what will happen, as Mr. Sergeant calls for, in this area too! What's going to happen in six months? But I think that, however, this should be done at a time when we are beginning to discuss all these proposed amendments. These amendments do not solve problems for users, but they make life easier for banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U360	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there something to be added on behalf of the Commission to Member Smilten?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U361	Well, yeah! In the Commission, we decided to support at first reading, and I also ask Members of the Saeima to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U362	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on consumer protection law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 22, for - 10. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U363	We will wait until 5 p.m. on February 13, i.e. tomorrow, for constructive proposals in the Commission. And a second reading at the Saeima sitting on 19 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U364	So the deadline for tabling proposals - 13 February at 17.00, and the discussion in the second, final, reading - the Saeima meeting on 19 February. Members shall not object. Dear colleagues, The entire agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you that today it was planned to provide answers to Members' questions - a total of six. Five of these six questions have been answered. One of these is the answer to the question put by Members Zarins, Agešins, Elksniņš, Tutins and Urbanovičs, who was addressed to Minister for Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola, “About World Expo 2015”. The written answer to this question shall satisfy the applicants. Four questions were addressed to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma. All questions were answered in writing. These questions are: Members Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Agešina, Arthur Rubika and Tutina; Members Elksniņš, Stepanenko, Agešins, Arthur Rubiks and Tutin; Members Elksniņš, Stepanenko, Clementjevs, Raimonds Rubiks and Mirskis; Members Elksniņš, Stepanenko, Raimonds Rubiks, and Mirskis; Members Zarins, Agešins, Elksniņš, Tutins and Urbanovičs; The question referred to the Prime Minister in relation to the World Expo 2015 media. All these questions have been answered in writing. Unfortunately, the written responses received are not satisfied. However, the Prime Minister is currently outside the country's borders, so she cannot attend oral answers. The response is therefore postponed to the next sitting. Today's agenda includes the question of Members Zarina, Agešina, Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss. However, information has been received that the Minister for personal reasons is unable to attend for an oral answer, so that no reply is given. On the other hand, two new questions have been received. One question has been raised by Members Lochmele-Lunova, Ivan Klementyev, Dolgopolov, Orlov and Andrejs Klementyev. The question is addressed to the Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seilei, and the question is “On the results of the service test on possible waste of state funds by creating a portal for schools.lv”. This question is referred to the Minister for Education and Science. The question for Economic Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On possible mutual agreement between credit institutions” has been received today. And the speakers are Members Zarins, Urbanovičs, Potapkins, Lochmele-Lunova and Orlovs. This question will be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. But according to the seventh paragraph of Article 119 of the Saeima roll, one of the speakers - the Member Ivars Zarins - wants to give a motivation from the Saeima station to submit this question. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U365	It'll take one minute. At the time of the discussion on the set key principle, credit institutions jointly changed the lending conditions, on the basis of the decision of the Saeima on the implementation of the set key principle, although the planned legislative amendments had not yet entered into force and could not be attributed to loans granted during that period. This gives rise to justified concerns that credit institutions have discussed with each other issues relating to the allocation of credit markets and conditions for the granting of credit, and have agreed among themselves to ensure that, by exercising their market power, the market changes are beneficial for themselves. This suggests that such activities of credit institutions could be considered prohibited. Since neither the Saeima has any calculation nor any justification at its disposal for the new draft laws, nor do we have at its disposal in order to confirm that the conditions for the choice offered by the banks will be reasonable and fair for the consumer, we have addressed the heads of the institution supervising the Ministry of Economic Affairs as the Competition Council with questions about the examination of credit institutions regarding possible mutual agreements and the assessment of the activities and responsibilities of credit institutions officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U366	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for registration. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Please register the result! As long as the results of the registration are collected, the name of the notification to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U367	Dear colleagues working in the Saeima Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please go to the commission meeting, which will take place in five minutes' time in the committee's premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U368	Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U369	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Guntis Belēvičs, Lolita Čigāne, Aleksandrs Kiršteins... Yes, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Ainārs Mežulis, Ināra Mūrniece, Nikita Nikiforovs, Inguna Ribena, Andris Vilks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U370	Thank you. Name for the statement to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U371	Hello! Until you're gone... A group of Members for cooperation with Canada will be set up in a few minutes. Of course, everyone is welcome because many people have not yet signed up.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-12-PT12-285-U372	Thank you. On February 12th, 2015, I declare the sitting closed.
