ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in the Saeima sitting room so that we can start the 22 January sitting!... Good morning, colleagues! I call once again for space. Let's start the Saeima sitting on January 22! The agenda is an annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U2	Highly honored President of Latvia, very honourable President of the Saeima, members of the Saeima Presidium, honourable Members and honourable Members, Ministers, Excellency! I am pleased to open the 12th Saeima's first foreign policy debate and hope that today's debate will be interesting and with new ideas. I hope that the cooperation of the Cabinet of Ministers in foreign policy and European affairs led by Saeima and Laimdota Straujuma will be as successful and constructive as during the previous Saeima. Starting my report on the last year in the world and Latvia's foreign policy, I would have liked to say that the world and Europe enjoyed peace, security and prosperity. Unfortunately, the reality is completely the opposite. I dare to say that our country, its foreign service, is facing unprecedented challenges for the security of Europe and Latvia as a whole. We have been faced with the most serious security crisis so far in Europe after the Cold War. Russia's annexation of the territorial part of Ukraine, its aggression and hostilities in the east of Ukraine and its clear desire to audit international order and principles of international law have been a challenge for the whole world, including the European Union and Latvia's foreign policy. In parallel, we are seeing an increasingly distant Russia from the international community, a massive campaign of propaganda against the European Union and NATO-oriented NATO, and a desire to see the world in shared spheres of interest. This causes parallels to the gloomy pages of the 20th century. I would like to hope that our century will be smarter than the previous century, without repeating the mistakes that caused two major tragedies in the world. That is the responsibility of all of us. The attack on the French magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris has further confirmed the need for a strong counter-terrorism policy. This tragic event threatens one of our fundamental values - freedom of expression and expression - as fundamental values of democracy in Europe. The situation has also developed in the southern neighbourhood of the European Union. The activities of ISIL terrorist group in Syria and Iraq clearly confirm the need to fight international terrorism together by clarifying and supplementing both European and Latvian laws in order to prevent extremist activities, as well as to prevent our citizens from participating in groups of this kind. Terrorism has become an external and internal challenge. What will Latvia's foreign policy be about during the 12th Saeima parliamentary term, and especially in 2015? The foreign policy makers and diplomats of our country will have four challenges. Firstly, strengthening the country's external security in the context of a rapidly changing and dangerous geopolitical situation. Secondly, active representation of public interests in the European Union and effective implementation of the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Thirdly, strengthening Latvia's political and economic competitiveness, both globally and regionally. And fourthly, maintaining and strengthening effective ties with the people of the world. It is in Latvia's interest to implement the common foreign and security policy of the European Union. Honourable Members! In view of the threat of instability in Europe, Latvian diplomacy will make every effort to strengthen Latvia's internal and external security, both by strengthening the presence of NATO allies in the region and by promoting the acquisition of new external export markets, thus contributing to the economic competitiveness of our country. Russian military activity at Latvian borders has already been observed in previous years, but in 2014 it became particularly worrying. Russia's military activity in the region has increased significantly last year. Around 200 intercepts have been reported in the air and 50 in the sea, which are more than in the past ten years in total. Such activities pose a threat to the security of Latvia, and during the NATO Wales Summit, very important decisions were taken to strengthen the security guarantees provided by our allies and their real presence in defence of the Baltic States and Poland. At the same time, we must make our own efforts to strengthen our internal and external security. The Defence Financing Law provides for 2 percent of gross domestic product to be reached by 2020. According to an agreement reached in Wales, 20% of this amount should be devoted to defence investments and new equipment. Last year has made it clear that national capabilities need to be strengthened, not only in the case of military threats, but also in the case of new threats. The so-called hybrid war has become a reality for Europe today. In 2014, together with six other NATO member states, we have opened the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence or STRATCOM. Together with the other Member States of the European Union, we will work on the development of the European Union's capacity to address this type of threat, in particular to mitigate the impact of third countries' propaganda instruments in the European Union's media space. Civil-military cooperation should also be strengthened through dual-use capabilities to protect borders. This means strengthening the capacity of the national justice system, information space, as well as practical national border and security authorities. In view of developments in the world, near the borders of the European Union, as well as in traditional and new hotspots, the European Union's security strategy has become obsolete. Its first sentence, "Europe has never been so prosperous, safe and free" shows in itself how far the reality of 2015 is from what was written in 2003. That is why it is necessary, already under our Presidency, to launch a review of it. The European Union must invest much more in the development of common defence capabilities, increasing defence budgets, improving cooperation with NATO, and modernising defence industry. Latvia will also contribute to strengthening the European Common Security and Defence Policy by participating in Common Security and Defence Policy missions and operations in Afghanistan, Georgia, Somalia and Mali. Latvia's participation in the European Union civilian mission in Ukraine is also planned. Latvia will definitely stand for closer strengthening of the Common Security and Defence Policy instruments cooperation with the UN and NATO's most powerful Member States, in particular with the US. Honourable Members! In addition to the tense security background, Latvia's foreign policy will have a major role to play in 2015 in the successful implementation of Latvia's first Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The Presidency is also a question of our self-esteem and our ability to act in Europe. There is no doubt that preparing and now the Presidency itself makes all of us - the public administration and the whole of Latvian society - smarter and more self-confident. Just as the recent status of the European Capital of Culture has been a success story, the Presidency's public diplomacy and cultural programme will mark Latvia even more on the map of Europe. In close dialogue with non-governmental organisations and social partners at home, as well as within the Italian and Luxembourg Trio Presidency, Latvia has set three main priorities for Europe during the first half of 2015. The first priority of the Presidency is to strengthen Europe's competitiveness. In practice, this will mean working hard on the development of a new investment by the European Union, the so-called Juncker Plan, the establishment of an Energy Union, the strengthening of the Banking Union, so that Europe returns to a path of long-term growth. The second priority is the development of the Digital Agenda for Europe. This in turn means integrating the digital element into the policies of the European Union, enhancing data security, cyber security and promoting the European Union's single digital market in order to promote the Community's digital competitiveness against the United States and Japan. Thirdly, the Latvian Presidency will focus in particular on strengthening the European Union's global and regional role. I would like to emphasise this in my address, in particular, because this priority has a direct impact on the European Union's foreign policy dimension. The first two priorities, on the other hand, are set out in more detail in the foreign policy report that is available to you. The Latvian Presidency will focus on strengthening the European Union's cooperation with the Eastern Partnership countries. On May 22, 2015 the Eastern Partnership Summit will take place in Riga. I am convinced that this will be one of the most important events of the Presidency with a number of important tasks. I would like to highlight four of them. Firstly, the Riga Summit must send a clear signal that the European Union has interests in strengthening and continuing the Eastern Partnership. Secondly, the Riga Summit will assess the achievement of the objectives set at the Vilnius Summit and provide an initial assessment of the implementation of the Association Agreements. A programme of assistance should be drawn up to support those countries which have concluded association agreements with the European Union, including in the practical implementation of those agreements. Thirdly, the liberalisation of the visa process with those Eastern Partnership Member States that meet all the criteria will have to move forward. Fourthly, this initiative on the part of the European Union should be further developed in accordance with the interests and readiness of each of the Eastern Partnership Member States to cooperate with the European Union, rather than applying the same approach to all six countries. Similar to last year, Latvia's foreign policy attention will focus primarily on Ukraine in 2015. I would like to emphasise that Ukraine, with the presidential and parliamentary elections held last year, has clearly defined its choice. Ukraine has strengthened the course of European integration, as well as providing an important basis for the continuation of reforms. It is also necessary to further promote a unified and supportive EU policy towards Ukraine in order to support the implementation of democratic reforms and also the financial contribution to the recovery of the country. At the same time, the successful implementation of reforms depends mainly on Ukraine’s own will. As I said, we will continue to support the policy of Ukraine both bilaterally and at European Union level. However, the success of Ukraine's reforms, the further development of the country, depends directly on its territorial indivisibility. I believe that only the implementation of the Minsk agreement, including the transfer of the Ukrainian-Russian border under Ukrainian control, the suspension of Russian support for separatists, the export of military equipment and soldiers, the release of prisoners, the establishment of a demittal line between the Ukrainian forces and separatists, and the implementation of the constitutional reform of Ukraine are grounds for stabilising the situation. Here I want to see a much more active role of European Union diplomacy, and that is something that we will also stand up for during and after our Presidency. Latvia will strongly support the efforts of Moldovan and Georgian governments to implement democratic reforms in their countries, conditions appropriate to European level for business development, as well as strengthening the rule of law and European values and norms in public administration and society. As before, Latvia will strongly advocate the territorial integrity of these countries. Latvia highly appreciates Belarus's constructive position in the context of Ukraine's crisis and believes that constructive development of relations between the European Union and Belarus is possible. It is up to Belarus itself to develop further cooperation with the European Union. However, I would like to emphasise that we are open and ready to promote cooperation on the basis of mutual understanding, while not deviating from fundamental European values. Latvia will continue bilateral cooperation with Belarus, developing cooperation in the areas of transport, border surveillance, education, science and environment. At the same time, the issues of human rights and the rule of law remain an essential part of our dialogue. Latvia will stand up for a flexible approach in relations with Armenia. We respect Armenia's desire to be part of the Eurasian Union. At the same time, we are ready to promote cooperation between the European Union and Armenia as much as Armenia itself wishes. Azerbaijan is seen as an important partner for the European Union's energy cooperation. At the same time, we are concerned about the situation of the media and political freedoms in this country, this issue will be on the agenda of both the European Union-Azerbaijan and Latvia-Azerbaijan. Let us pay particular attention to the southern neighbours of the European Union, where the main challenges will be security and respect for international norms, migration risks and stability in general. We will work together on the practical implementation of the European Union Strategy for the prevention of ISIL threats of foreign fighters, as well as addressing migration issues at European level. Latvia will stand up for strengthening the presence of the European Union in the Central Asian region. We have already made a major contribution as a mediator in the dialogue between the European Union and the countries of Central Asia and will address security, education, energy and the environment as well as sustainable development as part of our Presidency. In developing the policy of the European Union, Latvia plans to actively participate in the review of the strategy of the European Union for Central Asia, focusing on the practical needs and interests of the five Central Asian countries in promoting dialogue with Europe. We will also support the further enlargement process of the European Union in the negotiations with the candidate countries of the European Union in the Balkans. It is in Latvia's interest to spread the values and norms of the European Union beyond the borders of the European Union, thus contributing to peace and stability. Latvia will also seek further progress in the process of Turkey's integration into the European Union. Honourable Members! 2015 is a year of thematic development cooperation. This year is very important for defining the new UN development goals and for attracting sources of funding. Latvia believes that within the European Union and the UN, much more attention should be paid to issues of good governance, rule of law, gender equality and sustainable economic growth. Greater attention should be paid to the development of projects in the Eastern Partnership and Central Asia countries by national development cooperation policies. It is positive that the state funding for Latvia's participation in development cooperation projects is gradually increasing in recent years, but at the same time it is insufficient to achieve the objectives set. Under the current geopolitical circumstances, a special place in the Latvian Presidency is won by the actualisation of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement (TTIP) negotiations with the US. The US-EU Free Trade Agreement will strengthen the transatlantic link and create the world's largest free trade area. Latvia will actively support the European Commission and the European External Action Service to complete the negotiations in line with the decision of the Council of the European Union by the end of 2016. A high-quality text of the agreement must be created, which will serve as the basis for the new generation of free trade agreements. At the same time, we will do our utmost to involve society more closely in the negotiation process and its reflection and to promote maximum transparency and transparency. In particular, let us stand for high standards in the area of food safety and public health, as well as the inclusion of the energy chapter in the Treaty. Honourable Members! I guess no report by the Foreign Minister to the Saeima is possible without a section dedicated to relations with Russia. We have an interest in Russia, which is a predictable and cooperative neighbour, a constructive partner for the European Union and a responsible member of the international community, alongside us. Therefore, a year ago, speaking to the 11th Saeima, I expressed my willingness to do everything to ensure that relations with Russia were based on the principles of mutual interest and mutual respect. Unfortunately, these expectations have not been met in 2014. Former so-called ‘Prime Minister’ of the so-called ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. In fact, this action is aimed not only at the sovereign state of Ukraine, but also at the whole of Europe and international order. Several Russian neighbours in Europe have experienced both demonstration of military muscles and efforts to intervene in other internal affairs, aggressive rhetoric and action. Under the cover of the so-called concept of the Russian world, there are attempts to divide societies from the inside, while the Russian propaganda machine has assumed speed in trying to mislead the international community about events in Russia, Ukraine and the world itself. The Russian Federation is trying to gain influence not only with regard to its “citizens” abroad, but also more widely. Free, independent media environments are affected, and common standards in this area are threatened. The common democratic fundamental values of Europe are called into question. Such propaganda poses common challenges for the countries of the European Union and for transatlantic allies. The only and most effective way to deal with the challenges posed by propaganda in the Russian Federation is by strengthening the quality of the media, an independent media environment. Together with our partners Riga could develop into a regional centre for the promotion of free and independent media space and the training of journalists. The current assessment of the situation clearly shows that unity, principle and coordinated action by the Member States of the European Union and the transatlantic partners are working. The revision of the international system has never benefited anyone. Latvia will never support border changes in an illegal manner. The annexation of Crimea and Russia's actions in the east of Ukraine are unacceptable to Latvia. Depending on the situation with our partners in Europe, we are, of course, prepared to examine, if necessary and if the situation improves, including a review of sanctions. The economic destabilisation of Russia is not in the interests of any one, but sanctions and international isolation were the choice of Russian leadership. It is not yet too late to change this choice, but it will require practical action by this country aimed at complying with the principles and rules of common law and, as I said earlier, full implementation of the Minsk agreement. Latvia will do its utmost to ensure a unified and principled position of the European Union in its relations with Russia. This position strongly defends international order and the security of the Member States, including ours, and provides support to the Ukrainian people. At the same time, the dialogue between the European Union and Russia on the normalisation of the situation must continue. Latvia and Russia are neighbours who cooperate in many areas, however, Latvia's and Russia's relations in 2015 will be largely determined by developments in the east of Ukraine, as well as by the common climate of relations between the European Union and Russia. Honourable Members! In 2015, Latvia's foreign policy will continue to promote Latvia's competitiveness in both the Baltic Sea region and Europe, as well as globally. In 2014 Latvia successfully continued the process of accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, in Latvian abbreviation - OECD. In 2014, the OECD highlighted the progress made by Latvia in the areas of anti-corruption, tax administration and development of public administration. By becoming a member of this organization, Latvia will be able to use its knowledge and best practices in order to promote its competitiveness. After joining the OECD Latvia, together with the world's most advanced economic powers, will have the opportunity to influence globally important economic policy initiatives. Thus, the sustainability of the Latvian economy will be strengthened, as well as external economic activities will be promoted. In addition to the interests of Latvian entrepreneurs, Latvia's diplomatic service is also developing. In 2014, two new diplomatic missions of Latvia were opened - in India and in the United Arab Emirates. The necessary preparations will be made in 2015 to open a representative office of Latvia to the OECD in Paris in 2016, as well as an Embassy in the Republic of Korea. The economic recession in Russia as well as its countermeasures against the economic sanctions imposed by the European Union against a number of Latvian companies, especially in the food sector, make it necessary to learn new export markets for their sales. In 2015, the Foreign Service will continue to actively support Latvian entrepreneurs to expand their activities in export markets in Central Asia, South Asia, the Middle East and the Gulf countries. Honourable Members! In 2015, the Foreign Service will continue to support the Latvian Diaspora abroad, promoting the ties of foreign Latvians to their homeland and strengthening Latvian language and culture beyond our borders. It is fundamental for Latvia's future to ensure the participation of the diaspora in Latvian politics, economics and social processes. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are around 370 000 people living outside Latvia who feel belonging to Latvia. There are 1000 Latvian organizations, approximately 100 Latvian educational institutions and associations in foreign countries. In 2014, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs actively cooperated with the Diaspora organisations in the world. We provide support in preparing for the General and Regional Song and Dance Festival. The first Latvian youth forum was also organized. Started projects in the fields of education and culture will continue this year. In cooperation with the Free Latvian World Association, a second World Latvian Economic and Innovation Forum will be organised, providing new ideas for Latvia's future. Honourable Members! The Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union coincides with the challenges of a full phase in European history. The war in the east of Europe, the threat of instability in the south of Europe caused by immigration, terrorism and the economic crisis, the loss of confidence in the European idea of a number of Member States of the European Union, as well as the slow economic growth over the last year in the whole of Europe, are challenging Europe's common unity. Strengthening Europe's common position and position on critical issues - in short, the European motto "United in Diversity" - are also the most important motif of Latvian professionals - politicians, diplomats and officials in the first half of this year. Latvia is very well prepared for the Presidency and is able to respond adequately to the existing and new challenges that will arise during the Presidency. However, Latvia's foreign policy will not end this year with the Presidency last month. Together with the Government and the entire Foreign Service, we will consistently implement in 2015 the foreign policy tasks of Latvia that I have just spoken about. Last year's events clearly confirmed that Latvia's strategic choice to become a member of the European Union and NATO was the only right choice for our country to guarantee future and security. Latvia is a member of the Euro-Atlantic values community - this is our basis. Our future is a strong and united European Union of national states. However, the European motto “United in Diversity” is also a story about us, our Latvian society. The key to Latvia's foreign policy success is our own people, our ability to be united and united. Only then will we be able to achieve the Latvian foreign policy goals in 2015. Let all of us succeed! Thank you for your attention. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U3	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Let's start a debate. Name in the debate for the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U4	Dear colleagues, Please allow me to use the two times of the parliamentary roll and to speak for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U5	Are Members opposed to extending the speaking time to 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U6	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U7	Members shall not object. Please, Mrs. Mourniece, you have a name!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U8	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Sir, Sir, Excellency! Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to Mr Rinkēvičs for his report. The Foreign Minister's annual report is rich in facts and intentions. This is certainly the best annual report I have read from the Foreign Minister. The report briefly, but very specifically, sets out the directions for the work to be done on foreign policy, which makes this document very useful. The specific and clear part of the fundamentals in terms of intentions is particularly important due to the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Rinkēvičs, and all the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs involved in the preparation of the report for their excellent work, especially in view of the tense agenda for both the preparation of the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and now. The Presidency has begun with respect, but it is quite clear that it will be full of challenges and that there will be a need for a great deal of flexibility and a rapid response. This has been demonstrated by early January events in France and Belgium, where safety was the most important task on the agenda. Latvia and the Baltic States, as well as Poland and other partners, have managed to perceive the need to highlight security as one of the priorities in a very early phase. This has happened faster than other countries of the European Union, showing the Baltic and Latvia as a sensitive international seismographer in regional geopolitical challenges. They are able to detect future shocks that are not yet visible to others and to encourage them to prepare wisely. The last year was the year of the break, when, from a European point of view, the broadcasting Baltics became an ins perceptible source of concern for strengthening security. The challenge of the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, a clear position on security issues regarding Russia's aggression in Ukraine, has been clearly highlighted, all the more so as to explain at the level of the highest administrative apparatus of the European Union, including addressing the high efforts of European officials to mitigate sanctions against Russia. The importance of clear, immediate signals is demonstrated by the collegial response of a number of European Union countries to the text of the e-mails that was flooded in Federica Mogherini, in which she wrote about Russia's reintegration into the global dialogue and the mitigation of sanctions. Lin Linkevičius, Lithuanian Foreign Minister, formulated his position as follows: “We do not need to involve Russia. It's Russia that needs to think about getting involved.” The Latvian Foreign Minister reacted immediately, declaring that the abolition of any sanctions can only take place when the Minsk agreements are complied with. Speed, flexibility and a clear message are now an expression of the successful functioning of both public and silent diplomacy. I believe that our Foreign Ministry feels secure in this full pro-active way of dealing with the challenges, and our mobile foreign minister will find the right approach to the interests of Latvia here. I understand that it is not always easy for Mr. Rinkēvičs, it is not just the Latvian Foreign Minister, but the Foreign Minister of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It is important that he has the capacity to defend Europe's common interests, not a certain functional finger of the European Union in the Russian cake, which is particularly favourable to Russia. The Latvian Foreign Minister is tasked not only with listening to the wishes of Brussels; his role is to contribute to the common voice, which expresses its concerns, demands to justify them and offer a solution. I believe that Mr Rinkēvičs has this potential. And although it can be seen that the choice and these operating conditions are not always easy, when I return to the report, I would like to draw attention to certain aspects of Latvia's interests. This is first of all about our cooperation with our closest neighbours in the Baltic-Nordic form of the so-called Eight. Both NATO and our Baltic Sea neighbours play a crucial role in Latvia's ability to defend itself against potential threats. This cooperation should be further developed. We are now highly dependent on each other, and practical cooperation is not a regional exercise, but a matter of security for the Baltic and the neighbouring countries. The last year was also an excellent time for the Ministry of Defence to invest in the common security system. The work was started by the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence, which gained international status in the course of the year. This centre was also mentioned by the Foreign Minister. Its opening is a practical contribution to the NATO Alliance, and Latvia becomes a security multiplier in the Alliance, developing modern capabilities that will be used in the transatlantic space, together with allies. On energy security issues in Latvia, the report mentions - and I would like to emphasise this in particular! - on the need to introduce the European Union's third energy package in preparation for liberalisation of the gas market in the near future. Indeed, it is high time to take action! So far, we have been indecision and allowed our Baltic neighbours to address gas supply issues without our involvement. The influence of Russian friends' lobby is well known, we have seen it here in the Saeima. Now we need to take advantage of all the opportunities offered to us by the European Union regulations on energy security. 2014 was the year of recovery, when the European Union stopped thinking about energy dependence. It has become clear that the Member States of the European Union must not depend on a single supplier, as has happened in some places, such as the Baltic region. It is therefore important to diversify energy supplies and create their own supply channels. Russia is a country that plays political games with the economy. In this situation, Russia can no longer be seen as a reliable partner of the European Union. Economic commitments are subject to an imperceptible sentiment, and even culture has become a political hostage. The most important problem for Latvia is and will obviously also be Russia's aggression against Ukraine, which also determines Russia's current position and role in the international environment. Therefore, strengthening cooperation with NATO and Latvia's defence capabilities is our main task, including both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are a number of challenges to be tackled in the international environment. One of these is the question of the definition and place of the hybrid war already mentioned in international law. The war initiated by Russia in Ukraine is confusing the minds of the west of Europe. There is a network of different conventions around the conventional war, which, in a well-known way, makes it possible to soften the effects of war on the humanitarian sphere. We know what conventional war is. The same clarity must be created around the hybrid war, starting with its precise definition, and it must be done in different formats, both within the European Union and more widely, from the UN Human Rights Committee. Last year has made significant progress in the European Union's understanding of the influence of Russian propaganda. Its influence is already worrying for countries that did not think about it in the past, and today we live in an information war. I would like to highlight two practical initiatives by the European Union which have a good potential to sort out the media space. The creation of a qualitative, modern European channel in Russian is a valuable opportunity that needs to be discussed in the context of the Russian information campaign. The Minister also stressed this in his speech. The amendment of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive would be an opportunity to create a better legislative framework for us at national level. The amendments to the directive cannot be seen strictly as an issue related to Russian propaganda, but as an issue that strengthens the media environment. As regards Ukraine, further efforts should be made to recognise the Donetsk and Lugansk factions as what they are, as terrorist organisations. It will be unpleasant for Russia, because no one likes it if it is named by its real name. However, thousands of deaths fall on the conscience of the terrorists supported by Russia, so climbing is out of place. This would help countries that may be victims of similar aggression. The last days show that aggression in Ukraine escalates. Significantly there are statements by Ukrainian officials on the progress of the basic principles of foreign policy towards NATO accession. The issue of assistance to Ukraine is topical. The European Union must define what can be done together and what should be done by each country individually. Ukraine war our war, but one day we can get an invoice. Therefore, Ukraine's problems, including economic and institutional problems, are also European and also Latvian problems. But I want to close on a brighter note. In the context of common safety concerns, it is essential to remember the issue of values. To paraphrase Jacques Delors: more than the single market is needed to fall in love with Europe: Europe still needs a soul. The European soul is an indisputable value for Europe: peace, a strong historical memory, cultural and communication traditions, the attractiveness of prosperity, together with the desire to live up to the principles of social justice, the culture of a green, clean environment and freedom. I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs once again, because this year's report is a thought-raising document. This makes us all think about our contribution to Latvia's foreign policy. I believe that every one of us, including Members, can find a way to strengthen our common values and our common security in the performance of their duties. Thank you for your attention. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U9	Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U10	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. High Ministers! Dear Chairman of the Saeima and the Bureau. Your honors! Colleagues! If we believe that foreign policy is composed of challenges and opportunities, then 2015 offers us both in full. The foreign minister's statement that Russia's aggression in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea are an unprecedented challenge to international security, order and justice can be fully accepted. There is no doubt about this, because it has caused significant security threats to Europe and Latvia. The same serious threat to world peace and security is posed by international terrorism, which was once again recalled in Paris and Belgium. I think everyone sitting in this Chamber will agree that in 2015 security of Latvian citizens is our main foreign policy priority. The challenges for our internal and external security, as well as our economic and social security, are interconnected. They require a complex solution. While we must continue to increase our defence budget to 2 per cent of GDP, diplomacy is our main tool in tackling these problems. However, this year, 24 years after the restoration of independence, Latvia has unique opportunities not only to prevent potential threats, but also to strengthen our sovereignty, stability and economic growth. In my opinion, the keyword in the foreign policy report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this year is cooperation. Without cooperation with other countries, security is not possible. We can work together to develop new markets and promote our economic growth. Cooperation eliminates threats and opens up opportunities, including cooperation with the other 27 countries of the European Union and NATO, cooperation with the Baltic Sea Region neighbours, cooperation with the countries of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union and with the countries of Central Asia. This cooperation reaches North America and our NATO allies in the US and Canada, with which we are working on transatlantic trade and investment agreements. At the same time, we continue to develop economic cooperation in the Far East - with China, Japan and South Korea. In 2015, we are very well positioned to lead this cooperation through the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On January 8, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security, Federica Mogherini, noted two advantages of Latvia in chairing this Presidency. The first is that we have a wide world view of all the geographical directions that make up Europe's neighbourhood. The second is the constructive, balanced and consensus-building diplomacy of Latvia. The Presidency of the European Union is a huge challenge. This not only opens up opportunities to help Europe tackle our common challenges, but also gives us the opportunity to promote our national interests. The priority work directions of Latvia in the Presidency of the European Union are directly aligned with the national interests of Latvia in security, economics and prosperity. The European Union's competitiveness, the digital agenda and its global role are interrelated objectives and therefore realistic. Does Latvia have foreign policy interests outside the priorities of the European Union? Of course! Of course, there is, because each country has its own special interests and bilateral obligations. However, security considerations and the Presidency of the European Union make us focus our efforts on common interests. The NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence established in 2014 is a good example of how Latvia plays a leading role in the fight against negative propaganda and the risks of hybrid war. We have created a centre that is able to carry out a continuous analysis of the modern communication environment and technologies that influence policy processes. This centre offers new ideas and practical proposals that will have a significant impact on future NATO policies and strategic planning. And although this is the centre of excellence of NATO, it creates an ideal opportunity for cooperation between NATO and the European Union, because the interests of the two organisations are completely in line here. Because not only is Russia using information war technology to divide transatlantic unity, terrorist groups like Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State, or ISIS, are using the world information space to destabilise our societies. As the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we must seize this opportunity to strengthen the link between the European Union and NATO, to attract finance, expertise and other resources, to develop this centre and to develop an effective and sustainable strategy. But as this is a parliamentary debate, I would like to emphasise once again the role of the Saeima in the formulation of foreign policy and European policy. On 8 January, for the first time in the history of the European Union, the European Commissioners noted the opening of a new Presidency with consultations with the parliamentarians. More than 30 Members of the Saeima took part in discussions with European Commissioners on foreign policy, security, the economy, the economy and social issues. Thanks to Lolita Chiganė, President of the Commission on European Affairs, who proposed this idea, you had the opportunity to address European Commissioners, to express your views, to ask questions and to influence the European Commission's activities. But that work does not end with these meetings or with today's debate. Every member of the Saeima participating in NATO, OSCE and other international parliamentary assemblies has the opportunity to continue this dialogue and promote Latvia's interests. Already now Latvia is praised for its successful preparation for the Presidency of the European Union both organisationally and in substance. We have something to be proud of. In the full year of the crises, Latvia's foreign policy has been consistent, reasonable and balanced. By continuing with this approach, we will be able to respond to the challenges and make use of their potential to safeguard the security of our country and promote our national interests. But finally, when it comes to the security of our country, I would like to emphasise the importance of cooperation not only with our allies, but also here in this Chamber. Despite many different political views, at this time of crisis, I am pleased and grateful for the constructive cooperation I have had with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with all the political groups. Thank you for that. We have a duty to the people of Latvia - to continue. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U11	Thank you. Name: Lolita Chiganė, President of the European Commission on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U12	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Foreign Minister! Mr. Defence Minister! I am very pleased that we are taking this foreign policy debate under the flag of the European Union, which is a vivid symbol of the great event determining the life of our country this semester - the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In recent months, I very often meet many decision-makers of today's European Union who, as diplomats of the European Union, have stood at the cradle of the restored Latvia and have looked at with concern and hope, which will come from the newly born child, the state of Latvia. In 1991 the challenges facing Latvia were huge and the questions about Latvia's existence were very, very many. These memories, which also concern us with the barricades that we are celebrating, make us very clear that we are showing solidarity with our Ukrainians of destiny who are experiencing precisely such challenges and experiences at the moment. For example, the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmerman, recalls how he has listened to the tragic events of this one in Bastejkalns in January 1991 from his room in the current "Rīdzene" hotel. Many of them asked the same question as we asked ourselves at that time: “What about Latvia and what about Latvia?” Today, when we have been in NATO, in the European Union for 10 years, paying off the euro and, finally, we are leading the European Union as the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, our success seems to be reassuring, but of course they have come through patient, careful and persistent work. It is because the moment of true political maturity for every Member State of the European Union is the half-year of its Presidency and the country becomes a mature, genuine Member State of the European Union during that time. In this six-month Presidency, we will develop and grow here in the Saeima, because now Latvia, leading the work of the Council of the European Union, speaks on behalf of the whole of Europe in very many international formats. It is often believed in the European institutions and in the Member States that the Presidency as a whole is merely a matter of government and that its priorities are reflected only in the actions envisaged by the government. This is definitely not the case in the case of Latvia, because the Saeima has always been closely involved in Latvia's activities in the European Union through the European Commission. In everyday life, it is related to the approval of national positions in the European Commission for European Affairs, before Latvia's opinion is expressed in the respective councils. During the Presidency, the European Affairs Commission confirms the Presidency's mandate for the most important legislative initiatives of the European Union. Only a small number of national parliaments in the Member States of the European Union have such close involvement of national legislators in the decision-making process of the European Union. We are very proud of the fact that the architects of parliamentary involvement chose this model and that weekly discussions on European Union policies with the responsible ministers in our commission are a practice. I hope that, together with the ministers, we will also successfully continue this practice. And thank you to all Members for their active involvement in the work of the European Affairs Commission. As part of the parliamentary dimension of the European Presidency, the Saeima organises five high-level conferences in Riga, each bringing together from 100 to 350 participants – parliamentarians, Commissioners and high-level international experts. Very soon - on 1 February - in this very hall, in our Chamber, the first of these conferences will be attended by the chairmen of the European Affairs Commissions of all the national parliaments of the European Union, who will be sitting in the workplaces of your fellow Members. In addition to issues such as the European Energy Union and the Transatlantic Partnership Agreement with the US COSAC, the issue of closer involvement of national parliaments in the European decision-making process will also be discussed at the Riga conference. And I am very pleased with the opening day of the Presidency, which my colleague, Mr Kalniņa, has already mentioned as an unprecedented case, that we discovered the Presidency precisely with the visits of the Commissioners of the European Commission to the Saeima and the discussions with the representatives of Parliament and our social partners. Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said in many previous speeches, the time of the Latvian Presidency coincides with a number of very important challenges for which solutions can be found in our Presidency priorities and which will also be reflected on the agendas of parliamentary conferences organised by the Saeima. In the area of employment, Europe is currently facing a major challenge: an ageing population, which coexists with very high youth unemployment. High youth unemployment means the inefficient use of the energy and creativity of young people, often creating a sense of exclusion for young people, which can ultimately threaten Europe's common values if the young generation feels ignored and not involved. I therefore thank Mr Berzins for the recent discussion on the Youth Guarantee programme within our parliamentary sub-committee. Thus, Latvia has started working with the Youth Guarantee, and I call on all members of the Saeima, together with our youth associations, to engage in its formation and supervision. Unfortunately, the European Union, for various reasons, is not currently an especially attractive target for foreign investment: the reasons involve little economic growth and the inflexibility of the regulatory framework, in particular labour market regulation. We have also tried to fight hard in this area here in the Saeima, working with changes to the Labour Law, and we know how difficult it is to achieve these necessary changes. The German Chancellor Merkel often mentions three very important figures: 7 per cent of the world's population lives in the European Union, 25 per cent of the world's total gross domestic product, and 50 per cent of all spending on social security is spent directly by the European Union countries. So that we can continue with a model so that we can ensure this prosperity for our societies, we need to achieve greater competitiveness, especially by making young people - they are our future! - are properly employed. The employment rate of young people in many European Union countries is currently unacceptable, as in some of them youth unemployment is up to 40 per cent. And finally. The previous speakers talked a lot about Russia's military aggression in Ukraine and also about the expansion of Islamic fundamentalism in Iraq, Syria and Libya. In a way, we can say that the shooting of the newspaper Charlie Hebdo is related or comparable to such a peculiar 11 September in Europe. It also changed very much the accents of our Presidency. In this case, it merely proved that, with regard to the aggression that is currently taking place in the territory of the independent Ukraine of the Russian Federation, we must not forget what is happening in the south of the European Union. The Presidency of the European Union - this is, above all, our duty, our duty of solidarity. Latvia has gained a huge amount from membership of the European Union: our gross domestic product has increased by 20 percent thanks to membership of the European Union, despite the very severe economic crisis that we experienced in 2009. For half a year, we will put our perhaps still somewhat fragile, but surely determined, common European Union project, which has given us so much as a Member State of the European Union. Thank you for your attention. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U13	Thank you. On behalf of the Unity - Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U14	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence! Your honors! Ladies! Oh, my God! Colleagues! I am very pleased that, with the establishment of this parliamentary tradition - a foreign policy debate - there is a rather dynamic development in Parliament and, in general, our foreign policy rate is increasing with each year. Events in the world are changing dramatically and we must be able to respond to them. Especially right now! And now we are the mirror of the entire European Union. Unfortunately, the foreign policy debate this year is taking place at a time when Europe has just received a new and extremely painful blow to its security, peace and stability. And this will also bring some adjustments to our agenda as the Presidency, because we need to move the various security-related issues more rapidly, more actively. We well remember that, a year ago, in Ukraine, the situation was threatening at this time, but a particular form of threat had not yet been accepted. Nobody wanted to believe that Russia could implement its geopolitical ambitions in such a brutal and violent way. And if, in last year's foreign policy debate, we only talked with concern about possible threats in Ukraine, without yet realising the challenge posed by the current escalation of international security, then just a little later - more than a month later - we saw the very concrete features of Russia's military aggression and the subsequent annexation of Crimea. Russia's aggression has shaken international order, and despite the fact that there is no direct military threat in Latvia, Russia's increasingly assertive demonstrations of force, aggressive military training not only in the Baltic border, the permanent presence at sea borders and provocation in the airspace do not allow us to become self-satisfaction this year. Since the events in Crimea in March, when violations of international law are taking place in the region every day, Latvia, as a small country, needs to think more and more about security, focusing on its weaknesses, including civil protection measures. And that's not what I mean, like a neighboring country, to issue a brochure that in case of war, you have to buy a swarm or a match. By this I think we need to educate our people through modern and effective means, talking about how different audiences can respond to different situations. Similarly, greater emphasis should be placed on the involvement of society in strengthening security, the wider involvement of young guards and landguards in training military skills, public education and also the promotion of patriotism, because, according to experts, how much we understand that our country is the only country to be defended in an important and security threat situation is a very important aspect for us to be able to respond to the situation if something is going on. And in the event of a security threat, it can be an important pillar of internal security. Last year's NATO Summit in Wales brought significant benefits to Latvia and the Baltic States in general. The Alliance's commitment to strengthening NATO, including the military capabilities of the Baltic States, the presence of NATO forces in the Baltic States and Latvia, taking into account the historical experience and current tensions of our country, means a great deal for people, especially those whose memories still hold the horrors of war. At the same time, we are undoubtedly aware that Latvia, as a full member of the NATO Alliance, also has responsibilities, responsibilities and concrete commitments that we have undertaken and will fulfil. Already in Parliament, we have taken concrete steps with the adoption of the law on the financing of defence. And I know that the opposition will now come and be blamed for the fact that 2 per cent was already needed this year, not in 2020, but I want to emphasise once again that it is not important whether that 2 per cent is this year or next year; if there are specific projects where we need to invest in our security, then there will also be additional funds if more than 2 per cent is needed. You don't have to stop with a single number, with a percentage harrow or a turn. We are aware that security is our priority. We have adopted a law that has shown our partners that we can. Currently, money is enough, as demonstrated by partners. If more is needed, it will also be this year. Returning to the recent tragic events in Paris, it has to be said that unfortunately they are proof that the threat to European security is not only diverse and interrelated, but they are becoming increasingly complex and more ambitious. We can undoubtedly take a certain sense of relief into the assessment of the responsible security services that in Latvia, compared to other European countries, the level of terrorist threats is low. However, we must be aware that Latvia is not isolated on a common European map. Extremists who, inspired by propaganda or recruiters, have begun their path of radicalisation in Europe travel abroad to fight in so-called hot conflict zones. Studies show that individuals will become even more radical in this process, and from such cases too, which could seriously undermine our internal security, we cannot be protected by one hundred percent. We cannot rule out that some extremist groups could try to activate, and I see that it is precisely to reduce radicalisation and intolerance, as well as to prevent hate speech, that it is essential to address all levels in the near future, already today. It is also our duty, as politicians, to act, especially on the painful dates of our country, without knowingly calling out the waves of certain provocations. I agree with the words of Archbishop Jānis Vanags: “The tragic is not that people mark various memorial days, but that people in this way cannot celebrate 18 November together.” Today, to safeguard democracy and democratic values in order to find stability in Europe, it is more important than anything else to be united and united. This is also reflected in the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It must be acknowledged that this time, Europe symbolically demonstrated a great deal of cohesion, faith, respect and importance for its values - peace, solidarity, human rights and fundamental freedoms. Not only European leaders, but millions of people across Europe agreed on a common and clear 'we don't care.' People do not have the indifferent value that lies at the heart of the democratic states of Europe. People are not asleep. And Europe has not fallen asleep, no matter how often we try to think of it by the ideologists of the information war. It has awakened, I hope all of us too. I hope that we are aware of the danger of propaganda or, more precisely, of its monopoly. And this is not just a problem for Latvia or the Baltic States. In Latvia, security authorities have pointed out the various risks posed by the irrational inventions of lies and propaganda directed by Russia, and today, in order to separate lies from objective facts and realities, more access to information is needed. I believe that we will be able to find solutions to strengthen the national media space, which will provide a solid basis for our common security in the future. Several European countries are also facing the consequences of Russia's extensive information war. For example, following the collapse of the passenger plane over eastern Ukraine, the Netherlands has provided funding to the European Democratic Fund to find effective solutions to combat Russia's extensive information war. And I am sure that this study will be presented at our Eastern Partnership Summit already. And we are aware of the need to combat Russian propaganda activities, and I want to hope that in the future, within Europe, we will be able to be united and united in mitigation solutions and lessons learnt. In the Saeima, foreign policy is also not just an exclusive sphere of work of the Foreign Affairs Commission. As my colleagues have already pointed out, the representation of Latvia's interests must be part of our daily work. We can and must maintain active contacts with our foreign colleagues, promote the exchange of experience and contribute to both security issues and the promotion of economic growth and other issues. We have the opportunity here to meet our colleagues both during the Presidency and in any day-to-day contacts and to explain what is important to our country... which is important for our country, which is important for the European Union, which is important for everyone. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister and his team, the diplomatic corps, our ambassadors and embassies - with their limited resources! - on the work that has been done to bring more success and benefits to our foreign policy. Latvia is the first Baltic country to represent its dairy products in China. It is just a small promise that proves the importance of foreign policy. The many people who receive assistance from the consular service, the many people who see our country's embassies and representations as such an island of security in any region... It is our people's 'Thanks' to them for their contribution and contribution. And during this Presidency, I would like to wish every one of us so that the domestic work that we have done has been noticed. But we need to think about our safety every day. It cannot be a job as such, and every task and every one of our abilities and responsibilities is to think about it every day. May we succeed and succeed! ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U15	National associations “All for Latvia!” - on behalf of the Group on ‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U16	Dear and honourable Members, Please allow the right to speak for 15 minutes in the parliamentary roll.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U17	Are there any objections from Members that a Member unites both speeches on one occasion? There is no objection by Members. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U18	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! Ministers! Excellency! Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the annual foreign policy report. It is true that the document is more transparent and more qualitative than previous years' reports. There are many issues on which the National Association has no objections, but there is a lack of specificity and action plan in a number of sections in the report. This is a cause for concern that Latvia avoids a clear position in foreign policy, refrains from taking a leading role in addressing important and complex issues for Latvia. Several topics of the report are directly related to the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We wish the Presidency as successful as it has begun to continue! In the Council. We wish the Presidency as successful as it has begun to continue! The Presidency will close in six months. Latvia must work towards its national interests independently of these obligations. We invite the Foreign Minister to realise that you are primarily the Latvian Foreign Minister and not the European Union Minister for Foreign Affairs. With regard to the new composition of the European Commission, the National Association is cautious in its assessments. Just as the previous High Representative has not taken a specific position with regard to Russia, the position of the European Union with regard to Russia is not entirely clear at the moment. In the meantime, Latvia demonstrates its concessions at European Union level in its relations with Russia. We continue to climb on various issues, including whether or not the President of Latvia should go to Russia on 9 May. Latvia does not show initiatives at the moment when the fight against Russian propaganda is planned at the level of the European Union for unforgivable reasons. We are not clearly saying that the sanctions imposed on Russia must not be lifted. In this respect, we even have double standards, for example, when Latvia's foreign service continues to cooperate with the Russian company in providing services in the shadow of the imposed sanctions in Russia. Once again, Latvian policy makers are trying to build illusion bridges for cooperation with Russia. It is legitimate that this year's report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is dominated by the issue of security and relations with Russia. A year has passed since the Ukrainian-Russian crisis, and the light at the end of the tunnel is still invisible. Relations with Russia are deadlocked. The late response of the international community has contributed to the dangerous development of a hybrid war based on aggression, lies and manipulation. Yes, the hybrid war and its threats are mentioned in the foreign policy report, but it does not show concrete steps on how the threat will be identified and what action we take in the event of such a threat. Firstly, hybrid war needs to be defined at international level. In the context of this conflict between Russia and Georgia and the events in Eastern Ukraine, we can draw direct parallels. This indicates that the international community has not learnt lessons from its mistakes. In the case of eastern Ukraine, the hybrid war has evolved with new threat elements. It is high time for a plan to be drawn up at national, European and also NATO level for the early identification of the hybrid war, the prevention of its risks and risks. This needs to be integrated into national security, defence and foreign planning documents. Secondly, terrorist organisations have been in place since the worsening of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia in Eastern Ukraine. Colleagues, that is what terrorists are, not separatists! NATO and OSCE stress in their reports the link between terrorists and Russia. Russia is now providing military equipment in full legal terms to terrorists under the cover of humanitarian aid, supporting their activities. In eastern Ukraine, a number of peaceful people have lost their lives from the missiles that have been broadcast by these terrorists. Let us be honest! Among what has just happened in France and what is happening in eastern Ukraine is a sign of uniformity: there is a threat to international security in both countries. The National Association believes that there is an acute lack of political will to recognise that Russia-supported, well-organized terrorism is dominated by Eastern Ukraine, which must be combated immediately, as is the case with ISIL. The report states that the fight against terrorism is one of the challenges facing the European Union in 2015. Latvia will lead the European Union Task Force on Combating Terrorism this year. Colleagues! Latvia's task is to ensure that terrorist groups operating in Eastern Ukraine are recognised as terrorist organisations. Only then will we be able to deal with countries and individuals that support terrorist formations, both at national and international level. The National Association emphasises that both Latvia and the international community are also eligible for events in Crimea in the right words. The international community strongly condemns annexation of Crimea, Russia denies annexation. Although - should we not consider that the occupation of Crimea has actually taken place? The report lacks the specificity of Latvia's planned assistance in Ukraine's crisis. Latvia is implementing a forward-looking, responsive policy, although there are a number of measures that we can already implement. For example, by strengthening the Eastern Partnership cooperation programme, Latvia needs to develop humanitarian aid mechanisms as far as possible, for example, by providing medical assistance to Ukrainian soldiers in Latvia. Latvia must provide support for the reform of the Ukrainian public administration and strengthening of the legal power. What is the home work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in strengthening security of Latvia and the European Union? A review of the security strategy of the European Union will be launched during the Latvian Presidency. At the same time, Latvia has started working on the development of the national security concept. The national association believes that this is the time for us to do so as a matter of urgency in the context of the European Union's entire security strategy. The concept of national security must set our security priorities on the basis of which we can lead national positions in the drafting of the European Union's security strategy paper. In order to achieve this, Latvian laws and regulations provide for active involvement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in these processes. The active action of the Ministry was also awaited by the issue of combating Russian propaganda. Yes, we have heard the Foreign Minister explain in the public space the responsibility of the Presidency and the principle of neutrality that Latvia must respect. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we knew all these conditions for a long time before we became the Presidency. Then why did Latvia not become the leader of the European Union's fight against Russian propaganda in good time before the beginning of the Presidency? If we had been far-sighted, it was the Presidency that would allow us to steer and defend Russia's expanded propaganda on a much more qualitative European Union agenda. Latvia is silent at the moment, although the information war is fasting every day, creating a direct threat to Latvia's national security. The information war that Russia is conducting is not only about events in Ukraine. The Rupor of Propaganda has been operating for years. As regards Latvia, this concerns the issue of non-citizens. As mentioned in the report, Latvia has been elected by the UN Human Rights Council since 2015, which allows us to play a more active role in the issue of human rights. The National Association believes that Latvia should defend its position on the issue of non-citizens in the UN Human Rights Council, noting that Russian accusations about alleged violations of Latvian non-citizens' human rights are part of Russian propaganda. In addition, it is the moral duty of Latvia in the UN Human Rights Council to stand up for the rights of Tatars living in Crimea, who are already exposed to violations of human rights and the risk of deportation by Russia. Colleagues! Let us remember that Russia is not only a neighbour of Ukraine, but also a country with which Latvia and the European Union as a whole have an external border! Latvia and the European Union must work towards strengthening the external border by attracting European funding as a direct contribution to the security of Latvia and the whole region. In strengthening regional security, the National Union wishes to thank allies, in particular, the United States, which was the first to respond to the events in Eastern Ukraine and, aware of the seriousness of the threats, ensured the continued presence of military forces in Latvia. When it comes to the European Union's external borders, we cannot ignore the processes that are taking place in southern Europe. Current European migration... An immigration policy that poses various risks can be described as failings. Europe is facing hard work and difficult decisions on this issue. The National Association emphasises that Latvia must have a clear position on immigration issues. A great deal of talk in the European Union about quotas, how many immigrants each country should accept. If this is the case, Latvia has fully implemented this quota with 260 thousand non-citizens living here. That would be just fair. We are in favour of the position that every Member State should retain the exclusive right to decide how many immigrants to be admitted rather than to be determined by the institutions of the European Union. Although the European Union's foreign policy, security and defence is now implemented by consensus, Latvia should in addition implement closer cooperation between the countries of the Baltic Sea region, and Latvia as a relatively small country can achieve its goals and national interests more successfully by establishing alliances and acquiring allies. The same essential cooperation on security and economic issues is in the Baltic and Black Sea countries within the framework of the European Union and NATO, on which nothing is mentioned in the report. International processes in Latvia lead to an assessment of the ability to reorient its economic activity by identifying new export markets. In particular, the report highlights Central Asia, but the National Association believes that the importance of this region is overstated. Let us be realistic! Aware of Russia's influence on Central Asian countries, which opens up a wide range of risks, which are perhaps even difficult to identify at first, should not ignore the obvious ones. A much more stable and larger export market is India and China, where the total population is forty times that of Central Asia. The report is presented as an action plan with neither deadlines nor targets nor expected results. The established policies of uncertainty continue. The National Association believes that with such an approach we risk making Latvia's foreign policy responsive, forgetting about Latvia's national interests in the long term. As the report begins and ends with Ukraine, which is the most important thing of the year, I will also conclude the opinion of the Group of the National Alliance with this issue. The report points out that, in view of Russia's actions in Ukraine, it will be necessary to work actively on new approaches in search of relations with Russia this year. The main objective is to achieve Russia's return to respect for international law and its international obligations. It is not possible until Crimea is in Russia and Russia will not be able to abandon its imperialist ambitions. The policies implemented so far by Russia show the opposite of a successful implementation of the stated objective in practice. The report highlights that Latvia's cooperation with Russia should be continued on practical issues, whereas the European Union's position is to implement this cooperation on technical issues. The national association would be happy to get clarification for these two fundamentally different approaches. Finally, I invite everyone and everyone to understand that Latvia's foreign policy begins here in Latvia, not beyond its borders somewhere in the East or the West. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U19	Mrs. Silver, you're not going to have seven minutes? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: Ten! ) In this case, we will continue the debate after a break. It's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Before reading the results of the registration for notification to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U20	Dear members of the Saeima Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications! Please take a short sitting in the Yellow Hall right away!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U21	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U22	Dear Members, Currently not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Mārtiņš Bondars, Andris Buiķis, Sergejs Dolgopolovs... ( From the drug depot. S.Dolgopolov: “Ir!” ) is, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Andrejs Clementyevs, Roman Mežeckis, Nikita Nikiforovs, Sergey Potapkins, Romualds Gamuks, Kārlis Sergeant, Veiko Spolitis, Jānis Urbanovičs, Ilze Viņķele... ( From the drug depot. I. Viņķelis: Yes! ) Ilze Viņķele is, Jānis Vucāns, Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U23	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U24	Dear colleagues, Please, take your seats! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. Colleagues, I call for seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the debate! On behalf of the “From the heart to Latvia” fraction – Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U25	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Prime Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! In the annual report by the Foreign Minister on what has been done and what has been planned, I hoped to find an answer to the question of what is the fundamental task of foreign policy, how it will be implemented, rather than the question of what the priorities of the government and the Presidency of the European Union are because they are written in other general documents and are scanned every day. But what measures have we taken and what must be taken to achieve the basic foreign policy objective of the Government Declaration - to guarantee the security of the country, stability, international conditions for economic growth and the well-being of the population? Beyond the round official language, which has spread as a great plague not only within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but throughout the public administration, there is neither an analysis of the current situation nor the “anticipated action” promised in the title of the report. Unfortunately, we must conclude - a formal, bureaucratic report that raises only an unanswered question instead: how has foreign policy helped and will help to address national security and economic growth in the future? Sir, This report is one of the most boring summaries of information and positions approved by Latvia, which has only been read recently. The report is as boring as the primary school textbook if you were asked to read it right now. In every page of the document: Latvia will continue to implement, provide support, effective response, investment, focus, successfully continue, work actively, encourage discussion, growth and role to be promoted and strengthened, set and implement goals, create preconditions, express condemnations - and also clear! - and then will ensure stability, and of course work will continue. It is particularly valuable to know: when do you, Minister, use in the report the word "Latvia believes", which is the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Saeima, the public? I fully agree that society has two fundamental issues: security, which depends on internal and external factors, and prosperity, which is directly dependent on Latvia's economic growth, and therefore on the foreign policy implemented. Security is important at national, regional and global level, as you mention in the report. We are a country of the European Union and NATO, and at the same time each of us is aware that we have one of the most important Schengen borders, behind which Russia is behind. Given the geopolitical circumstances, we should carry out a thorough analysis of Russia's internal and external policies. Where can we learn about such an analysis? How is the Latvian Government ready to defend Latvia's national interests by supporting producers who are currently suffering from the sanctions introduced? How great a threat to the Latvian economy is the fall of the Russian ruble? Has there been no great internal political tension in Russia, which could also turn the refugee stream towards our country? Why is there no word in the report on these issues? Similar questions arise about security at a global level. The report states: "The year did not make significant progress in resolving the Middle East conflict." Minister, if there is a conflict, there are reasons for the conflict, right? If there are no reasons for analysis, there can be no serious conflict resolution policy. What led to internal political conflicts in Syria and Iraq? The idea that more attention has been paid to the terrorist group "Islamic state in Iraq and Levanté" and that this is a new threat and a challenge for the entire international community is far from enough. If the threat is, how serious is it? What is happening to refugees who are fleeing from these threats? How many of these refugees are there, and where do they seek refuge, and how many threats do we face? These are, in my opinion, issues worth an analysis! Does the government have plans and means to help address this refugee problem? There is no such plan in this document. The events of recent weeks have had a significant impact on the public's attitude towards terrorism. The issue of the security of Latvian citizens has become especially topical at the moment - during the Latvian Presidency. Minister, who in Latvia is the person No 1, who is responsible for preventing terrorist threats? ( From the medicine, “Silver! ” ) The report states that Latvia will join the United States' coordinated international coalition in the fight against ISIL terrorist group. What is it about a coalition? Which countries are part of this coalition? If this operation is not within NATO, then probably such an accession procedure should receive a mandate from the Saeima. In the “Fight Against Terrorism” section you are informed that in 2015 Latvia will continue to participate in NATO efforts to support the security and stability of Afghanistan. In the past, you said that the mission had been successfully completed. Minister, please tell the Saeima how many times there has been an increase in drug business and opium in Afghanistan since the start of the NATO mission? What kind of money is being exchanged by the same Talibans in whose hands will we leave Afghanistan? What is the justification for the presence of the mission, the justification for making 150 billion doses of opium per year in Afghanistan ( 25 times more than the number of people on earth)? Afghanistan produces twice as much heroin as it produced 10 years ago around the world. The question arises: Are we fighting terrorism or protecting drug factories? Drug business is believed to be a source of terrorism. Question: "What is the mission's positive balance?" It follows that the long presence of foreign troops did not prevent, but contributed to the country's talibanisation. The fight against terrorism in this area is already a myth, the same as chemical weapons in Iraq. When it comes to this geopolitically hot region, the question arises: why did you, Minister, not find a place for Iran in this broad foreign policy statement? You will not deny, however, that Iran is the largest geopolitical player in the region, with great demands on the nuclear field. You yourself were there last year and I hope you understand the problem well. I understand that Iran has no priority over bilateral relations with Latvia. However, Latvia, as the Presidency of the European Union, could try to promote the opening of the European Union representation in Tehran. Perhaps that would be something the world would remember from our presidency. There will be no other permanent memory of people. Our presidency looks like a watchout in the class: wipe the table, arrange the benches, ventilate the room. Where are the ideas to mark Riga on the political map of the world like Helsinki, Maastricht, Lisbon? Instead, Latvia will promote closer cooperation between NATO and Finland and Sweden. What techniques, please? Finland and Sweden worked together with NATO already while Latvia was still walking at the bottom of the NATO table. I would like to remind you that the second principal task of the foreign policy mentioned in the Government Declaration is to establish internationally the conditions for economic growth and the well-being of the population of the country, and thus also to provide support to entrepreneurs in the acquisition of new export markets. It would be interesting for Members to know in which countries, apart from the abovementioned South Korean Embassy, you are planning to open embassies and diplomatic missions. Latvia has more than 40 diplomatic missions. What is the economic impact of these? How many professional economic attachés work in them, and how great is their contribution to learning export markets? The document also prioritises the protection of the interests of the European single market. However, the list of activities for the protection and promotion of Latvia's economic interests takes just a page. This is limited to the report on diversification of external relations and involvement in food export certification. But what will we do next? The statement and belief that the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement will contribute to Latvia's important economic relations with the USA, which will have a positive impact on the standard of living and well-being of the people of Latvia, as well as provide new opportunities for entrepreneurs, especially in the pharmaceutical, food and woodworking sectors, sounds beautiful, but incredible. You stand for greater transparency in information and transparency in the negotiation process. Could you start with discussions in Latvia? How can this Treaty actually affect Latvia's economy? What are the studies that such "market without restrictions" entry into Latvia will affect our producers? And finally, a very important section of the document in which you say, Minister, that - and I quote - you will develop, facilitate, pay increased attention - and finally activate cooperation in the Baltic Sea region. In order to bring this election closer to real policy, would it not be important to establish a common maritime border for the Baltic States? We live in an age of globalisation! We are talking about a common deepening of the security and common foreign policy of the European Union, but at the same time we cannot agree on a maritime border with our neighbours - Estonia and Lithuania for 25 years. Why do we still live in temporary limits? Where is the problem? Ranges or virtual oil hiding in the sea depths? Cooperation in the Baltic Sea region has a key role to play in launching Rail Baltica project, but there is still no clear answer about the financial impact of this project in Latvia. Cultural and economic activities have been mentioned, especially participation in councils and fora, but there is no answer to whether we are concerned and we are going to tackle pollution in the Baltic Sea. Should we not finally enter into an active dialogue with our immediate neighbours on the common defence of the political and economic interests of the Baltic States in the European Union? So far, cooperation has been fragmented and has not been made to count on the Baltic States as a serious player in European Union policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U26	Mrs Silver, your speaking time is over. You can ask for an additional 5 minutes and use them as the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U27	I'll literally finish in 30 seconds. Yes!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U28	Are there any objections to using 30 seconds? There is no objection by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U29	What has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done to agree on common diplomatic missions and diplomatic services abroad, thus reducing expenditure on the state budget? Recently, the new Riga Theatre had the opportunity to watch the show “Twelfth Chairs” created by the same name novel, and in this witty novel Ostap Benders asks Polesov: “What is your political credo?” And it answers: “Always with you.” Throughout this report, too, the word “all” is the word “all”: always ready to accept, support, implement,... a stranger. There's nothing here. Is it really like the big oncules remind us: “You are not policy makers. You are politicians.” Thank you. ( Ambitious by members of the NSL Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U30	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U31	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Ministers! Excellency! Last year has been marked by shocks both in international security and in the economy. Military conflicts, economic shocks, acts of terrorism and much more. Europe has changed. The world has changed, but we in Latvia have to take care of both national security and economic development and welfare. This is particularly important at a time when Latvia is holding the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. All our national foreign policy interests are important, but I want to highlight the importance of economic interests today. That may differ my speech from that of the previous one. I welcome the message in the annual report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs that, despite the geopolitical shocks, Latvia will give more support to entrepreneurs to acquire new markets, with an emphasis on diversification of export markets. Latvian foreign policy must be based on national interests. In consultation with national entrepreneurs, it is necessary to carry out an assessment of the global markets, to determine prospects, to ensure promotion of Latvian goods and services and to promote the interests of Latvian entrepreneurs directly. In our foreign policy, economic interests must be a priority in order to ensure the development of our companies, jobs and decent pay for Latvian citizens. Important economic challenges cannot be solved without an active foreign policy. Latvian entrepreneurs are interested in special conditions to facilitate the movement of goods and services across the border of the European Union. We have the old cooperation partners - the nearest neighbours of the Baltic Sea region, the European countries, the USA and Canada. However, we also have an important Eastern Partnership, and we need to look in new directions - the countries of Central Asia, the countries of the Middle East and China. There are markets where we need to look for sales of Latvian products outside the European Union. Diplomatic success and the acquisition of new markets in these regions could be a good, stable basis for our long-term economic upturn. With regard to international organisations and other countries, relations should be established, with three priorities: national security, promotion of goods and services produced in Latvia in global and European markets, attracting investment to Latvia, thus contributing to social and economic development. In this respect, I would like to point out that we have set a course and are moving forward to become a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Foreign experts point out: joining such a prestigious organization as the OECD is a quality mark of Latvia, which means that we are a reliable and developed country. Latvia will gain a wide range of knowledge and information, as the organization has accumulated first-class expertise for decades. It is very nice, but it is unclear what the price we will pay for membership of this organisation is. Already during the budget approval, we thought that the current expenditure of hundreds of thousands of euros had been planned in several sections of the budget and that membership fees would have to be paid after accession. Will participation in this prestigious organisation bring our economy back to waste? Have the relevant calculations also been made? Our land is also important to us, so I hope that, moving towards membership in this organisation, we will not sacrifice national interests, for example, by opening up our forest and agricultural land markets, making it also available to citizens from other countries outside the European Union. Looking at the European dimension, the agenda should include work on reducing inequalities between rich and poor countries. It is unacceptable that the world's 80 richest people have the same share as the half of the poorest people, taken together. The gap between the rich and the poor is the main reason why the great people are walking, why the Old Europe is facing the security challenges that can be seen today. Latvia urgently needs to develop a completely new migration policy. Early or late migration will be at the forefront of the political agenda, but in the face of rapidly changing global events this can happen much more quickly than we have predicted. If we are talking about the European Union, then I can say that no institution has enough votes for Latvia to have a significant impact on the result, but there are many different options that we can use skillfully. During the Presidency, many of Latvia's representatives in various institutions of the European Union are managing and coordinating important issues at the level of the European Union. These people will have gained experience that cannot be learned by attending courses, seminars or reading books here in Latvia. We must therefore use the potential of these highly qualified specialists to defend national interests even after the Presidency. I believe that by making the right use of this potential, we can gain many future victories in the fight for national interests at European Union level. In policy making in the European Union, our core line must be to explain and remind all Member States that it is in the common European interest that all territories develop fully. Solidarity is a word that we hear very often in Brussels. As regards the crisis and the impact of the embargo, it is therefore necessary to call for joint and several action by the European Union with regard to Latvia as well. The decision on sanctions was taken in a spirit of solidarity, and decisions on financial assistance for victims of these sanctions should also be taken in a spirit of solidarity, covering expenditure from the European Union budget. The three main priorities of the Latvian Presidency are: a competitive Europe, a digital Europe and a Europe involved. I would like to focus more on our priority of competitiveness in the context of agriculture. We have a significant improvement in the competitiveness of agricultural products, therefore, during the Latvian Presidency, measures should be taken to promote the competitiveness, quality, sustainability and job retention of the Latvian agricultural, food sector, forestry and fisheries sectors. Dear Members, Now on certain specific issues of the European dimension of farmers. Europe has set itself ambitious targets for climate change mitigation. This will also affect the agricultural and forestry sectors. In this context, it is absolutely necessary to take into account the specifics of the Latvian agricultural sector that our agricultural production has excellent preconditions for development. We must not allow Latvia, which is one of the greenest countries, to develop an environmentally friendly and sustainable farm (e.g. increasing the number of animals in livestock) simply because we do not have enough emission quotas. The European Union and Latvia are faced with serious infectious animal diseases that have not been spread in Europe so far (e.g. African swine fever). In addition to this, many farmers are facing the consequences of the Russian embargo. The situation is serious in many sectors. During the Presidency, organic farming is one of our priorities. Many active discussions have taken place in the Council since the Commission published its proposal for a regulation on organic farming. The main task of the Latvian Presidency is to reach an agreement at Council level so that we can start negotiations with the European Parliament. It is very important for us that the new proposal is fully in line with Latvia's interests. The simplification of the common agricultural policy is the second of Latvia's most important priorities in the field of agriculture. We must not create ever more bureaucratic and administrative burdens for our farmers. At present, this has failed neither for Latvia nor for the European Union. We are adopting new laws, creating additional difficulties for producers and spending on public administration, while at the same time telling everyone that we are simplifying. That can no longer happen! Every new law must really reduce the burden and lighten the demands on farmers. The issue of the Russian embargo on agricultural products is also affecting us all in Latvia and elsewhere in Europe. The embargo has now been in force for five months. Unfortunately, we cannot predict whether it will be in force for the whole time limit (one year) or whether it will be abolished or extended. Given the unpredictable nature of the situation, it is particularly important for both Latvia and the Commission and all Member States to work on finding new markets for agricultural products - and not just agricultural products. To conclude, we are all faced with an active, challenging and serious time in the European Union - the Latvian Presidency of the Council of Europe and other challenges in foreign policy. I believe that together we will be able to agree on many important issues and work closely together to address issues that are important for all of us in order to strengthen security of Latvia, develop the economy, create new jobs and enhance the well-being of citizens. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U32	Thank you. Member of the Association of the Regions of Latvia Dainis Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U33	Excellency! Prime Ministers! Colleagues! I will indeed, as always, respect my tradition and will not try to repeat, because much has already been said by Mrs Silver. But our group will not be in a position, as Mrs Solvita Āboltiņa, who represents the parties, said, critical. Our view will be very supportive and proactive. So our main motive at this point will be to support the thoughts that were... is mentioned in this report and is very good. And let us also propose what we think should be improved. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this report is about what has been done and what has been done... activities in the foreign policy of the country. Let's start with what's done. Unfortunately, quite little, and therefore we propose that in the future these reports also account for the concrete economic benefits Latvia's citizens have brought to Latvia's country's foreign policy in a given year. Mrs Āboltiņa has already mentioned this specifically about milk to China. We would like to hear at least a short description of the contracts concluded in 2014 as they have been and which they have brought to the national economy. Of course, we understand that our participation in international security institutions is active and does not happen without it. And there we are not more or less, so to say, on the agenda directors. That is why we would perhaps propose in future that such reports not be as ambitious as “the Presidency of the Council of the European Union will allow Latvia to shape the European Union agenda, as well as to influence the policy direction of the European Union in line with Latvia’s economic growth goals”. Of course we would like this, but can we do it at the moment? That is a big question. I'm in favour of... Indeed, the words of appreciation for the foreign policy of the Diaspora must be said. We made sure that was what we were doing. And what is related to work with representatives of our Diaspora, especially in the already large capitalist countries, is supportive, but this applies more to those representatives of the Diaspora who left Latvia after 1940. What is the policy of those who left Latvia in the 1990s and leave Latvia every day and every year? We'd like to see... we are also proposing more specific features and plans on this foreign policy issue. The next of the issues we noticed is positive... is a strategy for cooperation with Belarus. It can really feel that the country has an action plan and she's following it. Good or bad, but there's a plan. Reading that we also have a desire to cooperate with Central Asia, Japan, China, Brazil, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, we understand all this. But where is specificness? Our proposal: Maybe we should also have a concrete cooperation plan with the Baltic States at the moment, including with Lithuania, where is the question of how the conflicts regarding the legal proceedings against Latvia regarding airBaltic and Riga Airport will take place? We would like to know what the foreign policy plan is on these issues. Next, which concerns cooperation and diplomacy, which Mr Kalniņš has already mentioned. Indeed, that would be what the Association of the Regions of Latvia would like to see both in our internal and foreign policy. And I think it's pretty funny to listen to two representatives of one power party: one says that the report is broad, comprehensive and the best one heard, and the other says... criticises it and says it is weak. I would, however, call on the power parties to agree on the common foreign policy of a country, because it cannot be that a representative representing the whole country, namely, Mrs Spyker, Chairman of the Saeima, is refusing to meet an ambassador of a country because her party has such a policy. This is diplomacy, and I would also call for this to be introduced as a method of mutual agreement on foreign policy. And I would like to see the President of Latvia, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Speaker of the Saeima speak one thing and it also works on one single plan. And finally. So that we don't always just say something that's bad or good, then I'll say so: Latvia is such a beautiful place for which you can enjoy, and we do it, but Latvia is currently vulnerable. And you, Mr Rinkēvičs, are now one of its main protectors, who must lead our interests in foreign policy. Therefore, I would call not only for the purchase of office buildings for a large amount of money, let's say, in Geneva, as it was last year, but also for a real contribution to the Latvian economy and for the strengthening of borders not with words... because it was not clear whether strengthening its border would result in economic development in border areas, in cooperation with the US and the European Union countries, or whether it would happen when the Chinese Wall was built. I would really call on you to introduce more specificity in this report next time, so that there are less bureaucratic words there. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U34	Thank you. Name: Minister of Defence Raimonds Vejonis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U35	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Excellency! Colleagues! First of all, I thank Mr Rinkēvičs for his report on Latvia's foreign policy. I would like to emphasise that the successful cooperation between people in the fields of defence and foreign affairs has been and will be crucial for many decisions. For the first time in the foreign policy debate, as a defence minister, I spoke almost a year ago - at a time when nobody could yet imagine how much of the security situation in Europe and in the world will change, the political agenda. The intensity of events during the year is only increasing: Crimea, Eastern Ukraine, ISIL, separatistism, terrorist threats in Europe. In such times, the ability and willingness of politicians to find solutions is crucial; it is a huge responsibility to all of us, and also to you, Members of the Saeima. I would compare it with 1991, when we were ready to fight against power, but with wisdom, diplomacy and allies, we managed to regain independence without bloody victims. As a defence minister, I would like to focus on the most important aspects of Latvia's foreign and security synergies. I am sure that we agree that our foreign and security policy must be in the long term interests of our country. I am also convinced that we agree on the common values of Europe - human rights, equality, democracy, the rule of law, freedom of expression - because the common values are the basis for us to be united in our diversity in the European Union, even though we are different national states - each with its national policies, each of them defining our foreign and defence policies, representing and defending the national interests of their countries. That is why we, above all the Saeima and the government, need to clearly define Latvia's national interests and defend them. Maintaining and strengthening Latvia's independence is a key priority. Events in Ukraine have made it harsh that we must quickly draw the right conclusions, take forward-looking decisions and implement policies precisely so that national security and defence are in line with the current and predictable challenges of the future. While planning the Latvian Presidency well before the beginning of the Russian aggression in Ukraine, we identified as a protection priority the need to promote cooperation between the European Union and NATO. The reaction of the Western world to the war in Ukraine proves how powerful results can be achieved if both organisations act in a coordinated manner without duplication of resources and functions. I believe that it is in our interest to promote this division of labour. It is important for Latvia and all other countries of the European Union that the European Union make more effective use of its diplomacy, cooperation mechanisms. The need for these civil instruments is obvious against the backdrop of the crisis in Ukraine. It must be recognised that the current border between internal and external security has become very narrow. As a result, cooperation between civil and military institutions in both Latvia and the European Union as a whole becomes one of the priority tasks. The new term "hybrid threat" now means that military and civilian institutions need to overcome the borders of the restaurants in order to prevent potential threats at source in order to be able to operate effectively in real crises. Our aim is to ensure that potential security threats are understood not only by European defence ministers, but also by the European Commission, which is responsible for areas such as border protection or audiovisual policy. In the context of Ukraine's events, our strategic partnership with the US gains a new dimension. The events of February last year and the rapid reaction of the United States prove that the presence of the United States in Latvia, the Baltic States and Europe is essential and can be decisive. The US has clearly demonstrated in its work that it is ready to honour its promises in promoting security in Latvia and the Baltic regions. We need to strengthen this strategic partnership in the field of security, and at the same time it is essential that our foreign policy in the US develops more widely in the fields of economic cooperation and investment, including strengthening energy security in Latvia. We must be aware that NATO is and will remain the main guarantor of security and defence in Latvia. I would like to emphasise once again: last year NATO Summit in Wales was adopted, I dare to say that the decisions of historical and decisive importance to Latvia as an independent state, defining objectives and tasks for the Alliance as a whole and for each Member State individually, were taken. The consistent implementation of the stated tasks is a task for the national parliaments, governments, defence ministries and armed forces of the Member States and also of Latvia. The Alliance's joint military plans will be approved already in February this year. Some decisions have already been noted - NATO rapid response forces, rotation of allies, increased participation in training, joint command centres. It is important for us, Latvia, that NATO, which aims to ensure the security, independence and territorial integrity of the Member States, is ready to protect the Baltic States. The forces are ready to respond and have the appropriate capabilities. NATO's potential to protect its Member States is a crucial cornerstone of deterrence policy. This is why ensuring the obvious presence of the USA and other allies in our country is one of the most important tasks of Latvia's foreign policy, the implementation of which requires work and resources. We must all understand that this is not just a limited task for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, because NATO is a member state of Latvia and not separate ministries. Together, we must be able to make decisions and implement them with a focus on the objective and achieve this. I would like to use the opportunity to remind you of other historical events, the time when the Estonians, Poles, French and English fought alongside the Latvian strifemen. I would like to remind you that, after the Second World War, people were hiding in the forests of Latvia until the 1950s, waiting for the arrival of allies. Recalling this, my aim is to restore our historical memory of cooperation and support. The Latvian state was created thanks to cooperation and support. It could not be restored without this support after the Second World War, but succeeded in 1991. Once again, being with allies means a common foundation of values for our diversity. Our allies are here because it is crucial for us and important for their safety. Cooperation must always be mutual and we must be aware that the desire of allies to invest in Latvia's defence is directly linked to our own will to do our homework. Until now, Latvia has been actively involved in NATO's collective tasks, and I can say with confidence that the reaction of allies was rapid and adequate last March. We must continue to be active in contributing to the strengthening of collective protection, both through operations, allied training and rapid response. So what do we have to do? We must prove that we are ready to defend Latvia ourselves. The people of Latvia are ready to do so. However, in order for allies to be convinced of our self-defence capabilities, we need to direct adequate funding to develop defence capabilities. I would like to thank the Saeima for the decision to gradually increase the defence budget to 2 per cent of GDP in 2020. Such a decision is a testimony to allies that Latvia takes its security and defence seriously. Our allies have already appreciated this. I assure you that our soldiers appreciate this too. Both expect a consistent implementation of this Decision. Another important task is that we need professional, well-prepared and motivated soldiers. This also means that we need to increase the number of soldiers. As a Minister of Defence, I will appeal to you this year - the Saeima Members, the Commission on Defence, the Interior and the Prevention of Corruption - to take a politically decisive decision and to accept, in the name of national security, an increase of 2 000 soldiers by 2018. The suspension of this decision, which lies behind the bureaucratic reservation that the apparatus for public administration should not be increased, is not far-reaching. The soldiers are not a state apparatus in the current security situation. They are a guarantee of the existence of the state. Our country's security is also based on our people's belief that the country is capable of protecting itself. We need to build our understanding and belief that Latvia, although a small country, should be defended. An example of this is the celebration concluded yesterday in honour of the release of Latgale from the greats in 1920 and reuniting with Latvia. And I would like to refer to the words of the Commander of Latvia, General Pēters Radzins, who stressed that the release of Latgale, victory over huge force and propaganda was possible only thanks to the idea of the national state. Therefore, our knowledge of the country, history, and defence capabilities must serve as the basis for our self-esteem and self-esteem. Dear colleagues, In conclusion. Active foreign policy and coordinated internal policy, public awareness and participation, as well as financial priorities relevant to national interests, are the ones that will ensure Latvia's protection against the current and future security challenges. We all have one goal – to live in a united, secure and peaceful Latvia, a secure and peaceful Europe. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U36	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. In the next debate, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U37	Dear President of the Saeima. Ministers! Colleagues! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Service for working for Europe and the world in such turbulent year 2014. Last year is characterised as a time filled with serious security challenges and geopolitical changes. Events in Ukraine have drawn the world’s attention throughout the year. And there is no doubt that developments in such a nearby European country have been and still remain at the heart of Latvia's foreign policy. There is no denying that the overall security situation in Europe has become more fragile. The issues of the threat level for Latvia and the new Cold War in Europe have unfortunately become a subject that has been regularly discussed. At the same time, however, we can also see clearly that the challenges to European security have brought global attention and the policies pursued by Russia have contributed to widespread condemnation and joint NATO response by implementing collective defence, as well as the presence and visibility of the Alliance for the region. In these circumstances, the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence, established in Latvia last year, is gaining increasing importance. In my opinion, the importance of the word 'allies' should not be called into question at the moment. We clearly see that Latvia's NATO membership has been an absolutely correct geopolitical choice and it is NATO membership that is a guarantee of security for our country. In our foreign policy, much more thought has to be given to strengthening the country's external security, seeking opportunities to deal with the Ukrainian crisis, and making important decisions in relations with Russia. Last year, there has been a significant change in our bilateral and international relations with Russia, which is explained by Russia's policies in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea. In 2014, a number of restrictive measures were introduced against Russia, the only purpose of which was to prevent Russia from aggression in Ukraine and to enforce the principles of international law. At the same time, I would like to stress that in the future, efforts should also be made to find diplomatic solutions in relations with Russia. Recent visits of the Foreign Minister in Kiev and Moscow are positive; this demonstrates Latvia's wish and ability as the Presidency of the European Union to be constructive and to seek solutions through negotiations in such seemingly hopeless political conditions, when the attacks of the Ukrainian army continue daily. At the same time, I call on the Foreign Minister to continue to prioritise diplomatic solutions and avoid making emotional or hasty decisions that cannot contribute to a peaceful settlement of the situation in Ukraine, but can have undesirable consequences for Latvia, our farmers, dairy farmers, people working in the fish processing and transit sectors. The debate on security policy must not forget the threat of terrorism and radical extremism. The events in France, Belgium and elsewhere have reminded us that the issue of terrorism is not only in the Middle East, Africa and other remote regions, but also in Europe. We must not allow this form of aggression to develop, so we must continue to actively support the global fight against terrorism. Dear colleagues, Latvia has continued to maintain close bilateral contacts with the Eastern Partnership and Central Asia countries. In particular, I would like to note the contribution of the President of Latvia to strengthening these relations. This direction of cooperation is also included in the priority issues of our Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I call for this direction of cooperation to be further developed, even after the end of the Latvian Presidency, in order to ensure the further development of these mutually beneficial political and economic contacts. I believe that cooperation with the Eastern Partnership and Central Asia countries should be our long-term foreign policy priority. As far as this cooperation is concerned, I would also like to point out the possibilities of parliamentary diplomacy and political dialogue, and I call on colleagues to make an active use of it. Both our bilateral contacts with the parliaments of other countries and our multilateral dialogue in the various forms and organisations of interparliamentary cooperation are to be noted here. As Head of the Interparliamentary delegation of Latvia in the Union, I would like to note the role of this organisation representing the parliaments of 166 countries around the world. The Union of Inter-Parliaments shall endeavour to contribute to the development of democracy and parliamentary diplomacy in the world by its actions. The common principles developed by the Interparliamentary Union for the support of parliaments shall provide for exchange programmes for the national parliaments of developing countries. The Saeima is also involved in such parliamentary development assistance programmes, with the most active transfer of experience to the already mentioned Eastern Partnership countries - Georgia, Ukraine, Moldova, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Belarus. The Interparliamentary Union and, of course, the Latvian delegation also believe that the implementation and support of the principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, gender equality, economic and social development will continue to develop parliamentary democracy, peace, stability and economic growth in the world. Finally, I would like to wish all those involved in ensuring the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union to be responsible, successful and, of course, durable in the implementation of the first Presidency of our country. I sincerely hope that, in the next foreign policy debate, we will be able to look back on Latvia's successful Presidency of the Council of the European Union, on its achievements in strengthening Europe's competitiveness, the digital agenda and the global role. May all of us succeed! Thank you. ( The Hall is full of hands.) ( The Hall is full of hands.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U38	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U39	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Saeima! Ministers! Foreign policy reports prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been under review at the Saeima for several years. Unfortunately, we cannot be high in mind about the quality of previous years' reports, because in practice it has been proven that the risk assessment provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the position marked by Latvia have been wrong, not to mention earlier reports. For example, in the 2014 Foreign Affairs Report, just less than two months before the Russian troops occupied Crimea, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its report stressed that it supports the introduction of visa-free regime between the European Union and Russia, as well as the extension of cooperation. It is not surprising that, reading such a vision of the future, many companies in recent years have decided to focus their companies only on Russia. The national association has criticised this position in the foreign policy debate of previous years. Since the opening of the foreign policy debate at the Saeima, the National Association has already pointed out that it is necessary to mention the aggressive attempts to create a new empire at the border of Latvia, to which the name of the Eurasian Union has been given, as well as the need to prevent Russia's soft power in Latvia. I will quote two paragraphs from the National Association's last year's position. I quote: "Not the unstable situation in North Africa, but it is Russia's imperial ambitions and aggressive foreign policy that pose the greatest security threat to Latvia and our region as a whole. It is even difficult to list all those many cases where during the last year there is a direct military threat to Latvia's security or direct interference with Latvia's internal policies. Russia's internal policy is only a matter for Russia itself, but we cannot ignore its foreign policy. Russia’s aggressive foreign policy is a threat to our entire region, therefore it would be in Latvia’s interest to take steps to prevent the restoration of the empire and Russia to become a normal European country with which Latvia could build respectful relations.” ( End quoted) If then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had listened to the National Association, then today we would live in a much safer Latvia. This year's report is far closer to reality, but I would like to expect Mr Rinkēvičs to admit that in previous years the position and risk assessment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been at least imprecise, if not erroneous. As I said, this foreign policy report is better than previous years' reports. I appreciate that, even before the debate, the report was improved, following the suggestions made by the Members. However, as in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to stress today that the report presents Latvia's response and does not properly assess the causes of the various developments and does not highlight the long-term direction of our country. I would like to mention an example that appears in a similar format in many places: “In view of the changes in the strategic security environment created by Russian aggression in Ukraine, Latvia’s priority within NATO has been a whole set of measures aimed at further strengthening collective defence and the presence of the Alliance, as well as response capacities in the Baltics.” From the perspective of long-term interests of Latvia, the independent presence of the NATO Alliance in Latvia is necessary (From the deposit of the hall. K. Šadurskis: “Sustainable or Permanent?” )... permanent - regardless of Russia's aggression in Ukraine. In the opinion of the National Alliance, the main challenges to the security of our region remain the same as in previous years: Russian imperial ambitions and aggressive foreign policy represent the greatest security threat to our region. Ukraine is only the next phase of Russian expansion. The first aggressive expansion took place in 2008, when Russian troops attacked Georgia and occupied part of its territory. In view of Russia's desire to expand borders at the expense of neighbouring countries, it is very important that NATO member states bordering Russia have permanent presence in NATO troops to deter Russia from threatening the sovereignty of the member states of the Alliance, including Latvia. In this context, we very much appreciate the actions of the US and other member states of the Alliance, strengthening the security of Latvia. This cooperation must be further developed clearly. I would like to return to the issue of Russia's imperial ambitions. Russia has clearly indicated its desire to re-establish the Russian Empire within the limits that existed before the First World War. We need to understand clearly that the Kremlin is ready to cross the bodies in order to achieve these goals. Today, Russian soldiers are exterminating the lives of Ukrainian soldiers and civilians. Ukrainian occupation is also attended by those people who provided the Baltic occupation 25 years ago. That is why our task is to achieve a strong position for allies on this issue. The democratic world should change its attitude towards Russia's actions and take action accordingly. The freedom of expression adopted in the Western world cannot be applied to the propaganda of the Kremlin's lies; non-governmental organisations financed by the Kremlin's ideologists should not be entitled to freedom of assembly and association. We can argue about the terms, whether Russia is a country that is based on terrorism, whether it is a country that supports terrorism, whether it is in itself an aggressor, but the most important is the principle. If there is no timely action to stop the Kremlin's loyal cells from working, the pseudo-media and the country are not strengthened by physical protection, then Ukraine's similar scenarios may unfortunately recur in Central Asia and Europe. We too need to do a lot of homework. In addition to the above, we need to expand the black list of millions close to the Kremlin who have established their business in Latvia, as well as to review what services the country buys from Russian companies. For example, why the reconstruction of Pļaviņas and Ķegums HES was entrusted to a Russian company owned by a billionaire closer to the Kremlin. And not just that! As early as 2013, the President of Latvia presented him with the Cross of Recognition. Stability and close cooperation between the Baltic and Black Sea countries can significantly undermine Russia's ability to make an expansion towards Europe, so the future of the Baltic States will have a significant impact on Ukraine's and Belarus's future and their ability to safeguard their independence. The Parliament and the Foreign Affairs Commission also have an important role to play in the development of Latvia's foreign policy. The National Association has therefore developed possible priorities of the Saeima Foreign Affairs Commission, which would allow for a more effective implementation of the Government Declaration. We are interested that the Foreign Affairs Commission is not just a place where laws prepared in a hurry of other institutions are approved. In conclusion. Latvia is interested in Russia becoming a normal European country with which Latvia could build respectful relations. I am convinced that the whole of Europe is interested in this development, so that wars and pointless deaths become the past. Thank you. ( Ambitious by the VL-TB/LNNK Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U40	Thank you. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U41	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Your Honorary Minister for Foreign Affairs! Dear Minister for Defence! Excellency! Colleagues! In contrast to the previous speaker, I would like to express my sincere thanks not only to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also to the entire Latvian Foreign Service not only for this huge and valuable report, but for every work you have done, every working day and every day. And as every year, several foreign policy researchers have also mentioned this. This report, which we are listening to here in the Saeima, is in fact the best available public overview of Latvia's current foreign policy, and I join in such an assessment. In this report, we see the minister's own perspective, the assessment that has been made. Here, in the Saeima, we are debating how to continue to work together in the hand. That is why I would also like to emphasise in my speech the importance of the parliamentary dimension of foreign policy, not only because, as part of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the Saeima holds a number of important events this year, but also because Members of the Saeima, as representatives delegated by the whole parliament, participate in the work of several parliamentary assemblies, including the Council of Europe, OSCE, NATO, Baltic and Interparliamentary Union Parliamentary Assembly. As you have entrusted me with the task of chairing the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I will talk about this too. Next week, the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will hold its first session in its new composition. Colleagues from all six parliamentary groups will participate in the resolution of a number of important issues. The agenda includes both the report by the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, Nils Muižnieks, on the humanitarian situation of Ukrainian refugees and displaced persons, the debate on the current urgency of the terrorist attacks in Paris, and the decision on the way forward for the mandate of the parliamentary delegation of the Russian Federation. I would remind you that, due to the occupation and annexation of Crimea by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Russian delegation has been deprived of the right to vote during the April part-session last year, as well as its representatives from all the leading bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Russian delegation was denied the right to vote at the sittings of the Parliamentary Assembly by the end of 2014. In its resolution, the Parliamentary Assembly stated: "The Assembly strongly condemns the Russian military aggression and the following annexation by Crimea, which is a clear violation of international law, including the Charter of the United Nations, the Helsinki Act and the Council of Europe framework norms." None of the arguments put forward by the Russian Federation to justify its actions are true. The referendum in Crimea was unconstitutional. As a result, the illegal annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation has no legal consequences and the Council of Europe does not recognise it. The new parliamentary delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe should therefore continue to work on these issues as well. I would also like to congratulate us on the fact that, in October last year, the UN General Assembly has elected Latvia to the UN Human Rights Council for a period of three years - from 2014 to 2017. And this is the first time that Latvia has been elected to such a council, which is the most important structure of the UN in the field of human rights. We can also translate it into a huge recognition for Latvia's foreign policy course and know-how in the field of human rights protection, because the mandate of the UN Human Rights Council covers the widest range of human rights and human rights - a range of issues that Latvia, fortunately, has no need to face. I support Latvia's key thematic priorities for action in the UN Human Rights Council - this is increasing freedom of expression and the participation of civil society. And it is also planned to continue work on gender equality within the UN Human Rights Council. It is important to address these issues not only in the UN Human Rights Council, but also, of course, during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The events in Paris and now in Belgium have been painfully reminded of the growing problems of terrorism and radical extremism. These problems, of course, require a wide-ranging approach at national, European and global level. The issues of radicalisation of terrorism and extremism have already become priorities of the agenda for our Presidency of the European Union. We are talking here about the need to continue to focus on the causes of terrorism problems outside Europe, particularly in Syria and Iraq, but we cannot also relax within the European Union where coordination is important, the rapid exchange of information between security authorities so that potentially dangerous persons can be identified in good time. Unfortunately, there is still no adoption of the Passenger Name Record Directive, where the problems are also marked in the context of the events in Paris. The fact that a terrorist spouse could leave Europe was possible because of precisely such shortcomings in the exchange of information between them. It is a huge challenge for every legislator - the high standards of human rights protected in Europe - to put on a European framework serving the interests of society in such a way as to match the protection of privacy against public security, as well as freedom of expression or assembly against freedom of consciousness and religion. The events in Paris have made us think once again of the value and importance of freedom of expression. Of course, acts of terrorism are not in themselves related to an attack on freedom of expression, but rather to the establishment of Islamic values or - on the contrary! - as if the various demonstrations that defend Western values, including radical demonstrations against Islam (e.g. PEGIDA demonstrations and other similar demonstrations in Germany and elsewhere), show that freedom of expression is again - today in particular! - must be protected. It is not for nothing that I use the word "repeat" because the dangers of this value constantly make us think about events both abroad and at home. We all know that Latvia has been very active in the efforts of Peter Greste's release over the last year. Ten journalists have been killed in the last five years in the OSCE region, many have been attacked, many have been threatened. This is reflected in a number of reports published by the OSCE and the Council of Europe. The right to freedom of expression can be added to one of the oldest and most important human rights. The fundamental role of freedom of expression in democratic society is constantly recognised in the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, recognising that it forms one of the most important foundations of a democratic society, one of the fundamental conditions for its progress and the development of every human being. The Constitutional Court of Latvia has also stressed that the right to freedom of expression is characterised by a democratic state body and the scope of this right is a democratic society. In particular, the institutions of the European Union... The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union also includes freedom of information and, of course, the expression of this freedom is subject to formalities, conditions and restrictions, which, however, need to be interpreted strictly and which need to be demonstrated convincingly. Dear colleagues, In some cases, it may be necessary to allow restrictions on freedom of expression to protect fundamental rights for society, but when it comes to the borders of freedom of expression, which have employed a number of minds in these days, it should be stressed that the borders of freedom of expression in the legal state are laid down by law and not by force of stabbing. And the right of journalists to carry out their work under safe conditions - without fear of being offended, to become victims of an attack or to be killed - is crucial for the existence of freedom of the press and expression. The attack on the publication of Charlie Hebdo in Paris has shaken the whole world, has shaken Latvia as well, and has reminded us once again that freedom of expression and the press is a value that cannot be taken for granted. They need to be constantly reaffirmed and strengthened. This is why I am particularly pleased that we have heard here from this troupe about the priority role of freedom of expression and media in this year's foreign policy plans. Latvia has always defended these principles in various international fora and this year, as the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, plans to organise a number of international events dedicated to freedom of expression and media, in which I also look forward to the participation of our parliamentarians. From May 2 to 4, the events of UNESCO World Press Freedom Days are planned in Riga, the Eastern Partnership Media Freedom Conference is planned for May 20, as well as the UN Women's Executive Council member... how the Member State intends to organise activities that will focus on the role of women in media and education. Therefore, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues, we all feel truly intuitive that this year will be a difficult year, full of work and challenges, both for the Foreign Minister and for the Foreign Service and for all of us here. And we can each do very, very much, inter alia, in defending freedom of expression, in defending the fundamental values of a democratic state, both at home, in Ukraine, in Russia and in international organisations of which we are a member. And let all of us have the strength to do so! Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity is a circle of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U42	Thank you. The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U43	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Foreign Affairs, Excellency! Colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his accurate and comprehensive report. I also think that it was the best of the foreign reports that have been in the past. While oppositioning to colleagues who might have wanted to see some more precise and quantifiable results there, it has to be said that foreign affairs, diplomacy and mutual relations are not work on the whirlpool, where you can count at the end of the day, how much the details have been tipped out, and you can record a concrete result. Like human relationships, they are immeasurable. Last year seems to have been one of the most simple foreign policy issues, but I am sure this will be much more difficult. It will be a year of challenges, challenges not only for Latvia, but also for the European Union as a whole and, in fact, for the international community as a whole. In my speech, I would like to focus specifically on the economic dimension of foreign affairs, the economic aspects, to be more precise, on international trade and energy. If you think so, it is the economy that is one of the most important factors determining national relations and also various geopolitical events. A small country's economy cannot be imagined without an export base, but we will never be able to sell our products to countries with which we have no good relationship. A wider market, on the other hand, means more sales, more opportunities and faster development. The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Treaty, the so-called TTIP, or, in other words, the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States of America, if it is concluded, will be the world's largest trade agreement in history, which will cover just as much as half of our world economy. On the basis of a study carried out by the European Policy Research Centre, the overall economic impact of the Treaty after its adoption would be significant. The European Union would benefit from an increase in gross domestic product of up to EUR 120 billion, which is, therefore, 0.5 percent of the European Union's gross domestic product. In turn, the United States would receive €95 billion, or 0.4 percent of gross domestic product. So very, very impressive numbers! The main benefits of this agreement are the metalworking, pharmaceutical and food industries. These are sectors where Latvia has what to offer, these are sectors that are very important for Latvia's economy. This agreement would abolish trade levies between the US and the European Union, which account for around 3 percent of total trade. In addition, this would reduce the bureaucracy that hinders trade between Member States. The adoption of this Treaty is in the interests of Latvia, the European Union and the United States and is very important. Undoubtedly, this Treaty is not just an economic treaty. It is also a political signal that the United States and the European Union are strategic partners, reliable partners and allies. This is particularly important in this troubled international climate, when one country redesigns the European map, annexing the territory of another country, and continues to destabilise the situation throughout the region. I therefore call on the Foreign Minister to pay particular attention to this issue. I also ask my fellow Members, who may not be fully satisfied with all the sections of this treaty, to oppose precisely the specific sections and not the adoption of the whole treaty. Another very important issue is energy. Energy today is both an issue of economic competition and of national security. Without energy independence, it is indeed impossible for a country to be independent in various decisions, because, as can be seen from recent developments in our own region, energy can be used as a kind of weapon that has been, and is being, used to manipulate and even threaten. Latvia must be particularly careful and active in this situation, because we must therefore continue to look for new ways of diversifying energy supplies. Oil and gas prices are falling in the world today. This undoubtedly benefits both the Latvian and the European Union's economy, as well as every family. However, this does not change the fact that we are too dependent on one supplier, and I do not want us to put this low oil price under the influence of complacency or winter sleep, and to lose a targeted direction towards alternative gas supplies by sea, through land across Poland from Central Europe, and to think about energy efficiency, because the energy that we do not consume costs us least. I therefore call for our Presidency of the Council of the European Union to be used to further update energy security and diversification issues. It is in Latvia's interest, and I am sure, that the development of the shale gas industry is also in the interest of the European Union as a whole. Of course, at this time of low oil prices, the development of this sector will slow down, but I firmly believe that this sector will play a very important role in the future world energy market. The development of this sector is also most directly dependent on the above-mentioned Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States of America. Finally, I would like to wish the Foreign Minister and the entire Foreign Service endurance, and then you are left to wish this unique experience gained during the Presidency to be preserved and used for the Mondays of Latvia's development. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity is a circle of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U44	Thank you. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U45	Thank you. Thank you, President of the Saeima, for your speech. Thank you to the commission managers. Thank you, too, to all my fellow Members, both for the good words and for the criticisms. But obviously it is time to answer some of the questions and remarks that have been raised here. First of all, I really want to focus on what Mr Kola said. To be honest, I am a little surprised by the other step in this speech, given that we meet very often at the Foreign Affairs Commission and have discussed many issues. First of all, there was no clear position of the European Union towards Russia, and Latvia's position on sanctions was not clear. I do not know what language I could still use and how, let us say more clearly, Latvia fully supports sanctions against the Russian Federation. until the Minsk Accord is implemented. That is more than clear! On Monday, the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union made this equally clear. That is something we could emphasise here once again. I understand the concern that the Embassy in Moscow is cooperating with Russian companies. But understand - where do our embassy get the services necessary for its operation elsewhere? We obviously cannot import one or the other service purely physically. So this is a very strange statement. On terrorist groups in Ukraine. I have already explained that Latvia was one of those who, on 23 July last year, clearly commissioned the Foreign Affairs Council to prepare the necessary materials for the recognition of these two so-called popular republics as terrorist organisations. But this is not just a political issue. There must be legal facts and there must be enough information from Ukraine. This has not yet happened. If we receive - and we have said so to the Ukrainian side - materials, then this is clearly going to move. It is quite strange and incomprehensible that Latvia has not done anything to help Ukraine. For example, Latvia was one of the first countries to treat people. As early as March last year, it welcomed the first 10 victims. There is now the next 10, and we are looking at the possibility of continuing such assistance. This year Latvia will also train 15 Ukrainian students at our university during the special semester, which will be dedicated to European law, European policies. We have done the same last year at the Riga University of Law, helping to prepare Ukrainian experts for work with the European Union. The fight against propaganda even before the Presidency. Well, you see, if we follow more closely the statements and activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then I draw your attention to the fact that, last year, we made it clear at the European Union Foreign Affairs Council that we need to think about creating a single European channel in Russian. As early as 22 November, when writing about the main work of the Presidency in the field of foreign policy - this letter I have written to Federica Mogherini - I pointed out to the High Representative that strategic communication, which, in other words, is the same fight against propaganda, should be on the agenda of the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council. It is also, of course, a good statement that the Central Asian region is not so important, but China and all the other markets are. But what about China? It's time to cross that Central Asia. And finally... Yes, migration issues are very problematic. Yes, I understand, let us say, that this issue will move very, very hard, both during and after our Presidency. However, I would be very cautious when it comes to what we are not talking about yet in the European Union. You are somehow starting to make quotas where these quotas do not yet have to be made. Mrs Silver spoke about this being a boring report - as a basic school textbook. To be honest, listening to Mrs Silver's speech, I have understood that it had to be made even more boring and even simpler. It's funny. Depp. J.Kursīte-Pakule is a public.) First of all, the text “Latvia believes”... I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with generally accepted international practice and also with what is recorded in Latvian law, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs represents the state of Latvia. And our report, our discussions here, also our opinions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in the Committee on European Affairs, where we really had a very good exchange of views, generally constitutes this official position. In future, if you read the statements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example, that Latvia expresses its condolences, Latvia condemns, Latvia believes that we are really speaking on behalf of the country, and this is one of the basic tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On the international coalition against ISIL. What kind of coalition is that, and why are we or are we not part of it? And that requires a decision of the Saeima... The decision of the Saeima is necessary only if Latvia sends its soldiers to the operation in military operations. This is not what we are going to do, but we have politically taken a decision to support this coalition, which has a whole line of countries - both the Western countries and the Arab countries - to combat terrorists, both by controlling financial flows and also by working to improve legislation. On the mission of Afghanistan. The Afghan mission - as it was - ended in 2014. Now we have sent... and in fact we are also preparing additional contingents to train the Afghan armed forces. We can talk a lot about how successful this mission was, and look at drugs, but let us not forget that in 2001, after the terrorist attacks, it was the Taliban... it was actually an Islamic extremist shelter! And in that sense, let's say, this operation was necessary. The fact that Afghanistan still has a very long way to go to normalise the situation (and that is in the hands of the Afghans themselves!) - That's clear. It seemed strange to me that we could not agree on a maritime border with Lithuania and Estonia. Today, for the first time, I learned that we have problems with Estonia in terms of borders. Mrs Silver, we do not have any problems with our neighbour! And I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have a really contract with Lithuania. This agreement has not been ratified in Latvia for various reasons. Currently, Latvia has started negotiations with Lithuania on the drafting of the economic cooperation agreement referred to in Article 4 of the border agreement. This must be in Latvia's interest. Undoubtedly, when these negotiations are concluded, we will come to both the government and, most probably, to the Saeima - just like the Latvian-Russian Treaty - to discuss it and get a mandate. But now the Treaty has been concluded, it has not been ratified, and we know why. For diplomatic missions. Nothing has been heard that we are somewhere or are not together... So I'd like to inform you again... I already had a debate last year or two - but then there was a really different Saeima, so maybe not everyone knows - I marked those strategic directions until 2020 - in which countries we will open embassies. But we already have very good cooperation. For example, the Embassy of Latvia in the United Arab Emirates is together with the Embassy of Denmark. The Embassy of Latvia in Egypt and Azerbaijan is together with the Embassy of Estonia. In Kazakhstan, the consular post of Lithuania is located on the premises of the Embassy of Latvia. Until now, our representatives have worked in the premises of the Lithuanian Embassy in Moldova. We have a special conclusion of the Baltic-Nordic Memorandum on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in the provision of diplomatic missions, let us say. As a result, these works are already being done. Mr. Krauze asked the OECD if the economy would recover the funds... I think yes, because membership in this organisation means a completely different, better, credit rating... the possibility, let us say, of borrowing for large projects too much, much less interest. It is also, of course, an opportunity, but it is largely up to us - to use that intellectual resources for our education systems, for the promotion of our economy. And, of course, there are also very, very strong elements of anti-corruption policy here. And I can only say that in the negotiation process we will undoubtedly stand up for Latvia's interests. I would also like to say thank you very much to Mr Liepiņš for the many ideas and proposals. Indeed, many of them are remarkable. After every debate, we are, in fact, very careful in analysing and taking into account many proposals from both the position and the opposition and trying to make each of the next reports as well as the Olympic Games better than the previous one. So I hope that we will have an even more qualitative discussion in the 2016 debate. But when it comes to the Presidency and economic benefit, I would like to emphasise only two things... actually three things. If we succeed - and we work on this - and there we need the support of 28.. 27 other countries - the approval of the Juncker plan both in Parliament and in the Council, as well as the mobilisation of these funds for the major economic projects of both the European Union and Latvia... If we find ourselves in the Council of Europe in March... I am sorry, the digital agenda will be adopted in June, as we see, if, in March, we succeed in moving towards the Energy Union, then I think these will also be factors that promote the Latvian economy. I would like to say here that I would probably have about the first reactions that have been made here, too, a lot of things to say, but I really want to listen to this debate and come back for another moment at the platform to respond to the next proposals - both ideas and criticisms. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U46	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Lewis, will you have a debate for 6-7 minutes? ( From the drug depot. A.Lejiņš: “It will not be enough! Let's go... !” It's laughter.) So there is a proposal for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name for reading the result to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary. But before that, Mr. Kalniņš's statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U47	I ask all members of the Foreign Affairs Commission to come to the Commission's premises at 13.00. We will have a short extraordinary sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U48	Mr. Curry, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U49	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Guntis Belēvičs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Andris Buiķis, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Andrejs Klementjevs, Romanas Mežeckis, Nikita Niikiforovs, Sergejs Potapkins, Romualds Gamuks, Kārlis Sergeants, Veiko Spolitis, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns, Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U50	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U51	Dear colleagues, I call on you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the debate. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U52	Minister! Colleagues! And if there are still ambassadors in the hall, I turn to them as well... Excellency! I think I'll be speaking for ten minutes, but even if I exceeded a minute, please allow...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U53	If Members agree. ( From the drug: “Accompanied! Agree!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U54	Let me quote two paragraphs from Henry Kissinger’s new book World Order at the outset. It's available in our library, just out. ( From the drug: “How much is it?” ) In the library we can borrow it for free... In this book, the author tries to answer the question of what world will look like in the future when new powers and centers of power emerge. What place will Europe and America have in the new world order? Well, those Members who have “remained” from the 10th Saeima, remember that I raised this (Show the image for the hall.) ... Remember... Yeah... And you can still see the sign of the issue where Iran is... And remember, at that time, we were waiting for a war between America and Iran... It's almost, it's about to be a war. But what do we see today? It is very likely that the Iranian issue will be resolved. And, of course, it will have a major impact on all international policies. I would like to say that this map was marked by one think tank in Norway, when this century crossed the threshold of the previous century. And then we only had a debate in all foreign policy institutes, and we were called... The directors of European institutes were called in Washington, where America told us that in 50 years' time, America would no longer be the world's largest economic power. Well, that jumped us well... That is why this paragraph has already arisen, and that is also what I will now talk about. So, two quotations. But before I read those quotes, I would like to say that it was the think tank that came up with this: the new geopolitical map, and the wise countries that financially support their research institutes. Illustrated No. 1. Kissinger says: “If the United States were to be separated from Europe politically, economically and also in terms of defence, it would become an island on the coast of Asia, but Europe as such could only become an extension to Asia and the Middle East.” Illustrated No.2. This is what President Roosevelt said in his dispute with U.S. Ambassador William Bulita in Moscow. He says: “Bil, I do not dispute your facts, I do not dispute the logic of your judgments. I just have the feeling that Stalin isn't such a man. I think I'm gonna give him everything I can and I won't ask for anything in front of him, I think I'm gonna have to make a lunatic bond... “ (in Latvian it means “due to the responsibilities of the state”).... "he will not try to annex anything and work for the world of democracy and peace." The first quote is about not losing the leading position of America and Europe in a multipolar world system, because every power wants to play the first violin. The second quote is the lesson we can learn in our relations with the so-called new Russia, but it is fully combined with the challenge expressed in the first quote. During the Latvian Presidency, there will be much to lay foundations for the fate that will find Europe in the next decade. If we are to lay the foundations of a chasm, then our house of the European Union can begin to be molded and glowed. It will be difficult to defend our national interests on a solid basis. This means, in particular, that the European Union must conclude a free trade agreement with the United States under the Obama Presidency, the so-called TTIP, which means "Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership". Only when this is done will we be able to turn to China and open negotiations on a possible free trade agreement between the European Union and China. And those who listened carefully to what Mr Obama said in his speech to the American people last night could read between rows that he thought about it. He is concerned that China can impose lower standards on American workers than they have today. It could be thought that the United States has a certain advantage: not to become isolated. In the case of TTIP, they also negotiate with 11 countries of Asia, North and South America on another free trade agreement, called the Trans-Sea Partnership. This partnership includes the world's third largest economy, Japan. But the European Union has already started negotiations with Tokyo on a free trade agreement between the European Union and Japan. In addition, negotiations have just been concluded in the European Union on a free trade agreement with Canada, which is also a partner in the Pacific negotiations. So you see that there are already different contracts. At the same time, China, which does not participate in the Trans-Mediterranean Partnership negotiations, has noticed the conclusion of free trade agreements with Australia and New Zealand, which still belong to that Pacific negotiating group. As you can see, development is dynamic, but one thing is clear: the free trade agreement with the US is the biggest one that can be, and it will bring together the two most powerful political and economic blocks in the world. Together, they account for almost half of the world's GDP. It is a completely new type of trade agreement that will set standards for other similar contracts with third parties. Each block can no longer achieve this on its own. It is, likes us or doesn't like the new, emerging reality of the world. The second reality is that the emerging and existing new centres of power - China, India, Brazil, Turkey - do not join the Western sanctions... they didn't join the West's sanctions... imposing sanctions on Russia for a gross aggression against Ukraine. As far as the Eastern countries are concerned, this position is generally confusing, because it is the Asian region that is characterised by severe territorial disputes, from which we in Europe are protected thanks to our European Union and NATO. Perhaps someone knows this precedent is beneficial in Ukraine. It is worth remembering the act of the chitleric Germany, which annexed the Sudetia area from Czechoslovakia. This was actually the cause of World War II, and in 1938 there was much in common with what Putin Russia did with Crimea. But if China and India reached favourable conditions for the purchase of gas and oil after the national Putin visits, then this has happened thanks precisely to the sanctions of the West, including Japan, Australia, New Zealand and Canada. The great Asian giants know this: China and India. It is also our advantage, provided that the European Union and the US are able to conclude a mutually advantageous free trade agreement. Thank you for your attention. ( A Fraction’s Unity is a circle of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U55	Thank you. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U56	Dear colleagues, Undoubtedly, after the terrorist act in Paris, the issue of internal security has become topical in Latvia as well. Therefore, I would like to express my opinion on the annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the planned activities and to supplement the Minister's idea that in 2015, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and other institutions, will make an additional effort to strengthen public cohesion. Of course, the threat of terrorism in Latvia is very low, but there is a certain risk of the import of terrorism, because with our entry into Latvia, any terrorist living in the territory of the European Union has become incomparably simpler. And when I talk about the internal security of Latvia and strengthening the cohesion of society, I see several problems, but today I will mention only two: firstly, a divided Latvian society, whose representatives have different historical memories, and secondly, some fluffy officials, who will be shouting and smashing the society. When talking about the first problem, I would like to note that Latvia's advantage is the centuries-long tradition of coexistence and cooperation between different ethnic, linguistic and religious groups. However, tragic historical events still give rise to conflicting perceptions among Latvian citizens belonging to different ethnic groups. Unfortunately, in order to strengthen their influence, some politicians use or even promote the emotional moods created by historical insults and prejudices. I consider such a policy to be unacceptable and even dangerous for Latvia. I think that trust between people belonging to different groups is a prerequisite for public cohesion policy. Therefore, cohesion policy must be based on respect for the interests, characteristics and historical experience of the various groups in society. Public cohesion policy can only be considered successful if Latvians do not know about Latvian cultural development opportunities and if minorities are convinced of the real concerns of the Latvian Government and the Saeima to preserve their languages and cultures. In my opinion, strengthening the principle of multicultural education in schools is an important prerequisite for the integration of society, creating a natural and favourable environment in the education system. In my opinion, such guarantees will help to better define Latvia's priorities and strengthen the internal security of the country. It is important that civil society's views are not only heard but also taken into account. When it comes to the second problem, it should be said that there is indeed a low level of terrorist threats in Latvia, but to make it even less, politicians do not have to get caught up with slogans, they do not have to get caught up in society, but we have to offer a series of concrete measures that could contribute to the cohesion of Latvian citizens. In my opinion, the risks are posed by those Latvian politicians who will smell with slogans, thus provoke society and create absolutely unnecessary tensions. In general, I believe that it is unacceptable for foreign policy to become a hostage of internal policy and to serve the narrow interests of individual parties, while at the same time harming the interests of Latvia's state. Thank you for your attention. ( A PASSENGER’S WORDER)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U57	Thank you. Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U58	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Excellency! Colleagues! Minister! I am listening to my colleagues and I think that I have understood correctly that we are looking at and assessing the report of the Foreign Minister, but we are less expressing our views on foreign policy issues, because there was a report here. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the report. It is very broad and raises the question: how is competence shared between ministries in the executive power, in the Cabinet of Ministers, when Latvia is a member of the European Union and NATO? The National Security Law defines the competences of certain ministries dealing with physical security issues. Firstly, Article 15 defines the competences of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs implements, coordinates and analyses - implements the foreign security policy of Latvia, coordinates the conclusion of international agreements binding on Latvia in the field of national security and analyses foreign external and internal policies. Point 4.1 of the Foreign Ministry's Statute provides for the development of the foreign policy of the country. Thus, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs both develops and implements the foreign security policy of the country and coordinates the development of the state position and representation of interests in NATO as provided for in paragraph 5.5. My comment. The report does not make it clear how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs exercises its competences under Article 14 of the National Security Law. Secondly, a common understanding of key words should be agreed. For example, the word "security" is used in a report with different meanings. The second page of the report quotes: “In response to developments in Europe, Latvia’s foreign policy in 2014 focused on strengthening national security, ensuring NATO’s presence in our region and supporting Ukraine.” The following issues are addressed under the heading ‘Security at national, regional and global levels’: the security situation in Europe and collective protection, the Common Security and Defence Policy and regional security and the fight against terrorism. Note: I agree with the Minister of Defence's proposal to strengthen the National Armed Forces. When speaking here, he made this proposal to increase the professional defence force by 2 000 soldiers. But now my comment. For the purposes of this section, “security” means only physical security or protection, although “security and protection” is used in places. The National Security Act and the concept of National Security mean both economic, political, social and protection areas. Or about 25 percent, a quarter, of the population leaving Latvia and whether the fact that mortality in Latvia exceeds the birth rate does not affect safety at national level, as its title calls it? Finally. Existing legislation was relatively good in the 20th century, but it is very bad or not working at all in the 21st century. For example, we all know the events in Georgia in 2008 and the events in 2014 and now in Ukraine. In this context, questions: What has been done and what is planned to be done in this area? How independent can Latvia shape its policies in that or other sector, in particular, in foreign policy? Thank you. ( Ambitious by the VL-TB/LNNK Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U59	Thank you. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U60	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll talk about the Diaspora. The Diaspora report identifies the place between the four foreign policy priorities and also the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, which I chair, the Diaspora is one of the four priorities. And I have had the opportunity, for several years, to see the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in practice or to cooperate on matters of the Diaspora, and I am grateful and appreciate this cooperation in a very positive way. I will refrain from complimenting on many specific cases, from listing them, and that is not a lack of gratitude from my side if I ask: what can we improve, what can we improve, what can we develop on this issue? Because yes, there is a large number of Latvians living outside Latvia today, but it would not be a problem, it would be even opportunities... But the problem is the small number of Latvians in Latvia, and the trend is becoming, of course, quite critical, especially given that young people will still face the challenge of going to the world, gaining experience and education, and it would not be reasonable to deny it. This means that emigration will continue to do so. And, as we hear today, we will have an immigration threat from other regions. And therefore, the policy of the Diaspora must in no way distract us from the goal of returning countrymen to Latvia (of course, not losing out as the widest goal of strengthening ties with nation states). And, of course, this is primarily related to Latvia's economic situation, to Latvia's global competitiveness. But it will always be important for us that anyone who is ready to return to Latvia knows every opportunity to return today or tomorrow. And it's already a question of quality information that reaches as many countrymen as possible abroad, and it's a practical question of cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, other ministries and the Saeima. Two figures from the studies on diaspora. First: 10-15 percent are ready to return to certain conditions in the near future. 10-15 percent - it wouldn't be so little. But the critical question is: how many times does this readiness to return to Latvia with opportunities for them to work fully and live in Latvia? And more importantly, how many know about this coincidence, about these opportunities and desire? And the second: 15 percent of the compatriots abroad are associated with the Diaspora organizations. And here I will say: only 15 percent! - in view of the fact that, at present, in our policy of the Diaspora, the country's ties with the compatriots abroad are mainly carried out directly through the Diaspora organisations. So a large part of the people abroad do not access this information, either they do not reach it or they reach it very fragmentedly and directly. So, what do you do? It is a question of a high quality and wide-ranging informational relationship with the Diaspora, and this is the area that can be developed and improved so that everyone knows about every opportunity to return to Latvia - here and now. And there is a need for our joint cooperation. As I remember a song that came across the ocean in the long run across the Soviets: “We are, unfortunately, as little as we are, and more can’t be.” Right? But there was an optimistic solution in the song: “But I’m a piece, and that’s something!” At that time, it was unanimous and self-sufficient. Today I want to add: so that success and wisdom are our allies! Thank you. ( Ambitious by the VL-TB/LNNK Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U61	Thank you. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U62	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Your Honorary Minister! Colleagues! Several days ago, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia announced that one of Latvia's foreign policy priorities during the Presidency would be to update the crime topic of totalitarian regimes and restore historical justice. I think that many in Latvia have long been waiting for the country to put these issues at the forefront. As a Member for only a few months, I have already received a number of requests addressed to me from the oppressed to help them restore their historical justice during their lifetime. I have consulted with lawyers, and the conclusion has always been one: until there is no political will, there will be no outcome! I am pleased that this political will has appeared. Compensations for Latvian citizens, who slaved in Gulag camps, are a truly priority issue, which can no longer be postponed given the respectable age of these people. Also priority is the satisfaction of parents whose sons were unlawfully called into the USSR army and died there or were maimed. The restoration of historical justice definitely also includes the return of cultural and historical values, films and archives exported from Latvia. At the opening of the Presidency, the Latvian Foreign Minister had already had an opportunity to meet his Russian colleague, and I believe that all these issues were also discussed. The fact that it did not appear to the public anywhere is, I accept, just such a tactical step or a diplomatic strategy. In any case, the main thing is that these historical justice issues are at last in the attention and priority list of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Presidency also provides an excellent opportunity to rebut the lies and inventions that Russia often spreads about our country with great resonance. The last example was the recent joint press conference of Latvian and Russian foreign ministers, in which Lavrov once again claimed that Latvian non-citizens were made second-class people, despite the fact that he voted for Latvia's independence in a referendum. The world's attention to this press conference was an excellent opportunity to say once and for all that it is a lie. In the survey of March 3, 1991 on the independence of Latvia, 411 thousand people voted against. At the referendum of 17 March 1991, almost half a million voted against independence. The historians and researchers who analysed these data clearly conclude that the majority of Russian-speaking immigrants voted against and not in favour. Nevertheless, Russia has been making this myth for years and is lying our country. Unfortunately, Latvia has so far failed to respond adequately. The judge of the European Court of Human Rights Ziemele says today “The Latvian News”: “We have not even had a unified state position and a concrete plan to rebut or simply tell what has happened in Latvia and is happening; that Russian-speaking people are not confused with the historical Russian minority and minority rights in general.” The fact that Latvia does not refer to the Saeima Declaration on the occupation of Latvia, to the Geneva Convention and to other documents that clearly indicate the illegal origin of non-citizens today in Latvia poses serious problems for the representatives of Latvia in international courts and other fora where it is necessary to defend the interests of our country. I hope that the Presidency of the European Union will have a strong impetus for our foreign reserve to change this. Finally, a few words about the position of Latvia and the European Union with regard to Ukraine. Both me and many others are increasingly concerned by the attempts of the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, Mogherini, who seems to be aimed at de facto legalising the annexation of Crimea, i.e. lifting sanctions without involving the end of the Crimean occupation. Whatever, Latvia, which has been occupied and annexed for 50 years, should best understand how Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians now feel in the Russian occupied peninsula. We should be the first to stand by the European Union for linking the sanctions imposed on Russia with the occupation of Crimea. The layout proposed by the European Union in eastern Ukraine is also of concern. As we know, this layout is based on a request for the Minsk agreement. However, it is also known that the parties to the war interpret this agreement in various ways, particularly as regards the elections and the self-government of the territories after the end of the hostilities. Therefore, Europe must not allow the repeat of the Russian referendum farce to take place also in Eastern Ukraine, leaving these territories under Russian control in principle, albeit formally in Ukraine. Latvia, as the EU Presidency, must make it clear to Russia and the international community that such a solution will not be acceptable. In 1994, Western countries guaranteed the territorial integrity of Ukraine, but were unable to fulfil this guarantee. This is, of course, shameful. However, it would be even more shameful if the West were now to yield to the aggressor and to lift the sanctions. It must be understood that such a move will ultimately not bring any profit or peace. Thank you. ( Ambitious by the VL-TB/LNNK Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U63	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U64	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! My presentation is facilitated by the fact that much has already been said here. I would perhaps just like to repeat what journalist Tom Ostrovskis wrote yesterday on TVNET's news portal - that Latvia can miss the opportunity to be heard in its Presidency. That we can, he writes, really shake out his chance. And now it looks like it! We're afraid to ask not... as mentioned here, not just compensation; we have the fear of meeting with Lavrov to ask even to return archives. We have the fear of asking for what the latter fought for by Will Lācis - to ask for the return of the log library, which had already been recorded in the 1920 peace agreement and which Russia still retains and has not given to us. We have the fear of talking about the promotion of repatriation and the conclusion of the treaty that we have in our declaration on the condemnation of totalitarian Communism crimes. We have the fear of concluding an agreement - as has been said there - with the agreement of the Cabinet of Ministers with the Russian Cabinet on providing material assistance to those people who want to return to their ethnic homeland. We are afraid that if we left a hundred thousand people, Latvia's economy would collapse. Well, I would like to remind you, Minister, that there are only 1.34 million inhabitants in Estonia, but for Estonia, exports to one person exceed 12 000 euros! Latvian exports are only a little larger than 6 thousand euros. And we saw these loyal ones (footsteps!) Citizens with this chain of restaurants Gan Bei behaved here in Latvia... Is this large number of colonists in Latvia who do not recognise neither Latvian nor Latvian laws and hope that Latvia will return in some way to the empire - is it not one of the reasons why we have smaller achievements than Estonia and Lithuania? So we behave, so to say, on good and political correction. When the question is rightly asked - also yesterday, meeting with the Foreign Minister - why did Latvia not sign a call for action against Russian propaganda in Lithuania, Estonia, Denmark and Great Britain, because we have suffered the most and there are the greatest mass affected, then we get the answer that we do not need to express our opinion that we are only coordinators and that we will do much more in our Latvian cunning. What we can do we could well see in the Sunday programme that Lattelecom takes care of in the retransmission... retransmission to Lattelecom under the supervision of NEPLP. So there was another show after Vesti, the Solovyova autocast, where the calls for bombing objects on Ukrainian territory were constantly public. Any violation of the law takes place, and nothing happens! We are still supporting Lattelecom companies with the support of the state, so we are hosting these cream propaganda programmes in Latvia. We say, yes, we are playing a huge role here in the Presidency! But it must be said that, in fact, its main role remains with the High Representative of the European Union, Mrs Mogherini. And this is where we're going to go again. So Mrs Mogherini's proposal was to allocate sanctions - that we will apply extremely strict sanctions while the occupation of Eastern Ukraine and the occupation of Crimea as such will be carried out in the second round. And you know what the horrors will be there? The European Union will no longer be able to export wine from Crimea to Isabella from time to time, and which will not be there yet... And Latvia must pretend that we agree to this as a small country, that we cannot do anything. And it would not be political to say that this quiet reconciliation with this occupation of Crimea is actually taking place in the hope that this matter will be settled somewhere. Does anyone really believe in Latvia that High Commissioner Mogherini will show some principle if her diplomatic stand for foreign affairs was about 6 months in Italy when she was appointed Commissioner to have some sort of counterweight, say, a strong, firm politician in Tusk? Does anyone really believe that when they come from the Communist Youth Association and receive a Friendly Order from Russia, this high representative will be extremely interested in the principle of combating the occupation of Crimea, if she accepts a person related to Gazprom as her press secretary? As you know, the husband of her press secretary is working for Gazprom. Then it is extremely strange that Latvia seems to be reconciliation and does not express its views or as the Presidency does not propose that sanctions in the case of the occupation of Crimea should be as strict as those in the case of the occupation of eastern Ukraine. It has just been reported that Russia has begun to be extremely heavy with heavy armaments, tanks, and that Russia has already taken about 500 square kilometres from the territory of Ukraine following the so-called Minsk Accord. There is also an attack on Mariupole and more than 1,200 people have fallen. What, then, is this Minsk agreement that we were talking about there? Member of the Government of Ukraine, Minister of the Interior Arsen Awakov writes: “The Minsk Accord is nothing more than a lie where, in the interests of Russia, a territory similar to South Ossetia and Transnistria is frozen for many years.” So Latvia, as a small country, should also pretend that the Minsk Agreement is very good and that Russia is not fighting there directly because it does not name Russia as an aggressor? There's a war between separatists? But you see every day that Eastern Ukraine is shot with heavy weapons, thousands of charges are used. And it comes out that we have to believe that these heavy weapons, charges overnight are being restored, say, by ordinary people, coal miners or pensioners. Well, it is clear that these sanitary convoys are constantly carrying arms and that it is a pure Russian aggression as such. I think our Presidency... and I also agree with those journalists who say that we are a small country and that we have suffered from this occupation ourselves, and above all we should avoid hypocrisy. In our foreign policy concept, too, the Minister has recorded common European values. European values could not be double, pretending, lying. We should, in any case, avoid this and say it clearly and lightly. By the way, the third declaration accepted by the Saeima is about Latvian legioners in the Second World War. We avoided once again because this declaration states that we must defend the honour and dignity of Latvian Legioners, prevent the violation of the honour and dignity of Legioners both in Latvia and abroad. How our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, meeting with Lavrov, who once again criticises the rebirth of fascism... How then do we defend the honour and respect of these Latvian legioners? And we see that Ukraine is in fact defending the whole of Europe in this way. And then who in Latvia, without legionists, defended these Orders that were invaded, robbed, killed and expelled people? Thus, the Legionarian War in More and Kurzeme allowed many Latvians to escape because for several weeks they delayed the Red Army invasion in Riga, - allowed hundreds of thousands of Latvians to escape, who would certainly be destroyed or killed in camps. And what is our gratitude to these legions? We allow us to say that, you know, on 16 March we must not go to the Freedom Monument! Is that not hypocrisy and duality for the Presidency?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And the last one is about moral values. We are, of course, in favour of freedom of expression and of the press. In 2001, Rozenberg, editor of the magazine Kapitāls, was dismissed for one cartoon he allegedly protested against, and because of the irony of fate, the French Embassy was also in the number of protesters! So we too can have different morals. On the one hand, we are in favour of freedom of expression and, on the other hand, calls for new articles on various expressions to be introduced in criminal law will be intensified at all times. Either we have that freedom of expression or we do not have that freedom of expression... Don't let it come like that French magazine says that a cartoonist who drew up Sarkozy's son came out of work immediately - that he was allowed to draw one cartoon! I hope that we have enough time and that our Foreign Ministry, however, as I said, will, as representatives of a small country will fight this hypocrisy and duality, and that, to a certain extent, these European values will indeed be preserved. Thank you for your attention. ( Ambitious by the VL-TB/LNNK Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U65	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U66	Sir, Sir, Dear Members, Dear Members of the Committee. I admit that foreign ministers of other European Union Member States can envy Latvia's foreign reserve, which now has a high level of competence in the context of the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as well as the colleagues who are lucky to find a rare and complex case in practice, which both requires a great deal of specialist professionalism and provides great opportunities for the development of real professionalism. And this rare and complex case of world politics is undoubtedly a Ukrainian hub in which, apart from Ukraine itself, the interests of almost the world's leading geopolitical vectors - Russia, the largest Member States of the European Union and the European Union as a whole, as well as the interests of the United States of America, are intertwined. If Crimea's annexation were to happen, so to say, in a bare place, without reason and context, then this case would be simpler. However, Crimea is just one of the threads in this node, one of the facts next to the other facts of the conflict. All wars end not when the war ends, but when the representatives of the countries that have won the war gather and agree on the new world order, they adopt the rules of procedure. Thus the nations acted after the Middle Ages, an agreement reached in Versailles after the end of World War I and in Yalta after the end of World War II. However, at the end of the Cold War, such a meeting has not taken place and such rules have not been adopted, perhaps because the transatlantic solidarity countries considered that another member of the Cold War had disappeared at all and is not what should be counted. This position was wrong, however, because the Communist China could hardly be considered lost in the Cold War, because it was already clear that Russia, like other countries, remains in the interests of its geopolitical security. Following the Cold War aggression in Iraq, the bombing of Yugoslavia, the separation of Kosovo from Yugoslavia without the consent of the central government of Belgrade, and the violation of Georgia's territorial integrity became possible erroneous assumptions. And Crimea is also a part of this chain. This year it is 40 years since the Helsinki Accord was signed. This anniversary could be a great reason to do what was not done after the end of the Cold War - to hold the second Helsinki Peace Conference to take place in Riga and to review the ten well-known international political principles that would rule out the emergence of conflicts in Europe. The intention to position Latvia in Europe as a bridge between the West and the East has long been rejected, and this can be understood because the bridge does not belong to either side of the coast. Tilt exists in itself and is really independent and sovereign. However, no shore can live without a bridge, as it is the bridge that provides the interface between the two shores, so it is the goal of both shores to manage the bridge. However, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union creates great opportunities for Latvia to influence events in Europe and become a bridge, without weakening our commitment to NATO. Your arsenal, Mr. Rinkēvičs, now has a golden bullet. Your personal and state secretary, Mr Pildegovičs, depends on Latvia's actions: it will be wise to take advantage of the unique possibilities offered to Latvia in its history to raise the authority of our country or the alien mistakes that have already been made in reproductions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in all countries is the intellectual elite of public administration. Make you also have enough character to apply this resource! And I wish you and all those present, that Riga will become a place in the world where agreement will be reached between all parties who have interests in the conflict in Ukraine. And Latvia will enter into history with the Riga Peace Pact, which will unite the world. Good luck, Minister. ( A PASSENGER’S WORDER)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U67	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U68	Colleagues! Ladies! Oh, my God! Excellency! Mr Kirstein has already said that very much has been said here, so we should not repeat what has already been said. However, Minister, I have one wish, because I have had the honour of listening to all this debate, even before, when foreign affairs has been generally spoken about. So the question of cooperation between the Baltic States. That was a sad question already. I would like to say that it is "by large" for us already good cooperation between the Baltic States. And the position on such very important issues is also as if it were the same. But in principle, if we speak so generally about unity - not in political terms, but in the content of this word, this... ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “And the harmony!” ), yes, of course, I think it's a limp for us. And what I have seen about and with my colleagues is that when we work at the European Parliamentary Assembly, when we meet together in the Baltic States, we are initially talking one thing, as if it were good. And one example for me was clear: our Estonian neighbours said that they would never let one thing happen, but when the moment came when it was necessary to decide and vote, our neighbours regrettably voted the opposite, for which I was shocked that this was the case. That's why... this issue of cooperation between the Baltic States... I am not talking about some kind of remote region where we need... I think we have to find... I understand that in some way we are competing with each other. But at the moment, there is a situation where we need to leave all the differences and to be united and coherent. For freedom of expression. I absolutely agree with what has been said about freedom of expression - that freedom of expression, freedom of the press, is a huge benefit in Europe and that it should never be lost. But I think that freedom of expression also has another side - a huge responsibility. And we often remember that first half, but that other side, unfortunately, we sometimes forget that the word is also the responsibility... about what I'm saying. And I think it's a great responsibility, in particular, to tell an official who represents one country or another. And in this case, I would like to say that terrorism - it's just terrible! And these people, of course, have to be punished, and they have to fight terrorism. But we can't have a religion that many people have -- they're not terrorists! - is very close, just like every one of us has our own religion, which we recognize... And if someone starts operating it not in the way he needs... I am not talking about terrorists who are under the cover of this religion, but I stress that many people who are not terrorists... The fact that we're trying them too... to increase the number of people who are hostile, say, against one another or against another - that is, I think criminally. And thank God that, at the last time, as I have read in the international press, the big countries are also starting to discuss this side - that before we say a word, we must be very careful whether we are insulting someone, let us say another person. It seems to me that a wise person is not the one causing the conflict, but the one able to anticipate the conflict and prevent the conflict. A little bit - a few more words - I would like to say about the experts... on experts and political scientists, and so on, and so on. Ten years ago, the press wrote on this subject and asked political experts: "Is there a possibility of a conflict in Europe in such a classic expression - with guns, guns, automatics and something else?" He said: “No! You know, it could only be, say, atomic... Let's say this kind of conflict, but it wouldn't happen, let's say, in Europe." I want to talk about experts. We need experts, we need forecasting. You know, extrasensors are very popular at the end of the day. Maybe we could attract some political scientists, that is extrasensus, who could somehow predict something forward... ( Merry laughter.) Wherever the television program is turned on - there's extrasense! He determines criminals, he determines who's there... Maybe you could attract these extrasensus, and then we know in advance what to do. The Presidency. As for the fact that we are going to make a wonderful Presidency - let's go, let's respect it, television will work, microphones will work - I am sure it will be perfect. For 99.9 percent - it will simply be perfect! I just want to see, let's say, that part of its content, too, of its Presidency... what I've already said here... to tell us that we have been able to put something into this Presidency to Latvia... Well, maybe it's not the best example, but I want to compare it with a knife: it's not a knife in the fog, it's a knife with needles, it's not a skinned needle. Let Latvia have needles during the Presidency! Finally, I would like to thank the Minister. I still say this to you, as I did in previous times. And thank you to your diplomatic corps, which is doing a huge amount of work with little resources. Thank you for your attention. ( THE Unity of the ZZS and the fact that the Group is one of its members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U69	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U70	On a case-by-case basis, I would like to ask for permission to speak for up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U71	Do Members agree that Mr Dolgopolov brings together both speeches for 10 and 5 minutes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U72	I'm trying to be more laconic.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U74	Thank you. The High Saeima! We're left! At the start of the speech, I would like to make one comment to Mr Schnores. This replica does not concern foreign policy debates, as did the problem he has spoken about. That is the problem of non-citizens. The fact that this problem exists also results from the fact that it was raised today, that it was raised yesterday and the night before and that it will be culprit tomorrow and the day after. But the solutions can be different, and this is a separate issue and a separate subject for negotiation. Naturally, you can follow our Estonian neighbours, you can look for specific local options, but the problem is. And I repeat that it will have to be dealt with once again. It is not a hot coup d'état when it comes to what we are discussing today. I am pleased with Mr Rinkēvičs because, to be honest, for the first time I met a practice that someone was working... The existing minister receives so many words of thanks, compliments, and I think that the absolute majority of them is deserved because he has shown and proved that he is a man of thought. I myself read very many wise phrases and very nice words in the report too, but with that I would like to complete the complimentary part as well and move on to perhaps tar drops. The first point I would like to draw attention to is that there are very many fragmented moments in the report, very many problems have been mentioned, but these touches are too gentle, and there are also no possible patterns of solutions. I would like to illustrate this with a few examples. Well, the first thing I would like to say and note in the report is the relationship with Belarus: here are positive trends that we will continue to monitor closely what is happening there, but I would like to remind you that the presidential elections are approaching Belarus. The previous presidential elections caused a whole package of various sanctions, different actions - partially expropriated, partially thoughtful. How will this situation look before and after the elections, this seems to me to be a serious issue which should not only think about how to observe it, but also what to do in this case. The second point I would like to make. Let us say that the report notes the visits of Central Asian countries, and that high-ranking visits, which undoubtedly play a role, but can hardly be called a particularly important contribution to economic development, because, on the one hand, the geographical factor that plays the key role here must not be forgotten either. On the other hand, I recall literally two days ago what Mr Andra Sprūds said was that the contribution to the development of the economy from these visits was hardly greater than the cost of these visits. There are things that are much more serious. We are talking about migration problems, we are talking about external migration, which is linked to a number of external factors. But this problem could in principle be formulated as the movement of people across the borders of the European Union and within the European Union. This is one problem, and this problem is also causing some internal contradictions within the European Union. It affects all the countries of the European Union and it affects the country of Latvia very directly and very painfully. So, we want it or we don't want it, but it's a priority. And I think that, following the banking crisis, the European Union will face the need to deal with this matter in a constructive way as well, not only to take care of the protection of external borders. The third moment, perhaps not mentioned at all today. We are talking about the fact that foreign policy must, however, also contribute to economic development, economic development, and give new impetus to their development. One example: Last June, the European Central Bank set the deposit rate at a negative rate of less than 0.2 per cent for commercial banks. What does that mean? This means that bank owners have to pay for the bank's holding of funds. The reaction on the part of the banks was absolutely contrary to what those implementing these rules had to do. That is, in the third quarter of last year, investment... credit - I'm sorry! - the amount of new loans granted by Latvian banks has decreased by 22 percent compared to the same period in the previous year. As you remember very well, commercial banks were united, resisting the programme developed by the government and adopted by the Saeima. I am referring here to mortgage loans for new families guaranteed by the state. So, what should be the foreign policy response to these things? Should or should this measure not be assessed as such? And maybe there would be a need for an appropriate response. Today, Mr. Leiens encouraged me to use some quotes as well. I'm going to quote one statement from a book whose title I'm going to give you a little later. It says: "Free from sentiments, foreign policy means that in the new decade the president must clearly and coldly follow the most important, most dangerous enemies, and then create coalitions that could destroy them. This recent approach means avoiding the entire system created by the Cold War, which brought together various unions, institutes as NATO, as the International Monetary Fund and the United Nations.” What do you think of those who have written those words? These words have not been written by Putin's adviser, they have been written by the famous American political scientist George Fredman in his book “The Next Ten Years,” which is the year 2011-2021. It seems to me that there is a substance for reflection about the fact that there is no sentiment in politics, but there is interest. It is very important to follow this. When it comes to foreign policy, naturally, it is very important not only to describe the problems as such, but also to try to create an atmosphere where these problems can be more easily and effectively addressed. And here one of the fundamental issues is the external atmosphere in which we live and in which we are moving forward, namely the future of the European Union. The same Fredman wrote the following: “This union... “ ( He talks about the European Union)... “ has been built as a free-trade area and remains a free-trade area without modifying as a multinational country, which could be the largest player on the world stage. After all, we can say that there is European bureaucracy, but there is no European country." This is perhaps a very theoretical issue, but in principle it is a outline of the way we should choose when we are talking about European integration projects and the direction of European integration, because without it it it will be very difficult to resolve the things that we have already talked about today - the same issue as the so-called Transatlantic Treaty, because it is obvious that different countries have different interests. The largest countries in the Treaty wins, but the smaller countries will lose, just as was the case with the liberalisation of the banking sphere, and so on. So here is also a substance for reflection, but also for the design of a model, so that optimal solutions can be achieved. And finally. It seems to me that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should take a greater responsibility and a greater role in coordinating the activities of all our representations in Brussels, because working within the European Affairs Commission is very often in situations where we need to reconcile the respective position of Latvia on the relevant issues literally at the last moment, at the breakfast table... In fact, we are doing this in the evening, but in the morning ministers are already trying to defend this position within the European Union. In the European Union, these processes do not happen and are not planned as we plan here. It is not a rare case, let us say, that the Saeima is also trying, as a matter of urgency, to introduce one or the other standard into legislation in accordance with the requirements of European Union regulations. Regulations - I would like to say again! - have been created and become long and in the course of long negotiations. I therefore think that the role played today by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in coordinating its respective positions would be enhanced, also taking responsibility for improving the administrative work of our representations and those of our institutions dealing with the problems of the European Union on the ground. To be honest, I will not say that this is the best report to date in the Saeima's practice, but undoubtedly it creates a certain amount of substance for reflection and undoubtedly a great deal of material for further action. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S WORDER)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U75	Thank you. The name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U76	Yes, colleagues, I wanted to help the Foreign Minister and also respond to some of the criticisms that came from this troupe. Firstly, perhaps about what is at all this foreign policy report and why he came up, let me tell colleagues who are in this house for the first time and who have used the words of this tribunal (as Mr Kirštein) that we have the concept of foreign policy. We had the concept of foreign policy until we decided that foreign policy was dynamic and changing and that we should be able to respond to each of these things. That is why there is this report by the Foreign Minister, when Members then have the opportunity to come and express their vision and that of their group on how we use foreign policy in practice. The other thing is about numbers that seem to be not there, practical benefits, and other such things. Well, there's no foreign policy bookkeeping, and never the report of the Foreign Minister will contain any specific figures and benefits that can be measured accountingly... these benefits, which are in foreign policy. However, the most important thing is that we ensure that we have the arrangements in our country in which we want to live. And I would also like to remind you that we have chosen to belong to European values and not only to Europe geographically - we have chosen to belong to its set of values, including democracy, human rights and also freedom of expression. But also to make it that Rail Baltica we don't now suddenly... clear how much it will cost and what benefits it will bring... This was a surprise to me, because I look at the Rail Baltica project not only as an economic project in which we, as a Member State of the European Union, will also be able to use European Union funds to develop our infrastructure. I look at Rail Baltica first of all as a geopolitical benefit, which will strengthen the fact that we are a country of the European Union and that this train will not be used by foreign tanks or by foreign wagons will not bring any strangers. That is why I think it is very strange to question it from this platform. One more thing about freedom and fear. Freedom of expression - it's not... It's not the same thing. I would never be a sign of equality between the fact that freedom of expression is a incitement to hatred, the calling of others. Just like democracy, it's not lenient. Democracy is a reconciliation of views, democracy is the most complex form of public administration, but democracy is the most human-friendly form of public administration. And we must never forget that here in Parliament and put a sign of equality between democracy and lenientness. For fear. Well, you can... someone may be afraid of something. I am afraid that we can lose our country with our own actions, with our own speeches. I'm afraid we'd stay alone. I am afraid that, in some situation, we would, as a result of a war against Russia and request the withdrawal of Commissioner Mogherini, and then... we could stay alone at that point, show something. And I'm afraid we can only run loud, but we can't do something with our works. And this applies to all those who said, “Something has not been done!” Mr Chair, it is at least strange to say to the legislators that legislation does not match something. We are legislators and we have the right to influence foreign policy. We have been given authority by the people. We have been given the powers of the people, including the powers to pursue a foreign policy that is acceptable to the majority of society, to pursue a foreign policy that also brings economic benefits to us, and which ensures that we are all convinced of our own security and of the safety and tomorrow of our children. So, before we criticise what has not been done, let us look at ourselves whether each of us has done what he has been able to do! If we haven't done yet, let's get to work! ( A Fraction’s Unity is a circle of Members.) ( A Fraction’s Unity is a circle of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U77	Thank you. I closed the debate. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U78	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Members, honourable Members, I will first give you some answers to the questions or remarks that have already been made, and then I will give you very short closing words. I would like to touch at this point on a number of questions that have been asked here or on the problems that have been raised here. First. Mr Chair said that the laws of the 20th century were not working well in the 21st century. I fully agree with that. And that is why it is to a large extent a task for both the government and Parliament - to respond to the situation that we are experiencing. Very soon, the Saeima will see amendments to the Criminal Law that have been developed in the context of the increase in terrorist threats. It is necessary to bring Latvian laws into line with the current situation. Thank you to Mr Latkovska for the good words about the policy of the Diaspora. In this respect, I would like to say that I am really pleased that we are working very well with the responsible Saeima Commission, as well as with the government - with the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Science. I think that we have already managed to achieve a form of cooperation in which we really deal very effectively with many issues concerning both culture, education and the maintenance of links with our citizens. The fact is that we are really dealing with these issues effectively. And I must also say that this policy is, in my opinion, adequately financed. I can say thank you very much for this: thank you for understanding both the Ministry of Finance, the Government and Parliament as a whole. We are well aware that our first and main task right now is to keep Latvian nationals, Latvian people living outside Latvia in contact with Latvia (to be some form of association, let us say, sports competitions and, of course, choirs, dance collectives, or, let's say, some other form of format!) , at the same time providing all the consular measures that the country of Latvia provides to its nationals, from the registration of children to the exchange of citizens' passports - and so on, and so on. What are the directions in which we should work more? In my opinion, however, we should work more and more actively so that educational materials, let us say different methodological materials, and teachers would be more accessible in many places where Latvians live, where Latvian people live and where it is really interesting to send children to Sunday schools. In this respect, special mention could be made of Great Britain, Ireland, Germany and Norway. So we still have a lot to do. The main thing is to keep this link and then, of course, also to work towards making our economic situation so that people are ready to return, because many really want to return. But there are, of course, many reasons why not. Mr Schnores has mentioned here that he is pleased that historical issues have reached priority. I would like to say that our explanation of history has always been on the agenda of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as has the fight against various, different, let us say, unfavourable opinions from Latvia. In various organisations - the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe - we often have discussions with the Russian Ambassador, and literally very recently we were unable to reconcile the exhibition of the sadly famous Mr Djukov UNESCO. We were ready to work together to be a quality exhibition... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also organises seminars for diplomats, who are accredited, on various issues, as it fights against the falsification of history and the interpretation of the history of Latvia in our Embassy, our ambassadors outside Latvia. That's how it works. Here has already been mentioned earlier about Crimean Tatars. I would like to remind you that Latvia was one of the first countries to make it clear about them, both in the European Union and in the OSCE. And I, too, have personally urged the OSCE High Commissioner, I have spoken about this at the OSCE Ministerial Meeting and at the UN Human Rights Council. The issue of the protection of Crimean Tatars will be high on our agenda, so here I cannot agree that we have done little in some way, but, of course, we are faced with a certain unwillingness of international institutions to raise these issues, so here we need to create a broad coalition with other Member States of the European Union. And we will do it in various international fora. Mr. Kirštein, I didn't really understand how it would be if we sent all the non-citizens out? So, for us, will that export be the same as in Estonia? If this is an interesting economic policy, then I would perhaps leave it to economic experts for discussion. I am really pleased that some new innovative ideas appear in every debate in the Saeima, but, you know, I think this is the main problem of our economy. And now in connection with the Minsk Agreement. You see, this is an agreement signed by both Ukraine, Russia and the so-called representatives of Luhansk and Doņecka. This is, in fact, the only agreement that also includes Russia's signature. We don't have better models right now. And we will probably not be able to do more for Ukraine itself than Ukraine can do now in the direction of all these processes. Therefore, however bad the agreement - and it seems to each other - is the only one that could normalise the situation in the east of Ukraine right now. There is also quite a lot of talk about the High Representative for Foreign Affairs - Mrs Mogherini. However, I would like to say that, above all, the task of the High Representative is to coordinate the views of all 28 Member States. Yes, Latvia, like many other Member States, was not all acceptable in the reflection document that was submitted for discussion in the EU Foreign Affairs Council. That is why it is a reflection document that encourages discussion rather than draft decisions. And as both the Presidency and the future Member State of the European Union, let us speak out loud, clear and understandable on matters that are of principle. Mr Pimenov recommended the conclusion of the Riga Peace Pact. I would very much like to hope that, during our Presidency, the situation in the east of Ukraine will improve to such an extent that we can really talk about stabilisation, but unfortunately, the news that we receive, even while this parliamentary debate is taking place, is not too good. The cooperation with the Baltic countries mentioned by Mr Berzins and the fact that both unity and reconciliation are not always so uniform and coherent between us. You see, it often happens - less on political issues, but more on many practical issues - that we compete with each other. It's a reality! At the same time, there are many important issues - even now the Eastern Partnership, the situation in Ukraine, security policy - where I think there is no doubt about our coordination and unity as the Baltic States. Here we, all countries, see the situation very, very similar. The individual cases mentioned by Mr Dolgopolova, such as the presidential elections in Belarus... It was not the election itself that was a problem, but that it was followed by a very brutal, violent repression of demonstrations. We very much want to hope that it is here, in the dialogue that we are proposing, that perhaps one another's issue, one another's problem, which would otherwise be in Belarus itself, could be eliminated. We have a plan to strengthen cooperation with Belarus, including, as I have already mentioned in my speech, to strengthen, say, these general human, general political values and rights. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot in any way affect the European Central Bank; it has never been the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here are other instruments - we have the Bank of Latvia, we have the Ministry of Finance. I know that colleagues certainly work here. Finally, on positions, their alignment, the greater coordinating role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I know that... and for us too, sometimes in the government as well as in the ministry, it is not really pleasant to prepare the positions or documents of the last moment. But be aware that, often, the discussions taking place within the European Union and the preparation of these decisions, no matter how slowly and in order, as we may, European bureaucracy is working, are really also taking place with some rattles. And we will really try to do everything to make our positions in the European Affairs Commission more timely. But I also call for sometimes to count on the reality in which we live. Finally, I would really like to say a great deal of thanks to all those who took part in the debate. 12.In the Saeima, this was the first debate on foreign policy. I think they were quite interesting and active. A lot of good words have been said - thank you for them. There was a lot of criticism: thank you also to all the critics. We will try to take many proposals into account. There are proposals that... I'm already commenting... which we do not consider to be justified or critical. And what I would like to say is that 2015 will be a very, very difficult year in the world, in Europe and also in Latvia. Both the challenges facing our security and the challenges facing Latvia as a Presidency will be very serious in general. I think that this year will be as difficult, a challenge-rich as last year. I therefore very much hope that our very good cooperation with the President of Latvia, the Speaker of the Saeima, the Saeima in general, the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers, ministers will continue and that together we will be able to meet these challenges. I really thank you very much and I hope that, already in the 2016 debate, we will be able to look back on both our Presidency and our new foreign policy objectives, including ambitious foreign policy objectives. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U79	I thank Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs for his report, for his extensive comments and answers to Members' questions. Thank you also to the Minister of Defence, Mr Vējonis, for taking part in the Saeima sitting today, and also for his comments. Consequently, the Foreign Minister's annual report on the work done and the planned activities of the country on foreign policy and European Union issues should be considered. Before proceeding with the parliamentary session, proposals for amendments to the agenda of the sitting shall be considered. The Saeima Bureau has received six proposals for amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for changes to the agenda of today's meeting and it will include a draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law on Immigration (No.24/Lp12). Are there any objections to Members? ( From a political group, ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members have reservations. Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote on the inclusion of the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the agenda of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No.24/Lp11) on the agenda of today's sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - no, for - 15. Consequently, the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” to be included on the agenda of the sittings. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. On the other hand, the Foreign Affairs Commission asks for the draft law on the extension of the European Cooperation State Plan Charter to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the meeting “Amending the Responsible Commission for the Draft Law on Microbusiness Tax” (No 118/Lp12)”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the draft decision is excluded from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Members Liepiņš, Kaimiņš, Ruks, Kleinberga, Viļums, Šics and others urge to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the election of the Member Ivars Laisveras to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the progress of the sale process of the state-owned 75% of the state-owned Citadele Bank’s shares, the criteria for setting the sale prices and the deadline for the resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sales process”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission is asking for the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” (No 24/Lp12) to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members... I'm sorry! I am sorry, the amendments tabled are already on the Bureau's agenda. Thus Members Mūrniece, Āboltiņa, Gaidis Berzins, Brigmanis, Dauge, Lībiņa-Egnere and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law Amending the Criminal Law the reports of the Bureau. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. It's time for a break. We'll continue the sitting after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U80	Dear Members, Currently not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Guntis Belēvičs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Andris Buiķis, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Andrejs Klementjevs, Dainis Liepiņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Nikita Nikiforovs, Sergejs Potapkins, Romualds Gamuks, Kārlis Sergeants, Veiko Spolitis, Juris Šulcs, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns, Ivars Zariņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U81	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U82	Colleagues! I invite you to take seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting! The next item is the Bureau reports. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by Member Sergeant, Līdaka, Putra, Trupovnieks and Vectirāns be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U83	Hello, dear colleagues! I will speak on behalf of my colleague, Karl Sergeant. He is also the author of the bill, but unfortunately he is on a foreign mission today, so I will speak. Amendments to the law provide for liability of private and legal persons for the deliberate distortion of car odometer readings. The fraudulent replacement of the car's journey, by its reduction, unduly increases the sales price of the car and creates a false impression of its true state of technology. This in turn leads to increased operational hazard. The change of odometer readings is also used to circumvent car leasing rules and to obtain more favourable insurance conditions. The EU directive already provides that by 2018, all Member States have to ensure control and responsibility in legislation for changing odometer readings. In recent years, the Road Safety Directorate has carried out vehicle off-road controls during its first registration and every year through roadworthiness tests and information is publicly available on the CSDD website. In an emergency, the car owner can also turn to an authorised service and carry out this odometer inspection there. Changes to the law found in case of fraud will allow you to turn to the Consumer Rights Protection Centre with a requirement to declare the car purchase and sale transaction invalid. On the other hand, addressing law enforcement agencies will result in the imposition of a penalty. ( From the drug, ‘ Right! ’) “Sergeant’s idea!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U84	Thank you. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Legal Commission, making it responsible? There is no objection. Draft law passed. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on the "Agreement on the extension of the European Cooperation State Plan Charter" presented by the Foreign Affairs Commission be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on. Thank you. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Members Dainis Liepiņš, Arturs Kaimiņš, Jānis Ruks, Nellija Kleinberga, Juris Viļums and others have submitted a draft decision “On the election of the Member Ivars Liberas to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the progress of the sale process of 75% of state-owned Citadele’s shares, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sales process”. No one has applied for a report. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the election of the Member Ivars Freeer in the Parliamentary Commission of Investigation on the progress of the sale process of the state-owned 75% stake in Citadele bank, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for the resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the decision has been made. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". The Foreign Affairs Commission requests that the draft law on the extension of the European Cooperation State Plan Charter be examined at first reading by the Foreign Affairs Commission. In accordance with Rule 86 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Commission is asking to direct the examination of these draft laws at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible and to include it as the first section of the Rule of Procedure on the examination of draft laws. On behalf of the Commission is Oyars Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U85	Thank you. Good afternoon! We work with document No 374. This draft law is related to Latvia's possible participation in the activities of the European Space Agency. In principle, with this draft law, we extend the deadline for signing the Charter of the European Cooperation National Plan until 31 January 2015. With this bill, we do not provide any funds, but only give the government the opportunity to decide to participate in the European Space Agency before 31 January. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this and agreed that this should be led as a matter of urgency, and so on behalf of the Commission I call for support for the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U86	The Commission therefore asked for the relevant draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on an agreement on the extension of the deadline for signing the European Cooperation National Plan. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - no, for - 1. Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U87	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on an agreement on the extension of the deadline for signing the European Cooperation National Plan. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U89	On behalf of the Commission, I ask for a second reading without a re-examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U90	Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U91	I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U92	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on the extension of the deadline for signing the European Cooperation National Plan Charter! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at second, final, final reading is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U93	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U94	The next item is the draft law amending the law on the exchange of name and nationality, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U95	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity”; it has decided to support it and direct it to consideration at the sitting of the Saeima at third reading. We did not receive any proposals within the Commission and therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for this draft law to be supported at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U96	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U98	The next item is the draft law on the return to the state of real estate property transferred to the Public Council of the People's Front Museum, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U99	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has received one proposal for this draft law - that is, a proposal from the Legal Bureau - which the Commission has supported. In general, the Commission also supported the third reading of the draft law on the transfer of real estate to the public council of the People's Front Museum. On behalf of the Commission, I therefore ask that the draft law be supported at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U100	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the return of real estate transferred to the State to the Public Council of the People's Front Museum” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U102	The next item is the draft law on Slītere National Park Law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U103	Hello, dear colleagues! So to your attention the bill “Slītere National Park Law”. No proposal has been received by the commission responsible for the third reading. Consequently, I am left to ask you only to vote in favour of this draft law at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U104	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on Slītere National Park Law in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U105	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” (document No 362). Given that no proposal has been tabled in accordance with the procedure laid down by the parliamentary roll of order for the third reading of the draft law, please support the draft law at third, final reading on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U106	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Gunārs Rusiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U107	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! In its meeting of January 14, this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention has discussed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” for the second reading and has received two proposals. Proposal No 1 is a proposal from the Minister of the Interior, Rihards Kozlovska, who was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U109	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U111	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at second reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U113	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 30 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U114	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 30 January this year. Thank you. The next item on the agenda is the draft law “On recognition of the law “On compensation in cases of violation of customs regulations and tax laws” as valid”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U115	Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission listened to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the fact that the law “On remuneration of the submitter of goods in cases of violations of customs regulations and tax laws” is in fact not applied, as natural persons both do not report and show the property specified by the law. Consequently, the Ministry of Finance considers that in order to reduce the number of laws it would be appropriate to declare this law null and void. After hearing the arguments of the Ministry of Finance, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission agreed to this, so on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U116	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “On recognition of violations of customs regulations and tax laws of the law “On compensation of the submitter of property in cases of violation of customs regulations and tax laws” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U117	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 27 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U118	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 27 January this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U119	Thus, the amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees” are related to the implementation of the Law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States on the Improvement of International Tax Obligations and the Law on the Implementation of Tax Obligations of Foreign Accounts (FATCA)” already adopted at the autumn session. And this draft law sets out the responsible authority, which will be responsible for transferring information to the responsible authorities of the United States of America, i.e. the State Revenue Service, as well as the order, which requires financial institutions established in Latvia to communicate information about the accounts of the citizens of the United States of America in these institutions. And since, according to our contractual obligations, the information has to be provided already in September of this year, this means that in May, June, financial institutions have to provide this information already to the State Revenue Service. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I ask for urgency to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U120	The Commission therefore requests that the relevant draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U121	On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U122	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading and second reading...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U123	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading - January 27, 2015 and the discussion at the second reading of the Saeima - January 29, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U124	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading is 27 January and the meeting of the Saeima - 29 January this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. The Commission has encouraged this to be recognised as a matter of urgency. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U125	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” is also related to this same agreement that I mentioned, which has been concluded between the Republic of Latvia and the United States of America - the agreement on the transfer of foreign account information. In this case, the Credit Institutions Law obliges financial institutions to provide this information to the State Revenue Service in order to comply with the data protection law requirements, whereas the State Revenue Service is therefore entitled to receive this information. And, like the previous draft law, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for urgency to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U126	So, first of all, we must vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U127	On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U128	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U129	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading - January 27, 2015 and the discussion at the second reading of the Saeima - January 29, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U130	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for tabling proposals - 27 January this year, consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 29 January. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U131	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents” at second reading. In total, 14 proposals have been received by the Commission. The proposal is the proposal by Karina Korna and Latkovsky, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, which has been partly supported and included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U132	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U133	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U134	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U135	3. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. This is partly supported and included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U136	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U137	The proposal has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U138	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U139	5. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. This is partly supported by the next proposal - 6...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U140	... is supported. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U141	Proposal No 6 has been approved, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U143	7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partly supported, included in the next proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U144	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U145	9. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Partly supported, included in the next proposal - 10. The Commission's proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U147	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which has received support. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U148	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U149	12. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U150	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U151	13. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Partly supported, included in the next proposal - 14. On the other hand, proposal 14 has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U152	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U153	Consequently, all the proposals have been examined and I call on you, colleagues, to vote in favour of the adoption of the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U154	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U155	We will wait until 5 February for proposals for third reading by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U156	February 5. Members agree with this proposal. Dear colleagues, Before we start looking at the next item on the agenda, we must decide on another possible amendment to the agenda of today's sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for an amendment to the agenda of today's meeting and the inclusion in the draft law drawn up by the same Commission for the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine". Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U157	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”. The Commission has received 22 proposals. I would remind you that some of these proposals and amendments relate to the amendments adopted to the insolvency law, which will enter into force on 1 March this year. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U158	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U159	2 is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which is of a technical nature. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U160	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U161	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office. It is related to the right of an employee under the insolvency law to be released from payment of the insolvency proceedings in whole or in part. And the Commission is in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U163	4. is a proposal from the Legal Office relating to the lodging of an application for family insolvency proceedings. It is important to point out that in the Commission during the discussions, the question was also raised as to whether there is a single deposit of two minimum monthly salaries to be paid, or whether, if so, the applicant has to pay his or her own deposit and his or her own fee. And here a completely established commission pointed out that the purpose in this case was such: if an application for insolvency proceedings is submitted in accordance with Article 133(3) of the Solvency Law, the debtor shall pay with his spouse or a person, who is made up of debtors in a relationship with him or her to the second degree, one deposit in the amount of two minimum monthly salaries and one state fee. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U164	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U165	5. is the proposal of the Legal Office. This is also linked to the previous proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U166	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U167	6. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U168	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U169	7 is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U170	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U171	8. is a editorial proposal by the Legal Office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U172	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U173	9 is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U175	And 10. There is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U176	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U177	11 is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U178	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U179	12. There is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau that has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U180	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U181	13 is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U182	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U183	14 is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U184	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U185	15. and several next proposals are related to amendments to the law “On Judicial Power” adopted some time ago. We know that we do not have an institution like the Senate at the moment, and so there are no senators anymore. And in this case, there are these amendments to clarify terminology in the Civil Procedure Law. So 15. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U186	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U187	The identity is 16. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U188	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U189	17 is also an identical proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U190	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U191	Like 18, which is an identical proposal from the Legal Office, and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U192	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U193	Also 19 years of age. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U194	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U195	20. There is also an identical proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U196	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U197	21, on the other hand, is the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis, which is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U198	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U199	And 22 is a proposal from the Legal Commission that clarifies the entry into force of the draft law. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U200	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U201	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U202	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U203	The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U204	January 30th. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U206	Thank you. The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (registration number 27/Lp12), second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U207	Dear Members, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law before the second reading. A total of 23 proposals were received. The proposal is a proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U208	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U209	The proposal also comes from the Legal Office. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U211	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U212	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U213	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U214	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U215	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U216	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U217	6. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U218	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U219	7. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U220	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U221	8 / 8 - The motion by the Member is moving. This has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U222	Wait, wait! I'm sorry! Let's start a debate. There will be a debate on the name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U223	Dear colleagues, I made 15 proposals. The number may be large, but basically all proposals are related to one article of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code - Article 149.8 There are 27 paragraphs, and I propose that we take a different look at the sanctions contained in that article. Perhaps this number - 149.8 - does not say anything, but the article as such is known, and I think that several people certainly have an interest in this article. This is about speeding... non-compliance with road traffic rules when driving faster than permitted. In the Legal Commission, we worked on this article and, frankly, it was not easy, because there are different views on how best, how better, how to punish it. And it should be borne in mind that there is now a background that some people think that if we change sanctions, there will be no more so many victims, that if we double the penalty, then everything will be fine. Of course, that will not be the case. And this time the question is not what the penalty should be, because we can discuss the scale of it, of course. Both this and the next proposals are conceptual. What does the CSDD offer us? In several cases, the CSDD offers to maintain an alternative, i.e. a penalty can be "from-to-". This is perhaps not bad, but it has to be borne in mind that since last year's decision on penalties has been taken by inspectors. In the past, if an inspector stopped the car, he could accept... decide on a fine not exceeding 100 lats or 140 euros. It is now written that a fine of up to EUR 140 is being imposed by the most recent inspectors, but if simply an inspector, he can decide to impose any penalty. It is proposed to impose different penalties, but the maximum penalty... Now, of course, for a very serious breach (speed exceeded by more than 50 kilometres) the fine is up to EUR 1400, so a very large sum. And, in my opinion, the situation of a fine of between EUR 1000 and EUR 1400 is quite bad, because that means that the car driver can then start to discuss it: "Maybe 1,200, maybe 1100 shouldn't be enough? Oh, maybe it's even smaller at all... ?” All this contributes to corruption, it's not good. This is one problem, but not the only one. It should be borne in mind that everyone has the right to appeal against a decision. And what do people do if, for example, they say “sanction from 200 to 300” and there is a suitable penalty, which is, say, 250? They complain: “Why 250? I have mitigating circumstances. I was going because I had to go... because there are several other facts.’ He explains, and the institution works. I don't know if you know how... the follow-up to such complaints. At first, he writes to the head of the complaint. The chairman shall consider and take a decision. But he goes on to complain to the court about the same case. The Court decides, and again there is a judgment: five six pages. But that's not all. The appeal shall then be lodged with the appeal body. So our court works with such things. What is the nature of my proposal? In my opinion, even if the speed is exceeded, we could create the system that we have in relation to people driving under pressure, namely that it is determined what punishment should be. There are no options for "to-do". If we want to differentiate even further, we can do so, but I suggest that there is either a warning - and then there is only a warning - whether there is a fine, let us say EUR 30, and then only EUR 30, or EUR 100 or EUR 200. Of course, this does not mean that there will be no complaints. There's always going to be! Because people will write that there was a wrong radar or a wrong sign, but at least there will be no complaint that there have been several mitigating circumstances, asking for less punishment. So, in principle, we are now working on the draft law at second reading. We will still discuss the amounts, but I call for support for both this and future proposals. In fact, in this way, you will be able to express your opinion, and I support the fact that the penalty must be specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U224	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U225	Traditionally, I was not going to talk, but there was Andrey's last objection to reducing the penalty if there are mitigating circumstances. And we go out of Andrew's proposal: we assume that there can be no mitigating conditions for a person to be past speed. But I think that most of the people in this room are drivers and they know that there can be a situation where there are mitigating circumstances. And why did I not support this proposal at the Legal Commission? Because without having this differentiation to impose their penalties... various penalties would be imposed accordingly according to how serious this infringement is, Andrew refuses... Member Judin also proposes giving up the warning. ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “You need a warning!” ) So it remains... Thus, all these sanctions remove an out-of-court warning. But, of course, I am calling for the vote now. And our group also has a free vote. But this bill is very important. This is the last draft Saeima law that we took over. What's happening on the roads right now... that 20 people have already died, this makes us adopt this draft law as soon as possible. And the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Ministry of Transport, which is responsible for this draft law, will come to the third reading already with agreed and evaluated proposals. So it is very likely that there will also be changes at this third reading. But it really is everyone's attitude towards whether a street policeman wants to prevent an infringement and therefore suspends us and punishes us, and he has the right, as an official, to make a decision at that time, evaluating all these conditions that have been on the street, or whether he must automatically put in the frame that he is allowed to make only one decision. I'm still... support the fact that we live in a free, democratic country in which a person on the road, an official on the road, has the right to take this decision, which has the right to think, assess and decide after considering all the circumstances.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U226	Thank you. Name to Member Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U227	Yes, sometimes our group Members are debating not only on the party's premises, but also here at the Saeima sitting. However, I really think that this is not a political issue, but it is about how we understand the situation. And as a driver, I also want to be in a situation where you can always ask the policeman: “Well, forgive me, but there are mitigating circumstances here! Please don't be punished, let's talk maybe... “ and so on, and so on. But that's not right! As Members, we need to look differently. When it comes to mitigating circumstances, of course there may also be mitigating circumstances, but we are talking about administrative irregularities. And all these discussions that I run because I can miss something, or because I didn't have time, or because something else happened there... I doubt whether this should be the case when deciding on a penalty. There are cases where it is very important to talk about mitigating or aggravating circumstances and to differentiate between penalties. But in connection with administrative irregularities, I think the system can also be fixed. There is an infringement to pay for, and it does not need to be moralized. Well, in any case, I think colleagues are driving their own vehicles and can decide what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U228	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U229	(The medicines used in the intermediates. Depp. V.Ageshin: “Send him!” ) Dear colleagues! I understand very well the meaning of Mr Judine's proposal, because it would really simplify the process. But on the other hand, we can talk about, of course, mitigating circumstances in the event of an infringement. However, I think it is necessary to leave Latvia in the Code of Administrative Violations because the violations can be very different. The driver can, let's say, exceed the permitted speed by 20 kilometres, but it can be very transparent in the area, it can be close to a cross, it can be in a kindergarten or close to a school... It is important whether it is during the day or at night. So, honourable colleagues, I certainly think that differentiation must be left behind here. And the other point. Of course, it can be irony for mitigating circumstances “I rushed very quickly”, “I argued with my wife”, “I had other troubles”, but there is one very objective mitigating circumstance. You overturn the vehicle in a permitted place and have appreciated your speed that you will overturn it without breaking the permitted speed, but as we know, some good driver, I don't know, knowingly or instinctively... When you overturn him, he's forced the gas pedal himself, and you have to go before the cross, before the bend, before the invisible section of the road... You have to go back to your driving lane. I think that clearly, from the point of view of the road police, if he captures this breach by radar at that time, there will be a mitigating circumstance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U230	Thank you. The debate is closed. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U231	Dear Members, I just want to remind you that we are on proposal 8 and the next 15 proposals will all be the Members' proposals for sanctions in the same article.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U233	So, either alternatives or fixed sanctions. The Commission therefore did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U234	Yeah. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - He's moving the proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 54, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U235	Thank you. 9. - The motion by the Member is moving. This is also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U236	Do Members have objections? Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U237	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U238	Do Members have objections? Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U239	11. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U240	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U241	12. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U242	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U243	13. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U244	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U245	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U246	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U247	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U248	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U249	16. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U250	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U251	17. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U252	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U253	18. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U254	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U255	19. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U256	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U257	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U258	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U259	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U260	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U261	22. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U262	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U263	And finally 23. - The legal commission's proposal. Of course, the commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U264	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U265	Consequently, the Commission's proposal is to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U266	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (with registration number 27) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U267	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals... We propose 23 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U268	February 23rd. Members shall not object. The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (registration number 28), second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U269	So this draft law is also about amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, and the main subject of these amendments is the rights of the owner of the violated property in an administrative violation situation. The Legal Commission has examined the draft law before the second reading. A total of nine proposals were received. Let us see more concretely. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Commission. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U270	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U271	2 is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnačs. This has not been supported by Members as it was incorporated into proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U272	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U273	3. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice and is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U274	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U275	But 4. There is a proposal from the Legal Commission and it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U276	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U277	5. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which the Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U278	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U279	6. is the proposal from the Legal Office, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U280	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U281	7. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U282	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U283	8. is a proposal from the Legal Office and has been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U284	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U285	9. - Legal commission's proposal on the time of the law's entry into force. And it's supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U286	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U287	The Commission is therefore asking for support to be given to this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U288	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (registration number 28) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U289	We propose to submit proposals by 29 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U290	January 29th. Members agree. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U291	Colleagues, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine’ is related to the fight against African swine fever. Last June, the first case of African swine fever in domestic pigs, including wild boar, was detected in Latvia, and the Cabinet declared an emergency situation. In the event of an emergency, FAD officials shall have the opportunity to enter holdings and check for non-registered animals. This exceptional situation was extended for the second time until 1 January 2015. After that date the FAD officials are no longer able to enter and verify that the property does not contain unregistered animals in breach of the rules on housing. We propose to clarify veterinary medicine laws and in the event of outbreaks of epizootic diseases, to allow FMD inspectors to enter private property in order to combat the spread of diseases. In addition, there are still technical amendments to the draft law which clarify the status of the Agricultural Data Centre, which is the maintenance authority of the animal registers, as well as, in agreement with stakeholders, we have clarified the definition of the practice of veterinary medicine. On behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I ask that this draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U292	Thank you. Under the Rules of Procedure, we must first vote in favour of granting urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U293	Please vote in favour of the draft law at first reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U294	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U295	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 27 January, and for the second, final, reading - 5 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U296	So the deadline for tabling proposals - 27 January, final reading - 5 February. Members shall not object. Thank you. The next item is the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No 24/Lp12). On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U297	Colleagues! In its meeting of 20 January, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption decided to ask the Saeima to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals until 10 February. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Why? ” ) Please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U298	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, one Member can speak "for", one can speak "for". Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U299	In line with the request made by the Union of Greens/Farmers, the National Association agrees with the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". At the same time, we point out that in this week's meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, the Security Police indicated that the trade of residence permits poses a significant threat to the security of Latvia. Therefore, we urge not to hesitate with the progress of proposals submitted by the Ministry of the Interior and supported by the Commission. And if a large number of proposals were to be submitted, the commission would be asked to distribute these proposals from the Ministry of the Interior and to move these proposals forward quickly to the Saeima, which would make it possible to prohibit citizens of a particular country from obtaining a residence permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U300	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No 24/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - no, for - 15. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, All items on the agenda have been examined. Before we register, I would like to inform you that today at 17.00 there was a provision for answering Members' questions. But for three questions, three... No, two ministerial replies that ministers are on the mission and written replies will be provided after returning from the mission. Therefore, they cannot be present today for oral replies. As a result, there will be no question-and-answer meeting today. However, a number of new questions have been received from Members. The question of Members Stepanenko, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and other Members to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On public administration contracts for the provision of advisory services” has been received. This question will be referred to the Prime Minister. Members Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Agešina, Arthur Rubika and Tutina question to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On public administration contracts with legal service providers”. This issue will also be referred to the Prime Minister. The question of Members to the Prime Minister has been submitted by Members Elksniņš, Stepanenko, Ivan Klementjevs, Raimonds Rubiks and Mirskis – “On contracts with SIA Auto Blitz”. This issue will also be referred to the Prime Minister. And the question has also been asked to welfare minister Uldis Augums “On National Social Care Centres” by Members Silver, Shimfas, Maya, Platoper, Balodis and Kūtris. This question will be referred to Minister for Welfare Uldis Augulis. Now is the time for registration. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U301	Dear Members, Currently not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Guntis Belēvičs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Andris Buiķis, Lolita Čigāne... is, Andrejs Elksniņš, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Andrejs Klementjevs, Dainis Liepiņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Ināra Mūrniece, Nikita Nikiforovs, Sergejs Potakins, Romualds Ražantuks, Kārlis Sergeants, Veiko Spolitis, Juris Šulcs, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-01-22-PT12-281-U302	Thank you. So I declare the sitting of the Saeima closed on January 22.
