ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the meeting on October 15th. Before considering the agenda for the meeting of the Saeima as approved by the Saeima Bureau, the amendments tabled should be considered. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it draft decision “On approval of Daiga Rezevska as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members of the Saeima Nellija Kleinberga, Dainis Liepiņš, Artuss Kaimiņš, Jānis Ruks and Mārtiņš Šics are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members of the Saeima Inese Laizāne, Armands Krauze, Kārlis Šadurskis, Ritvars Jansons and Raivis Dzintars are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia”. Are there any objections to Members? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the agenda of the sitting to be amended, including the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Occupation Museum of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 19, for - 1. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been amended and included in the draft law. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Application of Educational Forms to Children” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the first and second amendments of the Espoo Convention of 25 February 1991 on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment of 21 May 2003 to the Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment of 25 February 1991” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities” presented by Ritvars Jansons, Edvina Šnores, Einars Cilinska, Imantas Raudnieks and Jānis Dombrava be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Mr. Ritvars Jansons, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U2	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities””, which provides for the establishment of audit committees in the cities of the Republic if there were more than 100 thousand inhabitants on the day of the announcement of elections. The Commission would act in accordance with a statute approved by the Council and would consist of representatives of each political organisation or electoral association represented by the Board, the number of which would be determined as much as possible in proportion to the number of elected members from each political organisation or electoral association. Currently, the law does not make it mandatory for the municipality to set up an audit commission. This may prevent municipalities from fully ensuring the legal and effective treatment of financial resources and assets, especially if the number of citizens, taxpayers, in the city is high and, as a result, a significant budget. It is common practice that in the cities of the Republic, the functions of the audit commission are performed by an audit department, which is part of the executive power and is subordinate to the executive director of the council or the chairperson of the council. This leads to a situation where information is not available to all political forces. One example of this is the Riga City Council, where the Audit and Audit Authority, in accordance with its rules of procedure, is directly subject to the Chairman of the Board. The Chairperson shall appoint and dismiss the Head of Administration. Only Chairman of Riga City Council is entitled to decide which institutions or officials of the City Council are to be presented to internal audit reports, audit acts and audit opinions prepared as a result of audits and thematic inspections. The president also approved the methodology for carrying out the internal audit and drafting the working documents, the work plans to be carried out. It is no wonder that in the so-called nanotechnology case, the fact that Riga Municipality has no documents of origin for the supplied goods to the company “Riga traffic” was discovered in the audit by the State Revenue Service and not by the Riga City Council Audit and Audit Authority. In turn, the State Audit Office found that expenditure on public transport was also attributed to expenditure which has no connection with this field and which is useless and even wasteful. In another Riga municipal company – “Riga House Manager” Ltd. – the State Audit Office has concluded that owners of apartments in Riga are forced to pay illegal activities, waste and negligence of the municipal enterprise, as well as fictitiously employed people. In this context, the Prosecutor General's Office has launched criminal proceedings. Although the Riga City Council has commissioned the Audit and Audit Authority to carry out a financial audit of economic activities in Riga municipality company “Riga House Manager”, due to the authority and method of using the information, there are doubts about the objectivity of the audit results and the availability of information. Taking into account that the activities of the municipal authorities of the Republic are complex and require great responsibility when working with financial resources, the above-mentioned amendments to the law would ensure greater self-control of the municipality over the actions of the municipality, promote the rule of law in its activities. If such amendments are made to the law, then all the political forces of the municipality will be represented in the municipal audit committees as far as possible, thus ensuring the protection of the interests of all residents of the city.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Local Governments” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government” by the Member Ritvars Jansons, Edvina Šnores, Einars Cilinska, Imantas Krādnieks and Jānis Dombrava, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 19, for - 18. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by the Member Nellia Kleinberga, Daiņa Liepiņa, Artusa Neimina, Jānis Ruka and Mārtiņš Šics be referred to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible. ‘ About” Ms Inga Bite, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U4	“One law – one justice for all.” These names are written not only on the wall of the Cabinet of Ministers meeting room, but must be written in the heart of each state official. The immunity of a Member - and in particular of administrative immunity - puts a Member in a special, higher, state than other members of society, because it provides that a Member cannot simply be punished for any offence committed, that this penalty is being extended to a whole rather long procedure, the observance of which imposes an additional administrative burden, particularly for public administrations. In view of this burden, there are often cases in reality and in practice where an official, when he learns that the offender is a Member, says: “Well, well! We will not punish you so that you do not have to complete all these papers, so that you do not write all these applications and do not have to demand this extradition for punishment.” Several international organisations have also expressed their administrative immunity to Members of the Saeima. The international anti-corruption organisation GRECO has pointed out and expressed regret that this administrative immunity still exists in Latvia. The Venice Commission has also recognised that immunity should be limited to the strictest possible extent and should not apply to minor offences for which the penalties imposed cannot have a significant impact on the functioning of Members of Parliament. It is also recognised in law that the provision of Article 30 of the Satversme regarding the fact that a member of the Saeima cannot be imposed administrative penalty without the consent of the Saeima, as well as the practice of its application is contrary to the aim and essence of immunity, and should therefore be abolished. The purpose and nature of the immunity of a Member shall be to protect a Member from unjustified and political interference in the performance of his duties. The purpose and nature of immunity do not protect the Member from administrative or criminal penalties if the offence has occurred and the Member has committed the offence - just as any other person could do. The only argument that has been heard in favour of maintaining immunity is that the people have the right to know their “men”. In particular, when considering the question of Mandates, ethics and application in the commission, when examining the question of the Saeima sitting, it becomes public (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... Thank you. And it becomes known to the general public that this violation has occurred. Yes, this objective is good and correct, and it can be achieved in another way as well, namely by imposing an obligation on the official who is drawing up an administrative violation report to inform the Saeima, the Saeima Mandate, the Commission for Ethics and Applications. And then that commission could decide itself whether or not it is a violation of ethics and whether or not it is a reason for the additional punishment of a Member under the parliamentary roll. But it is not a basis for maintaining these special privileges currently provided for by the Constitution. That is why I am asking you to support the draft law that has been tabled - to support the fact that Members are subject to the same law as any other person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U5	Thank you. Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? ( From the medicine, ‘ Yes! ’ ) Consequently, Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - 19, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. (Applause) The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia” presented by the Member Inese Laizāne, Armands Krauze, Kārlis Šadurska, Ritvars Jansons and Raivjs Dzintārs be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Occupational Museum of Latvia” to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Augusta Brigmanis to grant him unpaid leave on 14 and 15 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Mr Ivan Ribakov, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 15 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Edward Smilten requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 14 and 15 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda draft decision “On approval of Daiga Rezevska as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U6	Dear colleagues, Daiga Rezevska was nominated as a candidate for the office of judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia on a proposal from ten Saeima Members. The draft decision “On approval of Daiga Rezevska as a judge of the Constitutional Court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 7 October of this year. In assessing her knowledge and competence, the members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to confirm Daiga Rezevska as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Judge Daiga Rezevska shall take office in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Daiga Rezevska as a judge of the Constitutional Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. (Applause) On behalf of the Saeima, we welcome Daiga Rezevska! Colleagues! The Saeima Bureau has received a signed application from Member Imants Krādnieks, Inguna Silverba, Raivja Dzintars, Julia Stepanenko, Jānis Tutina, Inga Bites and other Members to amend the agenda of the Saeima today's sitting and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima “On the fulfilment of the obligation under the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima today's sitting? Members have reservations. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima. None of the Members has applied to speak for or against. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision of the Saeima “On the fulfilment of the obligation laid down in the 1963 Vienna Convention “On Consular Relations” on the agenda of the Saeima’s next ordinary sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 44, against - 28, refrains - 8. The decision has therefore been taken: the draft decision is on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda the draft law "Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order", second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We are looking at the draft law "Amendments to the parliamentary order roll" at the second, i.e. at the final reading, because at the last sitting of the Saeima we found this bill urgent. The Saeima Bureau has received a letter from the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia informing that the Association of the Regions of Latvia withdraws its proposals submitted to the draft law. Consequently, Proposal 1-11 has been withdrawn and the table is now being examined by Proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U9	Proposals 17-19, 21 and 22 have also been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U10	Yes, I planned to inform you about this in the course of the bill. Thus, we begin to examine the table contained in the proposal 12 submitted by the Legal Office, which essentially clarifies the wording of the first reading. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U12	As I said, the next one is the proposal made by Member Ivars Zarins. The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U13	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U14	Hello, colleagues! Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to take part in the committee's meeting when this proposal was examined and to explain it myself. As I understood from my fellow Members, people simply abstained on it, expressing their attitude. Then I will explain the substance of this proposal now. The substance of the proposal is very simple. Since there is parliamentary democracy in Latvia, I think that this proposal will be a great opportunity for us to strengthen these principles of parliamentary democracy by providing that, when we here in Parliament, we elect people who will have very important positions for our country, these people should be given the opportunity to speak here before us all, and to tell them how they intend to carry out the duty that we are going to entrust to them. Why do I think this would be important, and why should it be possible for these people? I assume that one of the arguments against this could be this: it is not necessary, because if someone from the leaders of the people wants to listen to this person and find out what he really is going to do, how he intends to carry out his duty, he can meet in groups, in commissions. There is one fundamental difference, you see, why I believe that this should be done: such a hearing should also take place at the Saeima sitting. Because one thing is what this chosen person will tell each individual party somewhere during a culinary or meeting. The second thing is that he will tell all the Members of the Saeima here, in the tributary, when they will have to tell everyone the same story, not every party what they want to hear, and at the same time the whole society will be able to hear it. And, on the other hand, there will be another interesting instrument that can be incorporated through such a hearing... there will be a real reference system. There will be a real system of accountability by which we will be able to measure whether the person we have elected in this post actually fulfils what he has promised or, in fact, he does not meet our expectations on the basis of which we have elected him. And that is why I am calling for this proposal to be supported and this opportunity to be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U15	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U16	Yes, honourable colleagues! Yesterday in the Commission, as Member Zarins said, there was indeed a debate on this proposal, and as Mr Zarins pointed out, this was not a clear rejection. Rather, it was a refusal to adopt an opinion. Knowing that yesterday there was a commission meeting, today is a parliamentary sitting and this is a final reading, I understand that this issue could be reopened. Yesterday it was also noted that all the officials who were appointed by the Saeima were not included here, and the question was also asked whether this could be the case... Perhaps it is correct that this applies to the judiciary. But in any event, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Ivars Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 7, for - 52. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U18	Fourteen. - Mr Zarina's proposal - the Commission did not support it for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U19	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U20	Thank you to the rapporteur for the information. I have withdrawn the rest of my proposals, and I will prepare them for the next round of amendments to the Saeima's order - according to what the Commission wanted to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U21	Thank you. Therefore, proposal 14 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U22	Yeah. And the 15th proposal has also been withdrawn, Mr. Zarins? Yeah? We proceed with the 16th motion tabled by Mr Sergey Dolgopolov, who was not supported by Members in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U23	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U24	Dear colleagues, One point. Unlike a number of other proposals, this proposal has been discussed for a long time and has also been discussed in this high-room. Two points. This is not a new precedent, because there is already such a precedent in the parliamentary order, where it is envisaged that the budget package should be merged into a single package, whether it be the same budget or the laws relating to the additions to the budget. This can include everything, including gender equality, if one cent can be squeezed out of it. This proposal is no innovation! The practice of recent years shows that if a package of draft laws is fragmented or divided into several responsible commissions, the fact is that it slows down the entire process of their examination and creates some contradictions, as no committee except the Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission is defined as a special function of the Saeima. There is nowhere in the statute for commissions, which would indicate any draft law or any matter falling within the exclusive competence of the commission in question. Remember the previous sitting, which had a discussion on one of the draft laws... who is more responsible from the commissions when looking at this issue! I therefore call for this proposal to be supported, despite the fact that we are dealing with a vital issue today - whether or not to be the Secretary-General of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U25	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U26	Yeah. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you a little bit about the Commission's motivation. First. It seems that by putting a rule on draft laws tabled in the parliamentary roll of order on the package, we would actually reduce the right of Members of the Saeima to determine which draft law is to be passed on to the commission. Secondly. It was so important... Well, I'd like to say that it's not a doubt, but an admiration of where this amendment is being tabled, because if... It reads as follows: ‘Complete with Article 81.1 of the law as follows: ‘If a package of draft laws is submitted, the Saeima shall determine one commission to be responsible for all draft laws contained in this package.’ “ Thus, from a legal point of view, Article 81.1 is logically an addition or a derivative or an extension of Article 81. Thus, Article 81 applies only to draft laws submitted to the Saeima in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law on popular voting and law proposal. And so, while acknowledging all the observations that Mr Dolgopolov has just said about supporting this proposal, the question arises: did this proposer really want it only to apply to draft laws tabled in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law on popular voting and the law to be proposed? As I said, the Commission rejected this proposal. The next one is proposals 17 and 18. They have been withdrawn...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U27	Colleagues! Colleagues, wait! We must vote in favour of this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Sergey Dolgopolova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 35, for - 26, for - 35, for - 26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U28	Thank you. The next three proposals have been withdrawn. We shall continue with the 20th motion tabled by Member Vitaly Orlov. The Commission supported this proposal. ( FROM a faction: “Wonderful! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U30	Proposals 21 and 22 have been withdrawn. The last one is the 23rd proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau, which legally clarifies the wording of the first reading, and which the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U32	I therefore ask on behalf of the Commission to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U33	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 20, for - 1. So the draft law at second, final, final reading is supported. The next item is the draft law amending the Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U34	Dear colleagues, Draft law No.350/Lp12 - Amendments to the Criminal Law is under consideration at first reading. The proposal to amend the Criminal Law and to supplement the Chapter on Crime Against the Economy with a new Article 212.1 has been drawn up in the light of the planned amendments to the Sport Law. It is foreseen that the criminal law will determine the responsibility for the manipulation of sport, i.e. actions to influence the performance of sport and the course of competitions. The Legal Commission assessed the proposal in question and supported it. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U35	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U36	October 29th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U37	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 29 October this year. Colleagues! The Bureau of the Saeima informs you that you have received a request from Members Agešin, Shimfa, Silver, Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Bite and other Members to amend the agenda of today's meeting and to include a draft decision on the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to be considered. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( From the medicine, ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. We must therefore decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. One Member may apply to speak 'for', one to 'no'. Members have not applied for a speech. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft decision of the Saeima “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers” in the agenda of the Saeima's next ordinary sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 37, for - 17. Consequently, the draft decision, this own-initiative proposal, has not been included on the agenda for the next sitting. Then we have to decide whether there is a proposal to refer the proposal to one of the commissions. ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis: “No!” ) No such proposal. So the self-sustaining (from the drug: “Yes!” )... The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš. Please turn on the microphone for Elksniņš!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U38	Yes, honourable colleagues! I call for the proposal to be referred to the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U39	Which one?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U40	Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U41	So there is a proposal to refer this own-initiative proposal to the Legal Commission. One Member may speak "for", one Member may speak "no" to the Commission. So none of the Members... Jūlija Stepanenko has applied to discuss the referral of the own-initiative proposal to the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U42	Madam President, Dear colleagues, A few hours later, in the UK, an adoption case will be heard before the London court, by which our citizen, Catherine Brice, will be given permanent adoption to a foreign family. I would like to thank the Parliamentary Commission on Demographic Affairs, which has done a great deal and a great deal of work two days ago. The issue of the removal of our fellow citizens' children from the family has been raised to a completely new level. Indeed, we are not talking at the moment about the reasons why this is happening; they can be completely different and not always entirely responsible for the parents. As far as Britain is concerned, members of Parliament - both the liberal democrat John Hemming and the conservative representative Lucy Allan - have admitted that there are enormous problems in the social services system. But the journalist Sue Reid, who has been investigating family matters for years, is not afraid to call things in the right words: it is a criminal system, and children are cynically marketed as a commodity in foster families, because every family of young children receives about 600 pounds per week and, in the case of adoption, 27 000 pounds. The advanced adoption plan to be implemented by each municipality every year, perhaps someone looks like taking children from lonely, abandoned children under their care, but most often they are children who have been driven away from loving parents, crying for depression, who are placed often in families that take care of other beliefs and other cultural traditions. Whatever the circumstances and circumstances, children are the most affected by such “surgical” interventions. And often the best interests of children are a blessed cover for radical and frightening decisions. Of course, desperate parents are looking for every opportunity to find help - find each other, form groups, communicate with each other and turn to officials. I will only mention two dire circumstances. Our Ambassador was denied the opportunity to communicate with a Latvian child who suffered some time ago in an accident and who is taken care of in a foster family. The child has a head injury, but our ambassador cannot learn about the state of health of the Latvian citizen; moreover, he cannot restore the passport to the Latvian citizen. The ambassador was simply refused! The local government has refused to meet the ambassador. Another pretty - pretty, pretty! - frightening case: all three children were removed from the multi-child family, and the youngest child is being prepared for adoption. Arguments: He is quite young, and so he is well adopted, he will be able to forget about his older brothers, and he will be able to live in a new family. Disgusting violations! When removing children from the family, the British authorities often forget about the obligation to comply with the Vienna Convention and do not notify the Latvian responsible institutions about the forced placement of a Latvian citizen in a foster family. This violation has been recognised, recognised by the court, but still continues. Of course, it is true for those who say that they must live according to the laws of the country where you are, and the parents are indeed to blame in a way for what is happening to their children, but please do not forget that children are suffering! And these children are our citizens, Latvia! And if we don't protect them now ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis: “What?” ) and we will not call for an immediate end to the sale of our children as such puppies, we will not protect our future. May all children return to Latvia and our services appreciate how to live further for our citizens! Thank you. ( From the drug depot. I. Viņķelis: “Break! Just terrible!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U43	Thank you. Members have not applied for more. Please call me! We will vote for handing over the draft decision of the Saeima “On task to the Cabinet of Ministers” to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 33, refraining - 15. Consequently, this own-initiative proposal is considered to be rejected. The next item is the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Vidzeme University College”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U44	Madam President, Honourable Members! We work with law No.313/Lp12 “On Amendments to the Satversme of Vidzeme University College”. The purpose of the draft law is to approve the amendments to the Constitution adopted by the Constitutional Meeting of the University, which would thus ensure continuity of activities of the University, compliance of the Constitution of the University with the legal framework established by the Law on Higher Education, as well as to clarify the issues related to the successful activities of the University and its decision-making bodies and changes of the structure of the University. Currently, the activities of Vidzeme University University are regulated by the Constitution of the University, which was approved by law at the Saeima on 13 December 2007. On 1 August 2011, the law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” entered into force, which introduced several changes to the legal framework of the Law on Higher Education. In view of the above, it was necessary to clarify the Constitution of the University so that the legal framework laid down therein would be in compliance with the legal framework of the Law on Higher Education. It was necessary to clarify the use of certain terms laid down in the Law on Higher Education, to clarify the issues of the Honorary Members of the University, to address the issue of who can withdraw the status of Honorary Member and in what cases. So far, the Constitution of the University has not determined who nominated and withdraws the nominations for the award of the Honorary Doctor's title. The Constitution has not yet established the one whose higher education institution determines the structure of the university's financial resources. Similarly, a department such as a “section” is no longer formed at the university. In its meeting, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science supported these draft laws at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U45	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support of the first reading of the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Vidzeme University! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U46	Submission of proposals for the second reading by 20 October 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U47	So the proposals are due by 20 October this year. Thank you. On the agenda draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U48	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No 282/Lp12) for the second reading. Basically, it is the provision of cross-compliance with four other laws and the Cabinet of Ministers regulations “On Taxes and Fees”. One proposal submitted by the Legal Commission has been received.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U49	Legal Office.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U50	Legal Office and terminology is clarified. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U51	Thus, the first proposal, which is supported by the Commission, is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U52	And please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U54	21 October 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U55	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 21 October this year. On the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Inesis Boķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U56	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration by the Saeima at second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones”. There are a number of proposals. And let's start with proposal 1. 1.The Commission has supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U58	2. - Līdaka's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U59	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U60	3. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Dūklav. This is partly supported and included in proposal 4 drawn up by the Commission responsible. And...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U61	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U62	So...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U63	Members support the proposal, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U64	Yeah, I said. Support, yeah! 5. - the proposal by Mr Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It has been partly supported and has been set up by the Commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U65	Partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U67	Members shall not object. And six. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported and Members support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U68	Members are in favour, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U69	And the Commission calls for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U70	So...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U72	The deadline for tabling proposals for third reading is 29 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U73	Thank you. Proposals are due by 29 October of this year. On the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U74	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has prepared for second reading draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”. No proposals have been received. The Legal Commission is asking to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U75	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U76	The deadline for submitting proposals is October 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U77	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 20 October this year. On the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U78	The Legal Commission of the Saeima has prepared a draft law “Amendment to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” for the second reading. One proposal has been received - the Legal Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U80	The Saeima Legal Commission asks to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U81	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U82	The deadline for submitting proposals is October 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U83	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 20 October of this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda the draft decision “On the admission of Ruslans Nakonečnija to Latvian citizenship for special merits in favour of Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity - Member Ilmārs Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U84	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! On 28 May of this year, the parliamentary Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity received an application from a Ukrainian citizen, born in the city of Mariupole, Doņecka district, Ruslan Nakonečnie, requesting to grant him citizenship for special merits in favour of Latvia. With this application, the Commission also received a letter of recommendation from the Latvian Modern Fifths Federation. Ruslans Nakonečnijs is an internationally known sportsman with high achievements in the modern attire. After receiving a residence permit from 2015, Nakonečnijs has successfully represented Latvia in high-level international competitions. And the highest achievement for Nakonečnija as a Latvian athletes is victory - 1st place, gold medal for Latvia - at the World Cup stage in Egypt this March. Dear Members, I will draw your attention to the fact that this achievement is the greatest testimony to the achievements already made by Ruslan Nakonečnie in favour of Latvia. And this is not just about possible future achievements in the Olympic Games or other high-ranking international competitions, which we could certainly expect. The Commission also received an opinion from the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs on the fact that according to the requirements of the Citizenship Law there are no formal obstacles for Ruslans Nakonečnij to obtain Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia. At the request of the Commission, the sports achievements of Ruslans Nakonečnys were also examined by the Sports Sub-Commission, inviting representatives of the Latvian Modern Piece Federation and the Latvian Olympic Committee. The opinion on the granting of citizenship was positive. The Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity also met with the applicant himself, Ruslans Nakonečija, and met with his recognised motivation to be a patriot of Latvia, as well as welcomed the Latvian language skills acquired in the short term. In his application Ruslans Nakonečnijs has expressed his readiness to renounce Ukrainian citizenship if he is granted Latvian citizenship. And the applicant has given a promise of trust to the Republic of Latvia and has signed it. The members of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity unanimously supported the granting of citizenship of Latvia to Ruslans Nakonečnija for special merits in favour of Latvia. Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Commission, I invite you to support the draft decision of the Saeima - to accept Ruslan Nakonečnie in Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U85	Thank you to the rapporteur. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On taking Ruslans Nakonečnija into Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. (Applause) Colleagues! With regard to the replies to Members' questions scheduled for today, I would like to inform you that the written responses received to the question of Members Zarina, Mirska, Raimonds Rubika, Potapkin and Orlova to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, about the Ministry of the Economy's inactions in the construction sector, are not satisfactory, but the Prime Minister cannot come to an oral response today. Regarding the Member, Guntis Belevičs, Minister of Health of Silver, May, Balož, Shimfas and Platoper, the written responses received to the question “On the implementation of e-health projects” are not satisfied, but the Minister informs us that he cannot attend the oral response today. In connection with the Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova question to the Minister for Economic Affairs (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) The written responses received to Dana Reizniece-Ozola “For faster liberalisation of the gas market” are not satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. The written reply received by Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On Collies in Construction” is not satisfied. The Minister informs that it is not possible to attend today's oral response. The question of Members Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Zariņa, Agešina and Arthur Rubika to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the plan of events regarding the possible mass arrival of asylum seekers in Latvia”. The question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Kozlovsky, and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Rinkēvičs. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister of the Interior, Mr Kozlovska, informs us that he can come today to give an oral answer. ( FROM a faction: “Wonderful! ” ) The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the Regulatory Regulation of the Construction Sector” by Member Zariņa, Zemļinska, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova. It is re-addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that it is not possible to attend today's oral response. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Latvia’s position on the issue of refugee quotas” by Members Zarina, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova. The question was referred to the Minister of the Interior, Kozlovski, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Regarding the question of Member Pimenova, Ribakava, Urbanoviča, Elksniņa and Agešina, Minister of Finance Janis Reirs, about the planned amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, the written reply received by the applicants is not satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given today. The written responses received to the question of the Member Silver, May, Platoper, Balož and Šymfas, Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile, about the development of science and its financing, are not satisfied. The Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. The written responses received to the question by Mr. Mārīte Seile, Minister for Education and Science about access to education of interest and development of education system of interest, regarding Membership of the Parliament, Mr. Šimfas, Meija, Baloža and Platoper, are not satisfactory. The Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. The written reply received by the Minister of Transport of Silver, Shifas, May, Baloža and Platoper regarding the development of the Port of Liepaja and Special Economic Zone and the attraction of cargo to the Latvian logistics sector is not satisfied. The Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Smart Specialization Strategy” by Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova. The question was addressed to Seyle, Minister for Education and Science. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. The written reply received to the Member's question to the Minister of Finance of Silver, May, Baloža, Platoper and Mežeckas “On the Draft Law “On State Budget for 2016” is not satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given today. The question of Members Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the introduction of solidarity tax”. The question was referred to Minister for Finance Janis Reirs. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Members Pimenov, Potapkins, Tutin, Raimonds Rubiks and Adamson submitted the question “On amendments to the plans for Jurmala territory”, which we submit to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Kaspars Gerhards, to reply. Members Elksniņš, Tutins, Agešins, Stepanenko and Zemlinskis have submitted the question “On Activities of the State Revenue Service”, which we submit to Minister of Finance Janis Reiras to reply. Members Elksniņš, Tutins, Agešins, Stepanenko and Zemlinskis submitted the question “On non-public discharges of personal data”, which we submit to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs for reply. Members Elksniņš, Tutin, Urbanovičs, Potapkin and Agešins have submitted the question “On the Activities of the State Revenue Service”, which we submit to Minister of Finance Janis Reiras to reply. Members Zarins, Tutins, Potapkins, Agešins and Arturs Rubiks submitted the question “On Compliance of the Model of Liberalization of the Latvian Natural Gas Market with the Interest of Latvian Consumers”, which we hand over to Minister of Economy Dana Reizniece-Ozola to reply. Member Ivars Zarins has applied for the motivation of the question. Please! One minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U86	Hello, colleagues! There is no doubt that Latvia must complete the liberalisation of the natural gas market and make the division of “Latvijas Gas” to ensure equal opportunities for all gas traders to use the Latvian gas infrastructure and for Latvian consumers to choose the most favourable gas supplier. Unfortunately, at the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, which examined the model of liberalisation of the gas market proposed by the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Economics was unable to justify why the liberalisation model it proposed was the most appropriate for the interests of Latvian consumers, but claimed that this model was agreed with the shareholders of “Latvijas Gas”. This provides for the creation of at least two separate monopolies instead of one monopoly, thus allowing an investor to acquire only the most advantageous and strategically important assets of Latvijas Gas. In addition, the draft law provides for special rights for such a financial institution, which will have purchased these “Latvijas Gas” assets. It is not clear from the draft law how the model proposed by the Ministry of Economics is intended to ensure the necessary security of supply for Latvian consumers. All this gives rise to reasonable fears that the liberalisation model proposed by the Ministry of Economics has been developed, not by taking into account the interests of Latvian consumers, but by “covering” with them, in order to create a convenient opportunity for an investor to buy a certain part of “Latvijas Gas” infrastructure without thinking at all about essential aspects for Latvian consumers. This model is very similar to what has already been implemented... ( From the drug: “Time! Time!” Depp. A. Elksniņš: “Let’s talk!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U87	Your speaking time is over. Please turn off the microphone for Member Zarins! Not by Order reel. Thank you. So it's time for registration. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please the result! While preparing the results of the registration, for notification the name of the secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U88	Good morning, honourable Members! The Saeima Bureau today received an application from a political group's Unity requesting that the Group's Council be convened. The Bureau decided to call the Committee in ten minutes, which would take place at 10.10 a.m. I ask the political leaders and the Saeima Bureau to meet in the Red Hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U89	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U90	Dear colleagues, I remind you that the meeting of the National Administration and Municipal Commission will take place at 10.30 a.m. at the Commission's premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U91	Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U92	Dear colleagues, Not registered for this moment: Augusts Brigmanis, Boris Cilevičs, Einārs Cilinskis, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Igors Pimenovs, Ivans Ribakovs and Edwards Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-15-PT12-322-U93	Thank you. So I closed the sitting.
