ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-16-PT12-293-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room so that we can begin the sitting. Colleagues, we found that the Member Dainis Liepiņš is also in the room. On 5 February this year, the Saeima voted and agreed, Mr Liepiņš, on your criminal case for further trial. And according to the second paragraph of Article 17 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, which states that in cases where the Saeima has agreed to criminalise a member of the Saeima, a Member shall lose his right to attend the Saeima sitting, thus denying him the right to attend the Saeima sitting. So that I call for a roll of Saeima order, respect colleagues and leave the Saeima Chamber. You can, of course, watch the Saeima sitting as a visitor from the Guest Sector. ( From the drug depot. D.Liepiņš: “This is what I want – a legal explanation, let’s say that the Legal Bureau explains... !” ) I am sorry, Mr Liepiņš, as well as the exchange of notes or thoughts on the instructions of the Speaker of the Saeima sitting in accordance with the Rally of the Saeima. This is determined by the turn of the Saeima... So Mr. Liepins refuses to leave the Saeima's Sitting Hall. Colleagues, I declare... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “To be called a special service!” ) Colleagues, I once again call on Mr. Liepiņš to leave the Saeima's meeting room! So it doesn't happen. I shall suspend the technical interruption, first for 15 minutes, with the possibility of extending it if necessary. So first there will be a technical break by 9:20. During this time, a meeting of the Saeima Bureau and the Fraction Council shall be convened. So I ask the Saeima Bureau and political leaders to go to the Red Hall. Thank you. That's... Yes, at this time! Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-16-PT12-293-U2	Colleagues! I call for the Saeima sitting to continue, to take up seats in the Saeima sitting room so that we can start work. ( In the background of the discussion. From the hall: “Let’s vote!” ) Colleagues! This is not a voting issue. And since the Member Liepiņš has taken a seat in the Saeima's meeting room, I call again on the Parliament's Fraction Council and the Bureau to decide on further action. So break for five minutes – with the possibility to extend for a longer period if necessary. And so in the Red Hall, the Saeima Presidium and group leaders are convened again. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-16-PT12-293-U3	Dear colleagues, Please, take your seats! Yeah... I understand that Member Liepiņš has taken note of the views expressed at the Bureau and the Fraction Council today, so we can continue... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leids from the drug.) ... continue the Saeima sitting. ( From the drug depot. A.Kimiņš: “Stop! Stop! Stop! What are you doing here now?Oh, no, no, no, no, “ Deb. A.Kamiņš leaves the Sitting Hall.) So... ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.) Yeah. So, honourable colleagues, the situation in the Chamber that we discussed before has now been restored. ( The Hall is entering the depot.) A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Many, stop figure out!” With the depot. A.Kamini The meeting room enters the depot. D.Liepiņš. There's laughter and intermediate shouting in the grass.) Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out to you that any discussion with the Chair of the sitting is prohibited. The second point is that, given that Member Liepiņš still appears to ignore both the Saeima Bureau and the Fraces Council, and the interpretation of the Legal Bureau, I will announce on behalf of the Bureau the suspension of the sitting until the next Thursday, 23 April, at 9.00. According to... Yes, according to the parliamentary roll of order, we need to register. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! While the results of the registration are being prepared, despite the fact that this sitting is a bit special, I would nevertheless like to welcome, on behalf of all of us, our colleagues in the round anniversary, Vladimir Nikonov. It's like, you know, it's like, you know, Sub-words: ‘Not in the hall!’ ) Unfortunately, he has been agitated. And in the roundest anniversary – Member Kārlis Krēsliņš. ( The Hall is full of hands.) And now the name for reading the results of the registration to Gunaras Kūtris, a member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-16-PT12-293-U4	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Guntis Belēvičs, Ints Dālderis, Ināra Mūrniece, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Arvīds Platopers, Jānis Upenieks and Ilze Viņķele.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-16-PT12-293-U5	Thank you. So it's a break until 9:00 a.m. on 23 April.
