ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 18 June, which is closing in this session, and according to tradition, the President of Latvia says a speech in the Saeima. Name to the President of Latvia Andris Bērziņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2	Good morning! President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear Members, Honourable Members! A significant part of my daily work was in cooperation with the Saeima. During these four years I have cooperated with the 10th, 11th and 12th Saeima. I welcome the joint work in the legislative process, as well as with regard to the laws that have been passed on to my legislative proposals and re-reading. I have always considered as a good reason for cooperation with Parliament the result of quality legislation through dialogue, seeking common understanding on issues of debate. I think we have succeeded. Honourable Members! As regards legislative initiatives, I have repeatedly addressed the Saeima during my term of office to propose changes to existing legislation. Together, I encouraged amendments to 16 laws, as well as proposals to be put to the vote on several draft laws. I also issued a number of orders in areas where, in cooperation with the executive, we tried to address issues of public interest. For example, the Ministry of Justice has developed proposals to prevent too detailed and detailed legislation. The Presidential Chancellery and several ministries offered to implement the Ministerial Regulations. I welcome the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers that the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with other institutions should draw up proposals for the establishment of this institute by the end of next year. On the other hand, on the basis of my order on proposals for the efficient and sustainable use of agricultural land, a decision was taken on the establishment of the Land Fund, on the basis of which appropriate legislative amendments were adopted. Over recent years, the Saeima has been working on a legislative initiative to strengthen political parties and increase accountability. One of the proposals of the law - to provide tax credits in the form of eligible expenditures to donors of political party or association of political parties - has already been accepted at the Saeima. I also wish to continue work on the other draft legislation on this initiative during the autumn session. I also believe that early or late public funding for political parties will have to be increased in order to reduce the influence of interest groups on decision-making in political parties. A significant share of public funding in the budgets of political parties is a widely accepted practice in European countries. Most of my initiatives have been incorporated into legislation. There is, however, one initiative that has been given more attention, but which has not been adopted. I believe that the work should continue with the legislative initiative on strengthening the executive power, which I have addressed on several occasions. At an international conference organised by the Presidential Chancellery in February of this year, foreign and local experts expressed their support for the need to make appropriate amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia and the Cabinet of Ministers' Equipment Law. During this conference, it was assessed that the initiative to strengthen the executive power submitted to the 11th Saeima has already provided positive features in the political process in Latvia. In particular, the debate on the need for new amendments to the Constitution has contributed to the fact that the current Article 55 of the Satversme has been observed to a much greater extent in shaping the government. This determines that the Cabinet of Ministers consists of the Prime Minister and ministers invited by him. In order to further enhance the responsibility of the Prime Minister and his represented party for his team, it is necessary to amend the Constitution by providing that the approval of the Prime Minister by the Saeima would be sufficient. After appointment, only the Prime Minister would choose the ministers with whom he would work and he should not ask for parliamentary support for their appointment. It is also necessary to introduce the so-called 'constructive mistrust' vote, which provides that Members of Parliament should at the same time indicate the name of the new head of the Cabinet. I call on the 12th Saeima to focus actively on the evaluation of these amendments. Honourable Members! So far, you have adopted 111 laws, both new and amended previously. Last November, at the first sitting of the 12th Saeima, I invited you to reassess the amendments adopted by the previous Saeima in the insolvency law. The new version of the law would have had a significant impact on the freedom of choice of mortgage borrowers, jeopardise the implementation of the state-supported first housing purchase programme and significantly reduce labour mobility in remote regions. Although the amendments adopted at the outset may seem attractive, these factors would undoubtedly contribute to further emigration of the population, which is one of the greatest threats to Latvia's future. I am pleased that Members of the 12th Saeima have assessed the risks and made a more balanced decision to remedy the situation. I am also pleased that during this parliamentary term there has been cooperation not only in the process of drafting laws, but also in trying to find solutions in very specific situations. In cooperation with the State President's Chancellery and the Ministry of Justice, at the meeting of the Saeima's Committee on Human Rights and Public Affairs and the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, the issue of protection of the interests of a citizen of the Republic of Latvia who is a minor was discussed at the beginning of this year on her surrender into forced adoption of foreign nationals. The national parliament was invited to evaluate the situation and to take steps to get information in care cases involving Latvian minors. Dear Members, Honourable Members! I call for the responsible process of adopting the state budget and other legislative acts to take into account issues of importance to the well-being and security of our citizens both in this year and in the coming years. These must certainly include not only the task of strengthening the country's external security, but also the need for further administrative territorial reform. Administratively, territorial reform is the key to many domestic pains, in particular those related to education and health, which need to be addressed urgently to ensure access to and quality of healthcare and education in the country, and in particular in rural areas and small towns. The work lines mentioned above are only a small part of the wide range of issues that you will have to face in the next autumn session of the Saeima. Thank you for your successful cooperation. Happy Johns! My “family” funerals and oaks smell nicely here. I hope that this is what you will have today. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U3	On behalf of the Saeima, I thank you. (Applause) On behalf of the Saeima, I am very grateful to the President of Latvia Andris Bērziņš for his cooperation with the Saeima in the performance of its tasks. Thank you very much. ( Gives President Berzins flowers.) Thank you very much. ( Next to the meeting, the President and the Head of State speak without a microphone. President of Latvia A.Bērzins: “Trust or don’t believe, I felt really humanely well with you all, and I will be able to say goodbye to you today. But life is not over!” The Head of the sitting: “Starts!” ... The President of Latvia adds something else. It's got a circle.) The proposals for amendments to the Bureau's agenda are to be examined by the honourable Members before starting to discuss the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include draft decision “On cancellation of Sandra Bricks from the position of a judge of the Liepaja Court”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision “On Dismissal of Dzintra Danberga from the position of a judge of Jurmala city court”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and to include a draft decision on the election of Daces Ķezbere as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the agenda of the sitting be amended to include the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Vineta Mazures as a judge of a district (city) court’. Are there any objections to Members? Members have no reservations. The agenda has been amended. Please make changes to your electronic agenda. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision... I'm sorry! The Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting to include the question ‘On the approval of the parliamentary mandate of the 12th Saeima Member Janis Trupovnieks’. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The National Administration and Municipal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Society and Foundations”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. So we start to look at the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda, on the approval of the 12th parliamentary term of office of Mr Janis Trupovnieks. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U4	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 12 June 2015, the Board of Representatives of the Saeima announced that, on the basis of an application by the 12th Saeima Member Raimonds Vējonis regarding the establishment of a Member’s mandate due to his election to the President of the Republic, Janis Trupovnieks was approved by the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U5	Thank you. So we take note of this information. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. Members of Sergeant, Bergmanis, Brigmanis, Līdaka and Vectirāns are asking to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U6	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I'll start with a little lyrical introduction. I went around the city canal yesterday, and at Opera, where there is a shipwreck for passengers, I saw a moored boat called Aurora there. And then I had different reflections, and I began to think... As a man over 50, I could associate this name with one episode mentioned in history during the October Revolution; someone else intellectual may associate it with the ballet Adorable Princess; the practitioner may just think about the sock factory; another one about the mythology of the Romans or about the rennetism. But, well, a maybe younger guy just thinks, “ Or, how nice a word for a girl!” Why am I saying that? Because, in my opinion, the main thing is not the whole date or specific name of the day, but how people treat this day. And today we have to make a distinction between adding two famous days to the calendar, that is, the day of police officers on 5 December and the day of border guards on 7 November. Here in the hall, elderly people sitting here will, of course, remember what was the application to these dates during Soviet times. But, believe me, most people in the country have long forgotten it and younger ones have not even known at all! But both of these dates are historical, both of which are linked to really specific measures when both of these structures were formed. And it would be hard to believe that General Balodis or the People's Council at that time, by accepting these documents, thought about some great rebels in a large neighbouring country. In the future, these days will be those in which police and border guards will celebrate their anniversary and honor their best people. And it will also make them think about the fact that the state is giving them respect for the fact that they are doing such a difficult, responsible job. And for the most part, it means helping people. More! For rescuers and fire-fighters this day is on 17 May, so I think it wouldn't be fair to divide more than... I would add that there is no impact on the public budget on this draft law. And plus I must say thank you to the Alliance of the Regions of Latvia... The Latvian Association of Regions that they have updated this law. I must also say thank you to SASCAN, and Mr Agešin in particular, for the promised understanding of this law in the coming years. However, one thing is not clear to me: 20 years have been needed to get to such a vote. Thank you, colleagues. Please support this draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours, Mr Bondar and some other members of the LRA Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On the Protocol on the Restriction of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on European Territorial Cooperation Groups” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” be referred to the Foreign Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detention Procedures” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions’ presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau informs you that she has received an application from Member Janina Kursīte-Pakules to grant her unpaid leave on 18 June this year. The Bureau has granted unpaid leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item is the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's 2015 spring session and the beginning of the Saeima's 2015 autumn session. So this draft decision is about to close the Saeima Spring Session on June 20, 2015 and start the Saeima autumn session on September 2, 2015. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima spring session of 2015 and the beginning of the Saeima autumn session of 2015! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore adopted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda, draft decision on the approval of Diana Makarova as a regional court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U8	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 9 June this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Diana Makarova as a judge of the regional court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Diana Makarova to approve him as a judge of the regional court, while at the same time releasing him from office of a judge of the district (city).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Diana Makarova as a regional court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Arlitas Zarina as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U10	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 11 June this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Arlitas Zariņa as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Arlita Zarina to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Arlitas Zarina as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft decision is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Lalas Apšēniece as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U12	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 11 June this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Lalas Apšēniece as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Lalu Apšēnis to approve the judge of district (city) court without limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Lalas Apšēniece as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Ieva Vishkere as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U14	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 11 June this year, the draft decision “On approval of Ieva Višķerse as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Ieva Viķeris to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Ieva Višķerė as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the re-appointment of Aiva Daidere as a judge of district (city) court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U16	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 11 June this year, the draft decision ‘On the re-appointment of Aivas Daidere as a judge of a district (city) court’ was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Aiva Daideri to be re-appointed as a judge of a district (city) court for a period of up to two years.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U17	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the re-appointment of Aivas Daidere as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item on the agenda is the draft decision “On cancellation of Sandra Briques from the position of a judge of the Liepaja Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U18	During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 16 June, the draft decision “On cancellation of Sandra Bricks from the position of a judge of the Liepaja court” was reviewed. I would like to inform you that the materials of the judicial disciplinary case in accordance with Article 11.6 of the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability have limited access to information, therefore it is possible to get acquainted with them in the Special Procedure Division. Members of the Commission have voted in favour of the draft decision by 6 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on you to vote in favour of the draft decision “On cancellation of Sandra Brikė from the position of a judge of the Liepaja Court”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U19	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U20	Dear colleagues, Having assessed the particular case materials regarding the dismissal of a particular judge from office, I believe that the punishment chosen to a large extent from the Judicial Disciplinary Committee for the removal of a judge from her post is too heavy, therefore also during the sitting of the Legal Commission a very severe debate was held regarding possible dismissal of a judge from office. The infringement in question, for which the judge is charged, is the removal of himself from the proceedings of the particular case, to the circumstances that the judge had been fined of any kind until that, of course, was appropriate, but the judge has not been punished disciplinaryly at this point. ( From the drug’s intermediates.) In the second place, the Latvian Judicial Association has stood for the above-mentioned judge and during the hearing of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee has requested that the said proceedings be terminated and the judge should not be punished. I call on the honourable colleagues, especially those Members of the Saeima who have "introduced" into the Saeima... one, through the window, the other in the “pāl”, for example, driven... ( Merry laughter.) at the beginning, perhaps then, to place the Member's mandate in office and then to assess the suitability of one or the other judge, who has, to a large extent, set himself aside from the proceedings, for his post.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U21	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U22	Yes, honourable colleagues, some remarks to Mr Elksniņš' comments. First of all, by nature. Of course, the Legal Commission evaluates, and we carefully evaluate the decisions that judicial self-governing institutions bring to the Saeima. And indeed, in this Saeima, what Members are doing is first of all assessing whether legal procedures have been complied with. So, is the judge... whether it is indeed a decision of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee and whether the Judicial Disciplinary Committee has assessed all relevant arguments. In this case, even the possibility of appeal before a disciplinary court has been used and the disciplinary court has also retained this decision. The other thing. Of course, you can speak from the platform of all sorts of things and insult your colleagues instead of talking about the substance of the matter, but we are still talking about the prestige of the judiciary. And all our respected colleague Ilma Čepāne mentioned in one of the conferences of judges exactly the example of this judge, that if we want to speak to the public to trust the courts, it is strange that the judiciary itself cannot deal with a person who has 13 disciplinary cases. And this is not the first disciplinary thing! And really what the commission appreciated, unfortunately, Mr. Elksniņš was not here... I very much hope that you are, of course, familiar with what we were talking about, but you were not at that sitting, and it is, of course, very nice that you are talking here about what was talked about at the sitting... So I, too, in this situation... You used arguments that judicial self-governing institutions were also entitled to decide on another legal issue - the approval of Mr Bickovics. Then apply always this gauge in the same case! If the judicial self-government institutions have decided, then we will support this draft decision!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U23	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On cancellation of Sandra Briques from the position of a judge of the Liepaja Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -2 and for -17. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the dismissal of Dzintra Danberga from the position of judge of Jurmala city court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U24	During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 16 June, the draft decision “On Dismissal of Dzintra Danberga from the position of judge of Jurmala city court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Dzintr Danberga to be dismissed from the position of a judge of Jurmala city court at his own wish due to his retirement.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Dismissal of Dzintra Danberga from the position of a judge of Jurmala city court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the appointment of Vineta Mazures as a judge of the district (city) court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U26	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 June this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Vineta Mazures as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to appoint Vineta Mazuri as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U27	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Vineta Mazures as a judge of the district (city) court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Daces Ķezberes as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U28	Good morning, Madam President. Colleagues! The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs listened to all five candidates for the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council and expressed its support to Dace Ķezbere at the 18th June Commission meeting with a unanimous vote. I call on the Saeima to vote by electing Daci Ķezber as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U29	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Daces Ķezberes as a member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. Before we start to examine the section on "Proposals of legislation", proposals for amendments to the agenda of the sitting have been received. I would like to inform you about them. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions” to be put forward for consideration at first reading by the Saeima on 18 June without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? Members have no reservations. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” to be passed for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima on 18 June without re-examination in the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. Let's start examining the draft laws. On the agenda draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U30	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Members of the Bureau! Dear Members, Honourable Members! The Social and Labour Commission took very seriously the submitted proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”. On behalf of the Commission, I am sorry that we were not prepared to examine the draft law last Thursday, but the draft law is now ready. So document No 836B is being brought before you. The compromises in this draft law have been achieved in cooperation with the Ministry of Welfare, with the Ministry of Finance, with the active support of our Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece, in cooperation with the Prime Minister of our country Laimdotas Strajuma and our colleagues, Kārlis Šadurskis, Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you very much to the cooperation partners, colleagues and absolutely all members of the Social and Labour Commission, who have been very active and very constructive in the preparation of the draft law. At the same time, I also reported that yesterday, our members of the Commission supported amendments to the Law on State Pensions unanimously. For the second, final, reading, 11 proposals have been tabled. 1. - Proposal by R. Uzuulnieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Partly supported and expressed 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U31	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U32	2. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U34	3. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. The Commission meeting was partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal. ( Interface from the Hall: “Vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U35	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Andrey Klementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 1, for - 51. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U36	4. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Partly supported 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U37	Let us start a debate. ( On the verge is going to the depot.) I. Silver.) The name to Member Julia Stepanenko... ( The drug is noise. Depp. Mr Stepanenko withdraws his application to debate.) Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U38	Hello, dear colleagues! On behalf of the “From the heart to Latvia” fraction, I call on the members of the position to act responsibly and not hide behind current promises, but to set concrete commitments. I would like to emphasise - exactly concrete! Dear colleagues, I would like to stress that we are not talking about the refund of the pensions that they have not received, but only about one thing - giving back to one part of the pensioners what they deserved. This would be the time to express this gratitude and to return social justice. Unfortunately, the rule of transitional provisions of the draft law, which does not provide for a specific timetable for the conversion of pensions, is another promise, because - how can it not be sold? In my opinion, this situation is characterised by one word: injustice! Improperty against pensioners who brought the crisis to their shoulders (From the vault depot. V.Spolitis: “They all didn’t!” ), patiently tolerated, agreed and formed the Latvian “failure story”. The government should appreciate and reward these people for their reconciliation, understanding and patience. We understand that the coalition is aware at last minute of the danger that it has come close to the borders of public patience. At the same time, the compromise proposed does not, unfortunately, provide a clear answer when it comes to reviewing the pensions awarded, the timetable and how this will happen. Once again the position lies behind beautiful, non-sensing sentences, for example, that the pensions and conditions to be reviewed in certain years will be determined in accordance with the state budget options. Colleagues, you can already hide behind the unspeakable standards that something will be given. However, it is very unlikely that, by supporting this certain agreement reached between politicians, you will have the feeling of the work done by the Speaker of the Saeima. If only the feeling of being a treacherous step and the silent voice of the pensioners is taken so as not to darken July 8. We in the Group of the Hearts for Latvia - and I personally - are well aware of the state budget opportunities in this and next years, taking into account both the geopolitical situation in the world and the economic trends in Latvia. Therefore, it would only be fair to start serious negotiations on the optimisation of the state administration at the moment, a thorough reassessment of the programmes financed by the state budget, because the basic state budget really needs to be improved and not on the basis of the surplus of the social budget should live as if our economic indicators showed rapid growth. In response to questions from Members of our group on amendments to the pension law (legally but cynically!) The Ministry of Finance - the deficit threshold may be exceeded by increasing expenses in order to comply with the judgements of the Constitutional Court. So pensioners, in order to achieve a translation of pensions during their lives - but budgetary opportunities will not allow it! - the fastest way is to go to court. Is it a fair state? In my opinion, it is time for pensioners no longer to spend money on public functions. I call for support to be given to the proposals that we have prepared, which are a real commitment. And, as the Minister for Welfare has repeatedly publicly stated, these proposals have a social budget funding and do not affect the sustainability of the pension system. On the other hand, I call on the Minister of Finance to be responsible and to propose real measures to balance the national budget and not to continue to live up to the special reserve. Thank you!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U39	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U40	Good morning, colleagues! Once again, we are not using the opportunity to fulfil our duty in good faith, namely to explain to people the nature of social security and the fact that we do not have any savings, mentioned by Mrs Silver, on which someone is going to live. The state budget has never lived at the expense of the social budget, no one has ever stolen anything, and the savings, which have been almost billion lats, have amortised the negative consequences of the crisis during the crisis. The proposal that the coalition is now presenting as a victory for pensioners - and I am also part of this coalition! - in fact, there is an empty shell of nuts, which says the following: "Yes, we will in principle recalculate the pensions affected by the consequences of the crisis within budgetary limits." What does that mean? This means that the budget is on its way. So we are bound by all the deficit indicators, including the social budget, and when the budget is drawn up, we are looking at what remains. And those people who say next year will be able to recalculate pensions, lying. They lie to pensioners because it is already known that there will be no such possibility. So we reshape Christmas grandparents, who are even so cynical now that simply in beautiful packaging paper packed an empty box, stay under the tree and say, “It will be your gift!” ( Medications. Unity from the group: Bravo! Fractional Unity Applications.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U41	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mrs Barch, is there something to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U42	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to oppose and address both Mrs Silver and Mrs Viņķele this time. What Mrs Silver said about the social budget... I think it is absolutely clear to everyone that the Law on Fiscal Discipline is in force in Latvia and, by law, the special social insurance budget is seen together with the general budget of the state, given that for us in the country the cash charge is one and common. But, I would like to say, young colleagues from the “From the heart” group for Latvia may not have yet come to know all the laws in force. I would like to say to Mrs Viņķele: unfortunately, my fellow Member and also the honourable representative of my profession, these are not empty promises if government representatives, including both the Minister for Welfare and the Prime Minister, clearly and lightly say that a little over EUR 4 million will be needed next year. And what is EUR 4 million at the start of this conversion? These are either fully recalculated pensions granted in 2010... ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) Pensions awarded in 2010! The authors of this calculation are both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Welfare. And 4 thousand... EUR 4 million also comes from the start of the conversion of pensions to those who receive EUR 175 per month or less. That is what these two ministries have submitted to the Social and Labour Commission. At the same time, honourable colleagues, talking about both calculations and everything else, which is linked to amendments to the Law on State Pensions... all documents are attached to the draft law. Please be so kind, look and look deeper. So four. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Partly supported and included in the proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U43	We obviously need to vote in favour of this proposal. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 5, for - 51. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U44	5. - The proposal of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Welfare. And it is supported at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U45	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Siliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U46	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, honourable Members. I think this proposal 5 is a compromise for the proposal that was drafted by the Ministry of Welfare, but unfortunately it did not get support from the Cabinet. But the positive effect of this proposal is that at last there has been a move from place to place the issue of which, for four years already, the Latvian Pensioners Federation has been addressing a very large number of people, who are now more than tens of thousands, as they have been given negative pension calculation factors in the years of crisis. And as a result, they have been punished with a crisis for the rest of their lives. They have lost, especially those for whom pensions have been calculated in 2012 and 2013, and significantly up to a fifth of their pensions. I would like to say that the question is quite open for this moment, and it is about how this pension conversion mechanism will work and how much money it will need. We have already heard here that certain promises have been made. And to some extent I am surprised by the courage of Mrs Viņķele, who has actually said that the heads of state of the Unity Group are lying to us all by making some promises. ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) I would like to say that, thanks to the leadership of the FAO Group, it has been agreed that the Management Board of the Latvian Pensioners Federation will meet with both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance on 30 June this year. And there, I think, we will address both the practical way in which this pension conversion will be carried out, and we will certainly raise other issues that have been supported some time ago by proposals from the Ministry of Welfare, but which have not come to the Saeima today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U47	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U48	Hello, colleagues! This is an example of elegant hypocrisy virtuosity - what is being done today with our pensioners, who were waiting for a solution that expected the promises that are being made to be finally fulfilled. Today it is elegantly done - it is said it will not be! And found is an excellent formulation, so that, on the one hand, pensioners as if they were showing: “Well, see, take care of you, understand your pain, the question will be solved!” On the other hand, an elegant solution is being made - it is being made so that it can not be done. And this reservation that changes to this pension law should be made taking into account the possibilities of the state budget... In particular, the party that oversees the national purse said: “There is no such opportunity! It will not be!” And we can see it today... Quite amusing was the situation today morning... Did anyone watch "Morning News"? The Minister of Finance, who is currently not in Latvia and probably didn’t know about this elegant virtuoso walk, which is prepared, simply honestly and directly said: “Pension promotion? What are you?Oh, no, That's not what it's supposed to be! There is no money and it is not intended for it.’ So, colleagues, today it is probably such a big circus of hypocrisy in which you offer to all participate. However, if you are responsible for your words, we will give this opportunity: we will support this amendment and want to see you deliver on your promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U49	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U50	Dear colleagues, Firstly, I would like to say that this proposal, which I think the large majority of the Saeima will support, will in principle not change anything. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “That’s it!” ) Secondly, I would like to say that quite a lot of foolishness has unfortunately been heard from this troupe lately in the debate on this bill. A. Elksniņš: “Continue!” ), including what - I am very sad to say! - said the previous speaker. What is the nature of this proposal? The government's commitment, from the outset, to new policy initiatives next year is to meet all the most pressing needs and priorities: both internal and external security, education needs and health needs (as a priority) and... of course, not forgetting social issues too. Indicatively, the government is - I do not want to say - reserved it, but pointed out that some EUR 4 million could be devoted to the social sector in 2016. And these agreements, of course, are not currently recorded in any law. In the last few days, on the other hand, we have reached this result - this compromise that we see in this proposal from the Social and Labour Commission. Personally, I do not like this proposal from a legal point of view. Forgive my trained colleagues lawyers that I, a non-legalist, will talk about such matters! Transitional provisions usually write in the law where one of the provisions of the law enters into force or expires, but in this case the transitional provisions record the good works of the future; in my opinion this does not really correspond to the practice of the correct legal technique, but, of course, in order to calm the public's mind, it can do so. For me personally, the main argument that came from the Ministry of Welfare was to support this proposal, which I find to be legally incorrect. Given that the recalculation of the information systems at the Ministry of Welfare is outsourced and that it takes longer to re-programme the information systems and to carry out the activities referred to in this proposal, it is necessary to select, by tender, the economic operator who will do so. In order to launch the competition, there must be a legal basis for launching it, because the Ministry of Welfare considered that if only within the budget package we would make these necessary amendments, then they would not be able to enter into force from 1 January 2016, but it would take some time to prepare the information system. This is, in my opinion, an important argument why - although legally not particularly correct! - We have some reason to do this. Dear colleagues, what has then changed during all these last days' discussions? Absolutely nothing! What the Prime Minister has promised pensioners is exactly what has been recorded here in these transitional provisions! And there were two options: either to do so here - in the law or within the budget package, as will really happen. So this can be considered a certain promise, but without that promise, it would have happened exactly the same way. And then I have a small comment for those colleagues who have mentioned this subsidiary sentence "in keeping with the state budget capabilities". Dear friends, it would be much easier for us to work with the opposition if you respected the budgetary options in all your proposals, because anything that is being imposed on you in violation of the budgetary options, forgive me, is either foolishness or damage, or empty promises and populism. And this is the right way to Greece's road... Dear friends, I very much hope that Greek politicians will be able to find power in themselves to return to reality, and I very much hope that Latvian Saeima politicians will be able to find power in themselves so that I do not leave reality. We will adopt every law as much as possible in the budget. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity is a circle of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U51	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Do Members want to vote in favour of 5. - The proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs? No, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U52	Dear colleagues, If we really voted on Amendment 5... For on behalf of the Commission, I would like to say: honourable colleagues, also Mr Šadurskis, if you wanted to put this whole proposal into the budget law, then I would have liked to see how this would have been done in a legally correct way for you. You can simply write the corresponding text in this budget law... ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “In the package! The budget package!’ ) also in the package... Ah, then it is a new amendment to the law “On State Pensions”! Who's here, fellow Members, like a little bit of salt? I call for my opinion on the proposal from the Commission for Social Affairs in the form of a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U53	So, Member Barch asks for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U56	Thank you, colleagues. 6. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U58	7. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. Partly supported 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U59	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U60	Thank you. High honourable Members! You know, I listened to the debate on the previous proposal and I did not understand from Unity whether there would be money. The highly respected Ilze Viņķele said that it has no money, that it has nothing to hope for us and pensioners, and that it is some kind of move that has no cover. Karl Shadurski said that there would be 4,1 or 4,3... ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “4.1!” ) Well, okay! With 4 million anyway, we will implement any system - either we will implement a scheme developed by the Ministry of Welfare, or a scheme developed by the Ministry of Finance and presented by Asheraden. Still, this will not require less than 4 million. The question is who to believe more today because there are two opinions from one group and it is the ruling group where today... under which there is both the Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Question: What are we, members of the opposition, actually, for the public... We'll be able to send a messip - there will be no money. That's the main thing: will we... Or we need to prepare for something that once again in one day there will be a statement that it will be January 1, 2017 or to prepare that it will be January 1, 2016. You know, there's about 109 thousand people waiting for this solution, and that's not, you know, just an elite! These are living people who go to shops every day and pay our bills every day and who pay us salaries as well. And that's why I want to hear... to communicate with people throughout the summer and to know whether or not to wait for them to solve their problems. Because... Most importantly, we have been talking about this in the Commission for more than a year. The Ombudsman said back a year ago that this was not fair, but we talked all the time and the Ministry of Welfare always delayed it so as not to solve the problem. I will say this: Mr. Siliņš, you said very correctly that I thank the ZZS... No, no thanks to the ZZS, the welfare minister kept this bill for a year on his own table. He couldn't hide it very well in the Cabinet because we already have a second reading today... hastily examined. You don't have to say those compliments to your colleagues! I will say: it is a shame that the welfare minister who sits next to you could not have dealt with this draft law in the normal manner within the Commission! Why do we today, as a fire brigade, try to find something and write some promises? Why do we not have a concrete promise and a concrete fulfillment? What do we do and how we... Will we do or will we not make that conversion? You tell me how... how much higher will the amount that we consider as the threshold, which we calculate? 200 euros? 190 or 150? You can't say that, but praise them! Don't! You need to be one or the other... either then together with the ZZS as politicians or with their pensioners! It comes out that if I need to explain and I need to be closer to this public organisation... Well, then it turns out that... Don't... Where we see the dandruff, we see the dandruff. And whether we trust the government or not. I'll say no. And today we had a very long conversation with our opposition partners. We will nevertheless write an application to the Constitutional Court in the near future. And be prepared to make this money if we win... But we win because we have very good specialists who help us win! If we win, prepare next year to give back 50 million right to the pensioners. Vot, it will be your fiscal discipline! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U61	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U62	Yeah... Dear colleagues, Just like Mr. Clementyev didn't understand whether there would be money or no money, so I didn't understand Mr. Clementyev... I did not understand what he wanted to say from the tribunal - whether to shame the ZZS, who wanted to lavish with foreign feathers, in his opinion, whether to threaten the Saeima, or to allow the Constitutional Court to plan its future agenda more easily. Let it be left to the author of this chaotic speech! But I would like to speak very specifically on this proposal. We have two options to take action: either to prevent the negative impact of the pension capital index over the years, successively from 2009... after 2010... and so on over a year or on another path and start with low-pension beneficiaries. There is a argument for and against each of these approaches, and the author of this proposal believes that we need to go ahead in years. So... Talking about 2009... Indeed 2006. ... In 2016, regardless of which route we are going, the amount needed is around EUR 4 million, but I think it is much fairer to start to prevent the negative impact of pension capital on small pension beneficiaries. And the Cabinet has calculated whether the Ministry of Finance has calculated that in the first year we could work with pensions in this way up to about EUR 175. If we're going a second way and we're going for years, then... in that case, the pension increase would get everyone who is... This means that those in the relevant year, including large pension beneficiaries. I think it is our job - I'm sorry, colleagues, I'm going to repeat it again! - to start working directly with low-pension beneficiaries, subject to budgetary constraints, as this is the most relevant thing for them. I therefore call on colleagues in the Saeima to join in the decision of the committee responsible on this proposal that it is only partly supported and included in our previously voted proposal 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U63	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U64	Colleagues, I would like to dispel the uncertainty that, within one group, we are expressing seemingly different views. It should be clarified that Mrs Straujuma's declaration, which has also been signed by the coalition parties, mentions the principle that during this parliamentary term we will create solutions to compensate for the losses that remain for life for pensioners whose pensions are affected by the negative capital index of the crisis. If we read the Government Declaration and also the Action Plan, it does not say from where it is going. And it has been conscious, responsible, because it was clear to everyone that in 2016 it would probably not be possible. So there is no contradiction here, and within the group and in the government as a whole, everyone understands that this work should be done. The other thing. I would like to say to Mr Klementyeva that it is not necessary to fear the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is a completely legitimate sign of a democratic state in which people who feel prejudiced in the exercise of their rights and their compliance with the Constitution have grounds to turn to the court. You don't have to be afraid of it, and if I don't have a memory, then the “Centre of Concept” tried to make a claim at that time without being social-democratic. Right, Mr. Clementyev? You weren't accepted once. This is the same thing as this claim... Similarly, pensioners tried to do so, and they did not accept this claim, which I regret, because looking at the discussions currently taking place on intervention and intervention in the social insurance system, it seems to me that the constitutional court, namely the Constitutional Court, is the only and last bassion that can protect the insurance system from breaking down through cheap and unfulfilled promises. And that is why I would say that it would be God-friendly if someone applied for a claim in the Constitutional Court, because, as we can see from past practice, it is the only frontier against which Members of all nationalities and all political groups still experience respect and who protect and impose certain protection mechanisms on our social insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U65	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U66	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like to say my words, as Mr Šadurski has just said, and to talk about this idea: to start with the calculation with the smallest pensions. What do we generally regard as small or large pensions? Let's just look at the real figures: 31 203 old-age pensions were awarded in 2010, the average pension amount - 334 EUR 5 cents, in 2011, 21 721 people - 217 EUR 35 cents, in 2012, 10 919 people, the average pension amount - 173 EUR 22 cents, in 2013, 16 240 pensioners, the average pension - 226 EUR 41 cents (From the deposit of the hall. G.Daugze: “On the proposal!” ) and in 2014 15 767 pensioners, the average pension - 275 EUR 36 cents.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U67	Colleagues, I call on you to stick to the subject and debate the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U68	Then look at this: the largest pension received is an average of EUR 334. And the other statistics, otherwise combining these figures, show that the highest number of pensioners, in excess of 60 percent, we have a income group from 200 to 300 euros. So please tell me how these people should live with these pensions? And can they be considered as large pensions? In addition, I would like to read a quote from the opinion of the Ministry of Welfare, which I fully agree with. The specialists of the Ministry of Welfare consider the following: “It is worth noting that small pensions are mainly received by people who have a low insurance period or who have social security contributions made from low wages.”
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U69	(Slaughter with hammer.) Mrs. Schiff! We call on you to debate the proposal... on motion 7 tabled by Member Klementyeva! ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Let a person talk!” ; dep. G.Map: “There is a roll of order!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U70	Yes, thank you. I'll finish my idea. I'm talking about substance, about... It also affects the substance of the matter. The revision of the small pensions first promotes the informal economy. This option is also not in line with the principle of social justice, because a person who has worked for the average wage and who has paid social security contributions fairly from all wages will have to wait a longer period for a pension to be revised. This certainly does not stimulate full social contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U71	Thank you. That concludes the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does Mrs Barča want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U72	Dear colleagues, I would like to add on behalf of the Commission: the substance of both proposals 6 and 7 is a little different, which was mentioned earlier by colleagues. And the substance of the matter is as follows: the pension recalculation starts with a salary index for insurance contributions established in 2009, and that is the year when the first negative index is at the expense of the pensions awarded in 2010. That is the essence of the matter! That is why Proposal No 7 tabled by Andrejs Clementyev is partly supported 6. - a proposal from the Commission, which has been supported and which I have previously reported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U73	Thank you. Consequently, this proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U74	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". This is also about the same issue. There has been some support for 6. - the Commission's proposal, which we previously supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U75	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U76	9. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U78	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". There has been no support at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U79	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U80	11. - The proposal by R. Uzulnieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U82	All the proposals, colleagues, have been examined. I call on you to express your views on the draft law on state pensions in the second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U83	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, the draft law at final reading has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U84	On behalf of the Commission, I say: thank you, colleagues. We wish the government good luck in shaping the budget!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U85	Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on the circulation of genetically modified organisms, second, final, final, reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U86	Dear President, Colleagues! See the bill “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms”. With these amendments, we took over the norms of 11 March 2015 of Directive 2015/412 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which provides that Latvian state institutions may prohibit the cultivation of certain genetically modified crops in Latvia. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law. Seven proposals have been received by the Commission. The proposal is the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Krauze. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U88	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U90	3. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U91	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U92	4. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U94	5. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U96	6. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U98	And seven. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U99	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U100	Please support the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms’ in the second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U101	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law at second, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on the management of the Internal Security Fund and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund for the 2014-2020 programming period, second, final reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U102	Colleagues, we work with bill No.253/Lp12. The Commission has received seven proposals for the second, final, reading. 1. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U104	Two more. - a proposal specifying the nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U106	As with 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U107	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U108	4. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U110	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U112	6. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky, which intends to complement the law with a new transitional provision. The Commission has partially supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U113	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U114	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Appropriately supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U116	As all the proposals have been examined, I call on the Commission to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U117	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Law on Management of the Internal Security Fund and Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund 2014-2020”. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law at second, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Judicial Power, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U118	Yes, honourable colleagues! 11 proposals have been received for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”. Thus, 1 is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is partly supported and included in the proposal 2, which is the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which is supported, thus clarifying in editorial terms that the area of activities of the district and regional courts is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U119	Consequently, Members do not object to the first proposal. Members also support the proposal, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U120	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported by the Commission. And in turn it is supported 4. - Legal commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U121	So, proposal 3. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U122	Yes, but after the Rules of Procedure, there is a right to report on both proposals together, and I will also take the opportunity to explain why I am reporting on these two proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U123	That's right!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U124	Both concerned a single provision and the Law Office considered that that provision should be written accordingly.... the current situation that when reorganising the court, the court is attached to another court. As a result of discussions in the Legal Commission this draft law is also soundable with the Council for the Judiciary. And the Council for the Judiciary has approved and supported the wording on reorganisation of courts so that this norm can be applied in a broader way. In addition, the Council for the Judiciary has also supported the plan of reorganisation of courts, and this was the reason why the Legal Commission rejected the proposal of the Legal Bureau and in turn drafted this joint version to eliminate some editorial inaccuracy, which was pointed out by the Legal Bureau. So four. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U125	Thank you. Thus, the third proposal submitted by the Legal Office. Members support the opinion of the Commission. And 4. - a proposal submitted by the Legal Commission, which has been supported by the Commission itself. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U126	5. - editorial proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Proposal 6 has been partly supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U127	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U128	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U130	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 9 has been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U131	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U132	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. 9 has been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U133	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U134	9. - Legal Commission proposal on transfer of judges in case of reorganisation of courts. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U136	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Commission relating to the entry into force of certain articles of the law on 1 August. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U138	And 11. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice for the entry into force of the law the day after the announcement. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U140	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support colleagues in the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U141	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law at second, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Equity and Corporate Governance, second, final, final, reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U142	Good morning, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” at second reading. The draft law is urgent. Overall, we have received seven proposals within the Commission. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U144	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U146	3. - Commission proposal. The Commission has received support. ( From the drug depot. J.Tutins: “What is it about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U148	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U149	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U150	5. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U152	6. - Commission proposal. Has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U154	And the last one is 7. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U155	Members also support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U156	Consequently, we have examined all the proposals and I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U157	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 7, for - 3. Consequently, the draft law at second, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Construction Law, second, final, reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U158	Hello, dear colleagues! So to your attention the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”. Recognise this draft law as a matter of urgency. It has to be said that by this draft law we tried to determine what kind of supervision of the construction process of public buildings and buildings would fall within the competence of the Office of State Control of Construction. But despite some efforts, four very well were also presented - as the Commission's assessment shows! - Ivars Zarins' proposals, which were therefore supported after quite a long debate at the committee meeting. There was, in fact, a clash between two points of view. The Ministry of Economics with a desire to speed up the construction process objected to these proposals, but the Commission quite unanimously emphasised that the work of the building boards, in particular the work of the Riga Construction Board, was carried out in the box. By adopting this new Construction Law, we have given new responsibilities to the building boards. So they will have more responsibilities. Consequently, there is a considerable risk of producing unassessed harmonisations and assessments that could jeopardise, say, the quality of construction. And after this tragic case of Maxim, of course, we should also be largely responsible for what findings, evaluations the building boards are able to provide. Well, of course, if the work of the building boards is placed in such very, very short periods of time, then it might be quite difficult to escape from the crèches. Of course, this is not a problem for small construction boards, but Riga Construction Board with its 120 employees believes that it is unable to produce quality documents within such time limits. Well, and the opinion of the committee was that this time it was necessary to respect our largest building board, so Riga building board, which oversees more than half of the construction processes that are taking place in Latvia. Consequently, the Commission asks for support for the first proposal, Mr Zarina's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U159	So there is a Member in the debate, Edgars Putra, but there is one minute left to break. Obviously, we will continue the debate after a break. It's time for a break. So I'm asking you for a call! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! As soon as the results of the registration are available, Gunārs Kūtris, a member of the Saeima Secretary, will read them.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U160	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Guntis Belēvičs, Ivars Brīvers, Boriss Cilevičs, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Ivans Klementyevs, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U161	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U162	(From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “Time! It's time to work!” ; dep. V.Ageshin: “We will work or not?” ) Members call for work to start. Let's work! Let's get back to the Saeima sitting after the break. The draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, the first proposal, is on the agenda. And we are starting a debate on proposal 1. Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U163	Dear President, Dear colleagues, When comparing the regulations of the construction sector, which were in place until October 2014, and the current ones, it is necessary to conclude that currently construction boards are granted a period of two weeks for consideration and acceptance of construction documents (i.e. construction permits, attestations, maps, explanatory notes) than was established by the law which has already expired. The proposal by Mr Zarins provides for an extension of these deadlines. The proposal is based on the previous practice of one building board, which is unable to comply with the new regulation within its extended time limits and hopes to solve the problem by amending the time limits in the Construction Law instead of lifting its capacity or reviewing its internal system, i.e. the construction board, procedure or record-keeping system. Therefore, there is a valid question: what will this construction board do at the time of the start of the rotation of its assets from 2014 to 2020? Will we come back and ask for longer deadlines? Well, colleagues, I don't think so! This is about building capacity inside. Moreover, the proposal submitted is not consistent with the construction industry, investors, architects and anyone else who is and will be involved in the construction sector. The proposal will also have a negative impact on Latvia's position in the World Bank Doing Business rating, which is an international, national peer-to-peer business environment rating, where Latvia is 23rd in the competition of 189 countries in 2015. However, the higher result is not possible to achieve the time limits within which the construction permit is issued; in this respect, Latvia only takes 47th place in this year's assessment. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) For the comparison: 20th place for Lithuania, 15th place for Estonia. So in neighbouring countries, for example, construction of production buildings is more attractive to a potential investor than in Latvia. And so to extend the time limits for issuing construction documents, which are already longer than two by the new law... for one to two weeks, not acceptable. Colleagues! I urge you not to support Member Zarina's proposal and to have a wider debate on the draft law... not about the bill, but already about the law, the construction law, to come back in the autumn, starting with the new session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U164	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U165	Mr Putra, I will have to speak in the chambers: I call on you not to be haughty and to talk about the things you are competent about! What you're talking about now... This speech, I accept, has been written by the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, you have read it from the page. We also heard all the facts in the Commission when we discussed it. We should have listened for half an hour to these arguments, which were found to be unfounded and... unsubstantiated, but the entire Commission unanimously supported these proposals. For, look at the situation. As you know, colleagues, one year ago... around a year ago we discussed and adopted new regulations in the construction sector. It has actually begun to work. Unlike what you said, these deadlines have actually become shorter or have not been regulated in many places, and now there is an attempt to identify... With these new deadlines, with these new conditions, this regulation is now actually starting to work, and practical life shows that adjustments are needed. And, colleagues, what adjustments are we talking about? The essence of this proposal is then - what? The deadlines are changed by a few days. One-handed fingers... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Less than the hand finger has the day for which you are asked to change these deadlines. They simply need to be carried out so far that they can be physically and qualitatively carried out. So this is, let's say, about 7 days, but it takes 10 days, or 14 days, or 15 working days. So throughout the construction process, the request is for something to be extended by a few days. As a result, we get the opportunity to carry out this work qualitatively. Because where are the problems? Pure theoretically... those who theory about this process... they think: well, yeah, what's there? As if the number of days is sufficient, you will be able to do everything. But realistically, in life, it turns out that these documents that are being submitted are very often of poor quality. They must be redrafted. And this all draws this process, and as a result, this number of days is simply too small. And here, based on practical life, these performers have asked to make these changes so that they can carry out their work in a high-quality way. So it's a couple days. I call for a simple waste of time, support these my proposals and go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U166	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Inese Boki.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U167	Good morning, colleagues! I always appreciate that, too, from a practical point of view, all the proposals that come in, and then it is quite interesting to see how we all argue in the commissions. But since I have quite a lot to take part in these construction processes, believe me, one, maybe two or three weeks by a big one, because people often plan for years, then design years or months, and in the end there is this process. And I really also asked my building board, which doesn't have any big scale, nothing like that... In some cases, in the Construction Law that has been adopted before, however, those deadlines are perhaps very short, and given that we also have quite a holiday in the middle, which sometimes takes a long time, I nevertheless defend the view that this opportunity must be given, because these few weeks really will not give you much and will allow the building boards to look more seriously in certain cases. Because, believe me, they are quite busy in many places, not only in Riga. And, moreover, this evaluation process is actually crucial from many points of view, or not so that you can ask, mark, or, as the people say, turn back. However, I think that these proposals for extension are reasonable, and I also defended them in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U168	Thank you. The name's Edgars Putra, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U169	Yes, colleagues! Asking the building board if it wants longer deadlines is the same as asking the child if he wants candy. We all know the answer. This is not about a few days, but in some cases it is about a week, and we are talking about some proportionality in all of this. As I said before, we were able to obtain an old regulation permit in six weeks and eight weeks after the new regulation. Okay? I think it's proportionate. So still touching this Doing Business Index... Every year, the Ministry of Economics fights for every comma... the number of decimal places. Do you think that the extension of the week will improve this index? Doubt! I don't think so! Next year, we'll be at 23rd... We'll probably be lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U170	Thank you. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U171	One of the arguments why the term of delivery of the opinion of the building board should be extended was that the building board of Riga did not deal with all works. Here I would like to remind the Riga Construction Board that it does not assume the functions that are not due to it, i.e. monitoring the language in the city, so that the Riga Construction Board does not focus on the recognition of the Strēlnieki Square Occupational Museum as a monument to the Soviet period, and then it will be time to focus on the whole city and to ensure that the functions that are really characteristic to the building board are fulfilled. ( From the drug depot. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U172	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U173	Well, I'm listening to this... I really think it's an absurd circus that's happening right now. Colleagues, that's what? How to ensure a safe and reliable construction process. And if we're trading here for a couple of days... Mr. Putra, there's no week out here! Take... You must also have maths complicated today! There's nothing here about a week. This is about a few days that should be added. And why is it that it is for Riga? Because, unfortunately, our country's structure is now such that all development is concentrated in Riga. Construction... approximately half of the entire construction process takes place in Riga. And with this capacity... These changes are necessary in order to allow builders to work normally in order to be able to do all of this qualitatively. So you're about to understand what it's about volume... The volume of applications, the volume of documents to be processed by the building board, amounts to about 100,000 per year. It's just a huge amount! And if you talk, Mr Putra, about some kind of capacity there to improve, then... Apologies, following your approach, so today we should not consider such a draft law here at all, because exactly what you are now asking your building office... that it can't cope with their size, it can't let it... And you shift it back to the building boards now. But for building boards you recommend: “You know, think about your capacity!” Sorry, the country has the capacity it is. And if we want to carry out our work qualitatively, then we must be guided by real circumstances. And the real circumstances are that these changes are necessary. I call on you not to split your hair, because this is just about a few days. And this is about our safety, how safe we can feel in the buildings that will be built. Therefore, my call is not to distort this construction process from the very beginning. And if you need a couple of days there, then let's add them! If it turns out that everything is fine and can really change something, then let us change the other side. But colleagues, if we think that there will still be economic development in our country, then it is likely that these amendments will also be relevant for other building boards, which will also have to manage more these construction processes in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U174	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U175	President, Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues! However, I call on you to remember that, some half an hour ago or a little more than half an hour ago, we decided that we needed the funds to be distributed among the pensioners, and so on. We always know very well where to spend money, but at the moment when we decide on some issues related to money making or some development, we somehow forget all this. Here we go! It may be that, Mr. Zarins, you've had no impact on those few days... And I think if it's a few days, then what does it really help the construction board? And for those who produce something, who have a stop... In hours or so... for them, however, it means a lot. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš intermediates.) And do we remember why a new Construction Law was written? One of the reasons for this was to reduce the number of these operations and to shorten the overall duration. And really for these operations... where you want to extend the deadline, it has already been extended in relation to the old Construction Law. Therefore, I absolutely do not see any reason to support your proposal. And talked about this is long ago, and building boards have had enough time to understand how to optimise their procedures. And obviously, if Riga was not over before, then, of course, something should be changed to get over the new laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U176	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U177	Mr. Zarins! For those who have problems with mathematics, I explained: in the example you mentioned, between 14 days and 15 working days, the extension is a week. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “14 days!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U178	The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U179	Dear colleagues, The proposal is supported by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, and in the Construction Law the deadlines for dealing with the specific situation are set. Until the time limit laid down, this does not mean that the other institution is obliged to delay the time to the last day and to keep the application and to take the decision within the time limit laid down. The proposal in question concerns the granting of a certain range of rights to a competent authority to take such a decision. And this is not in any way related to what Mr Shadursky, for example, says, that automatically by four days or one week, as you have argued here, there will now be an automatic extension. This is the only opportunity to improve the quality of work within capacity.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U180	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U181	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that there was such a meaningful debate. Look at the commission that was only confusing! The Commission was also puzzled by the fact that all the time limits in this part of the article were fixed in days, but in the next part of that article they were working days which were there... Well, as if this is a unit of measure... Well, I don't think that's pretty... It is practically not good that in one article we mix together two different sizes, as we say, because, however, days and working days... that moment has something very, very different. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš intermediates.) But one thing I can say is that on behalf of the Commission I now have to call on the Member Zarins' proposal to support it, because the Commission chose the latter between the mystical Doing Business Index and the very real construction process and its safety and quality.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U182	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 8, refraining from - 31. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U183	The next two is the two. - Member Zarin's proposal. This is also the case for time limits, and if I am not mistaken, this is the time limit for issuing the proof card. On behalf of the Commission, please support. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U184	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 8, for - 33. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U185	Now I'm afraid to lie... Perhaps Mr Putra will remind you that the proposal 3 or 4 was supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs? If I am not mistaken, it was (An intermediate call from the hall: “What does it have to do with the ministry?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)... That was four or three? I'm sorry... ( Intercretion from the drug: “Fulfill the Rules of Procedure! ” ; “Do not talk to the grass!” ) Yes, I violate the Rules of Procedure, because I still try to bring this process qualitatively to a conclusion. The Commission therefore calls on the Member, Zarina, to support the proposal 3. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U186	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 7, for - 33. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U187	I also ask for support on behalf of the Commission for Proposal No 4 - Member Zarina's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U188	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 5, for - 34. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U189	Therefore, please support this draft law at third, final, reading. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “That’s it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U190	Second, final, reading! Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, against - 3, abstaining - 20. The draft law has therefore been adopted at second, final, reading. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on detention, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U191	Yes, only one proposal has been received in this draft law: the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Iesalnieks. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U193	I am therefore also asking you to vote in favour of the full support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U194	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits, third, final, reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Bērziņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U195	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” (No. 191/Lp12), third reading. There was quite a lot of discussion on this subject, but there is only one proposal - the proposal from Member Andrejs Klementyev. And the Commission's decision is not to support it. Why? Because if we support this proposal, then... This shall apply only to Article 13, but shall not apply to Article 18. If we draw this conclusion, then we do not respect the principle of legitimate expectations. There will therefore be major problems. And so my proposal is... In the Commission, we did not support this, and the request is not to support it either at the Saeima sitting. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U196	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Andrey Klementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 32, for - 27. The proposal is not supported. So...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U197	Thank you. Consequently, there is a request to support the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U198	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law amending the law on unemployment insurance, third reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Siliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U199	Dear colleagues, The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted a qualitatively prepared bill to the Saeima. No proposals have been received for the third reading. I call for the draft law to be adopted at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U200	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on unemployment insurance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the application of educational measures to children, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U201	Dear colleagues, The Commission worked with the draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the application of educational measures to children’. One proposal - the Minister of Education and Science, Marite Seile - has been received, which reduces the bureaucratic burden by specifying to whom the judge sends the decision. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U203	There are no other proposals. I therefore call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the application of educational measures to children”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Festivals, third, final, reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Walter Dambe.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U205	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs examined before the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”. The Commission has not received any proposal. I therefore call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U206	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U207	Dear colleagues, your attention to the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection". A total of 16 proposals for the third reading have been received. 1. - a proposal from the debtor, who has not received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U208	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U209	Hello, colleagues! My first six proposals are all equal in nature and are intended to supplement Article 3.1 of the law on the prohibition of differential treatment with another ground, that is to say, the consumer's family situation. It has to be said that today, in 2015, there is still an abnormal situation, because it has to be established that the consumer's rights are being violated by discriminating on this basis – family with children. And most recently, this was demonstrated by journalist Guntis Bojars, who conducted an experiment in how this discrimination is implemented. And I have to say that it is surprising and it is time to point out, however, that the inflationary nature of people who, after asking whether a person has a family with children, how children and at what age they are, allow her to refuse to rent a living area without even imposing any particular conditions, let us accept by contract that, in the event of damage to the premises (which of course could be, regardless of whether they are small or large children, young or adults), there will be appropriate sanctions. No, no! Even such restrictions, which are proportionate, are not provided for but are rejected in substance. So a person with children is not acceptable to some good renter. And that is why I am calling for this law, the Law on Consumer Rights, to include this foundation. Now a little bit of history. It could, of course, be said that Article 91 of the Satversme already provides for any kind of prohibition, however, there are several other laws in which we have stated very precisely what is the basis of this prohibition of differential treatment, and these are several laws - the well-known Labour Law, the Law on Social Security, and the Law on Education. And there are very clearly several of these foundations. For example, Section 2.1, first paragraph of the Law on Social Security states that the provision of social services prohibits different treatment depending on the person's race, ethnic origin, skin colour, sex, age, disability, state of health, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property or family status or other circumstances. Thus, the family status as such is referred to in certain laws as the basis for non-discrimination. Currently, Article 3.1 of the Consumer Rights Law, which was adopted in 1999, on this different treatment appeared in 2008, when it incorporated three grounds, and these were gender, race and ethnic origin. In 2011, the legislator incorporated another basis into it, and it was a state of health or disability. And, as Professor Mitt pointed out, the list of grounds for discrimination is open and may vary according to the legal idea and social circumstances in the country. In my opinion, legal thought and social conditions in the country have matured so that we clearly state this basis in this law. Of course, it can be said that already this type of discrimination is not permitted according to the already mentioned Article 91 of the Satversme, but with this we would send a very clear message that discrimination of this kind is not permitted, and it should be hoped that those persons who abused their situation and thus discriminated against persons according to their family situation will simply not do so anymore because it is very precise in law. Moreover, because the State protects the family as a fundamental value and we have stated in the introduction to the Satversme that the family is the foundation of a united society, I call for it also to be clearly recorded in the Law on Consumer Rights. ( From the drug depot. A.Judins: “Example!” ) There are countless cases... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U210	Thank you. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U211	Colleagues! I haven't heard a lot about such cases in practice, but... Here, in this proposal put forward by the debtor, there is one very important nuance. The Consumer Rights Protection Act only regulates such cases and only applies where there is a relationship between the operator offering the service and the individual. If Mr Debtor wanted me to rent an apartment - with my family and child - and as a private person would refuse it at the end only because I have a child, that law would not work anyway, because the Consumer Rights Protection Act does not simply apply to such cases, transactions between a private person and a private person. Consequently, I call for this proposal not to be supported, but if this problem really exists, then a solution should be found in other legislation, which would also apply to transactions between individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U212	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? The debate was closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U213	Mr. Debtor, will you allow me to vote for you? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor of the Hall: “I just got a card left!” , come to the podium and take your card. He wanted to apply for a debate.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U214	The debate was closed. Let's go!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U215	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say the following. First. I can remind you that this draft law was generally designed to resolve consumer out-of-court disputes and thus to facilitate consumer out-of-court dispute resolution. And this draft law is related to the draft law on consumer out-of-court dispute resolution. Consequently, the third reading was submitted with a proposal of this kind... The proposals - six - were not, to a certain extent, properly debated in the Commission, because, as is often the case, proposals on substance have been put forward for the third reading. That is first. Secondly. The Consumer Centre also found it very difficult to apply such a provision. Well, to a certain extent, the term ‘family situation’ also implies the absence of a family and similar issues, so that it was considered that the term was, by its very nature, rather scattered and difficult to define. And so I am only left to call on behalf of the Commission not to support this and the next five proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U216	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - a proposal made by the debtor Member! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 10, for - 43. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U217	Similarly, on behalf of the commission, I must call upon you to reject it. - the debtor's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U218	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U219	As I did not have the opportunity to apply for a second time in the debate in due time, I would like to respond to this proposal to Mr Smilten that you should read the law together. Articles 4 and 4 determine the freedom and will of consumers, so they also state that the service provider has this free will, but that it cannot be used contrary to the rule of law. And in this case, I think we all recognise the fact that the prohibition of differential treatment is a general, fundamental principle of human rights. And then, according to your logic, you could also say, "Well, but it's my private company. As I wish, I responded to those who come and apply to me at work.” You see, there is some sort of order of things, and I am calling for it not to be confused - both this free will and its limitations, which are legitimate. Since the first proposal is not supported, I will withdraw the other proposals, but I will certainly present them as a separate draft, because I do not think there is a real reason to argue that there is now a third reading and that it cannot therefore be incorporated. Because if we find some visible imperfection, then we need to correct it quickly. Unfortunately, we have missed this opportunity at the moment, but I hope that we will do so later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U220	Thank you. So, as far as I am concerned, proposals 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U221	Thank you, Mr. Debtor. 7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U223	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U225	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U227	Also 10. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U229	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U231	Please also support 12. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U233	And 13. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U235	Fourteen. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U236	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U237	Similarly, 15. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U238	Is this not a proposal from the committee responsible?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U239	I am sorry, it is a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U240	And supported. Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U241	And 16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U243	Thank you. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U244	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on consumer protection! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia", third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U245	Good afternoon! A total of 19 proposals have been received in this draft law. Everyone in the Commission has been examined. So it's 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U247	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U248	... partially supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U249	Partly supported, included in proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U250	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U251	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U252	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U253	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U255	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U257	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U259	7. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Is partially supported, included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U260	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U261	And accordingly 8. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U263	9. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U265	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Also Mr. Iesalnieks's proposal. Some support has been given, as proposed 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U266	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U267	And 11. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U269	12. - Mr. Maller's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U271	13. - Mr. Maller's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U273	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U274	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U275	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Maller's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U277	16. - Mr. Maller's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U279	17. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U281	18. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U283	19. - Mr. Maller's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U284	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U285	All the proposals have therefore been examined. And please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U286	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Treatments, third reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U287	Four proposals have been received at the third reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Medical Treatment”. The proposals were not editorial in nature and their necessity is justified by an pending law, i.e. by the law on Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health. Thank you to colleagues Vital Orlov and Julija Stepanenko for these proposals! They will probably have to be considered when the draft law is available for viewing. Consequently, all four proposals have been rejected. The Commission therefore rejected the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U288	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U289	Dear colleagues, President-in-Office of the Saeima. I would like to draw your attention to a particular problem. By donating blood, one donor can save lives for up to three people, a well - known fact. But... Of course, compensation for expenses and - in addition to that - paid working day is good support for those people who want to help others on a voluntary basis. But please note that the rights of donors are still not organised and the donor may be at risk of infection when transferring blood to a medical establishment. In case of infection, the donor does not have the right to a patient in accordance with applicable law and case-law. This is certainly an injustice, which must be corrected by the amendments proposed by me and my colleague Vital Orlov in this law. I also draw your attention to the fact that support for donors lies mainly on the employer's and municipality's shoulders. Please support these amendments by providing that in future the concept of donor will be included in the law on treatment and that the rights of the donor will be protected on an equal footing with the rights of the patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U290	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will there be an explanation in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U291	On behalf of the Commission, please support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U292	The Commission considers that this proposal cannot be supported?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U294	So please call! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko and Member Orlov! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 17, for - 31. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U295	2. - a proposal from Member Stepanenko and Member Orlov. The Commission was not supported. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U296	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Stepanenko and Member Orlov! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 13, for - 39. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U297	3. - a proposal from Member Stepanenko and Member Orlov. The Commission was not supported. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U298	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Member Stepanenko and Member Orlov! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 11, for - 39. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U299	And 4. - a proposal from Member Stepanenko and Member Orlov. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U300	This proposal cannot be put to the vote. All the proposals have therefore been examined.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U301	Please accept the third, final, reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U302	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Treatments”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The law is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft law “On real estate in Valteru Street 18, Siguļi, Carnikava district, disposal of part for public needs – for the construction of the anti-flood protection dam”, third, final, reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U303	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Valteru Street 18, Siguļi, Carnikava district, for public needs – anti-flood protection for construction”. As the name of the future law points out, the needs of society in this case are manifested by the construction of a flood protection dam in Carnikava district on the coast of Gauja. This is done on the basis of this separate law and, exceptionally, on an exceptional basis. Unfortunately, the real estate owner and Carnikava Municipality Council also failed to agree on voluntary disposal of the necessary land during the legislative process, and thus the commission decided to support this draft law. No proposals were submitted. On behalf of the Commission, I would also like to point out that the Commission was asked questions from Members about the possibility of access for the owner to the decoupled parcel, which could be approximately 221 square metres under the land borders scheme. Thus, according to the representatives of Carnikava Municipality Council, full access to the land will be ensured. This was important in this case because such information appeared only in certain letters from the Carnikava Regional Council and not in the project documentation. Colleagues, thus no proposal had been received by the Commission, and the Commission voted in favour of the third reading of these draft laws. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Valteru Street 18, Siguļi, Carnikava Municipality, for public needs – anti-flood protection for construction”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U304	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support of the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate in Valteru Street 18, Siguļi, Carnikava district, for public needs – anti-flood protection” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on water services, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U305	Yes, colleagues! We work with amendments to the Water Management Services Act. Members and the Legal Bureau have worked hard and together we have had 50 proposals. Of which 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying the terms "introduction or output of the pipeline" used by law. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U307	2. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the time limit. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U309	3. - Mr Rubika's proposal, which has been partly supported and included in it 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U310	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U311	As well as 4. - Legal Bureau proposal - included... partially supported and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U312	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U313	On the other hand, Proposal No 5 covers both of the above. So it is a proposal from the committee responsible, which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U315	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in the next proposal - Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U316	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U317	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U319	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U321	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. There has also been support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U323	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U325	11. - The proposal from Member Arthur Rubika. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U326	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U327	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U329	13. - The Commissioner's proposal, Edward Smilten. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U330	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U331	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported, incorporated 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U332	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U333	Just like 15. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported and included in the next proposal 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U334	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U335	The 16th proposal includes both of the above-mentioned proposals. The Commission is supported. And it is a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U337	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U339	18. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who has not received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U340	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U341	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U342	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U343	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U345	Proposal 21 received from the Legal Office and it has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U347	22. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U349	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U350	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U351	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U353	25. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U355	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U356	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U357	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U358	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U359	And 28. - the proposal of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, which includes the previous proposal. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U361	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U363	30. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported and included in 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U364	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U365	31. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U367	32. - The proposal from Member Arthur Rubika. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U369	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. There has also been support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U371	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U372	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U373	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U375	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U377	37. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U378	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U379	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U380	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U381	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U383	40. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported and included 41. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U384	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U385	41. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U387	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U389	43. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U391	44. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U392	Not supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U393	I'm sorry! Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U394	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U395	45. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U397	46. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U398	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U399	47. - The proposal from Member Arthur Rubika. Partially supported, included 48. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U400	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U401	48. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which includes a previous proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U403	49. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U405	And the last one is 50. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U407	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U408	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third final reading of the draft law on water services! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The law is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft law on consumer out-of-court dispute resolution, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U409	Dear colleagues, So your attention is to the draft law on consumer out-of-court dispute resolution, which is linked to the already approved draft law on consumer protection. 18 proposals have been submitted to the committee responsible. All proposals are submitted from the Legal Office. Proposal No 1. The Commission is asking for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U410	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U411	I also ask you to support Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U412	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U413	I ask you to support proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U415	I also ask you to support Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U417	5. - Legal Bureau's editorial proposal - please also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U419	I also ask for support for proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U421	The Commission also received support from proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U422	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U423	Proposal No 8 has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U424	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U425	Proposal No 9 is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U426	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U427	Please also support Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U429	Similarly, proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U431	And I ask you to support Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U432	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U433	The Commission also supports proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U435	Proposal 14 also received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U436	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U437	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U439	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U441	Proposal 17 was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U442	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U443	And 18. - The legal bureau's proposal - is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U445	Please support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U446	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on consumer out-of-court dispute resolution in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Revenue Service”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U447	Yes, for your consideration draft law No.216/Lp12 – “Amendments to the law “On State Revenue Service””. No proposals have been received for the third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U448	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Excise Duty, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U449	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax”. Five proposals have been received. The proposal is received from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U450	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U451	The proposal has been received from Members Putra, Trupovnieks and Dambes. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U452	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U453	The proposal was received from Armands Krauze, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U454	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U455	Proposal 4 is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U457	And 5 is also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U459	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U460	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on voluntary work, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U461	Dear President, honourable Members. 25 proposals have been received for the draft law on voluntary work. Most of these are the proposals of the Social and Labour Commission, which in turn came about by aligning the final version of this bill with the ministries responsible, including. And we also asked for the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, given that the draft law was not created in the government, but in the Saeima. And this has also led to technical improvements in the draft law. 1. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U463	2. - a proposal from the Social and Labour Commission which complements or clarifies that trade unions and their associations may also carry out voluntary work. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U464	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U465	3. - Proposal of a editorial nature of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U467	4. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U469	5. - a proposal from Member Chigan, which provides that a person under the age of 18 may engage in voluntary work if the legal representative has given his written consent. Thus, the Commission had a major discussion about whether this was up to 16 or 18 years of age. There were different views on this, both among Members and public organisations, including the Latvian Youth Council, which also supported the proposal of Member Chigan. The end result was that by sharing votes, 6 were supported. - The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs that persons between the ages of 13 and 16... However, if Members insist, there may be a vote. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U470	Members ask for a vote on Amendment 5. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Member Chigan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 33, for - 25. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U471	6. - the proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, which is editorial in nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U472	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U473	7. - the proposal from Member Chigan, which provides that volunteering can also be carried out during the training process "with the consent of the persons responsible for the training processes". After consulting the Ministry of Education and Science, the Commission did not support it, considering that if something similar to voluntary work is taking place during the training process, it should nevertheless be considered as part of the training process and not as voluntary work and this law should not regulate it. This proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U474	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U475	8 / 8 - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Izalnieks's editorial proposal. 9 has been partially supported and included. - the proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U476	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U477	9. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U479	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U481	11. - a editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U483	12. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U484	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U485	13. - a editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U487	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U489	Similarly, 15. - a editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U490	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U491	16. - The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, which actually restructures... the same norm in a different place... It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U492	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U493	17. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U495	18. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U497	19. - the proposal from Member Chigan, which provides that public organisations reporting on this voluntary activity... provides that this requirement does not apply to the voluntary work of young people, which is one-off and short-term. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U498	Members don't mind... ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - the proposal tabled by Member Chigan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 3, against - 29, refraining from - 32. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U499	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U501	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U502	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U503	Similarly, 22. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U505	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for Welfare, Plant Health, which provides for the establishment of an information system for volunteer workers. Partly supported and included 24. - the proposal of the Social and Labour Commission in coordination with the parties involved, including the VARAM, which is responsible for the overall maintenance of the information systems.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U506	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U507	The proposal 24 is thus a proposal supported by the Social and Labour Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U509	25. - The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, which states that the law shall enter into force on 1 January 2016. This is necessary in view of the fact that there are several related laws that are currently under consideration in the Saeima and should be adopted before the coming into force of this law. The information system for volunteer workers should also be established by that time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U511	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law on voluntary work at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U512	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on voluntary work in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U513	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U514	The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U515	Colleagues, we work on bill No 74/Lp12. The Commission has received 24 proposals for a third reading. 1. - The debtor's proposal. The Commission has partially supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U516	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U517	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U519	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U520	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U521	4. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Asheraden. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U523	Five more. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, partly supported and included in the Commission 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U524	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U525	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U527	7. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U529	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U530	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U531	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has partially supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U532	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U533	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U535	11. - a proposal specifying the nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U536	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U537	12. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U539	13 is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission has partially supported and included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U540	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U541	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U542	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U543	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U544	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U545	16. - also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U546	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U547	17 as well. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U549	Like 18. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission has partially supported and included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U550	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U551	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U553	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U555	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U556	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U557	22. There is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U558	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U559	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U560	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U561	And the final one is 24. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Asheraden. The Commission has been supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U562	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U563	As all the proposals have been examined, on behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U564	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U565	Dear colleagues, I'm gonna miss your attention a little bit. The Commission has received or developed in total 353 proposals for third reading. For the sake of time-saving, given that a large part of the proposals have been made by the Minister for Finance Mr Reira, I will not mention him with your permission. I will mention the other applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U566	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U567	1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U568	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U569	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U570	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U571	Proposal No 3. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U572	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U573	4. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U574	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U575	5. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U576	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U577	6. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U578	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U579	7. - partially supported, included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U580	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U581	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U582	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U583	9. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U584	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U585	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U586	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U587	11. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U588	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U589	12. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U590	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U591	13. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U592	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U593	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U594	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U595	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U596	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U597	16. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U598	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U599	17. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U600	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U601	18. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U602	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U603	19. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U604	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U605	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U606	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U607	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U608	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U609	22. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U610	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U611	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U612	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U613	24. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U614	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U615	25. - partially supported, included in proposal 26.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U616	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U617	26. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U618	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U619	27. - partially supported, included in proposal 28.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U620	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U621	28. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U622	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U623	29. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U624	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U625	30. - supported and numbering changed.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U626	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U627	31. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U628	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U629	32. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U630	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U631	33. - partially supported, included in proposal 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U632	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U633	34. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U634	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U635	35. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U636	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U637	36. - partially supported, included in proposal 37.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U638	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U639	37. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U640	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U641	38. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U642	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U643	39. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U644	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U645	40. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U646	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U647	41. - partially supported, included in proposal 42.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U648	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U649	42. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U650	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U651	43. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U652	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U653	44. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U654	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U655	45. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U656	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U657	46. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U658	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U659	47. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U660	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U661	48. - partially supported, included in proposal 49.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U662	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U663	49. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U664	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U665	50. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U666	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U667	51. - partially supported, included in proposal 52.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U668	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U669	52. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U670	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U671	53. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U672	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U673	54. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U674	Members are in favour. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Support so, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U675	Thank you for your support, Members. 55. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U676	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U677	56. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U678	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U679	57. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U680	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U681	58. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U682	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U683	59. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U684	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U685	60. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U686	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U687	61. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U688	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U689	62. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U690	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U691	63. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U692	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U693	64. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U694	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U695	65. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U696	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U697	66. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U698	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U699	67. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U700	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U701	68. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U702	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U703	69. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U704	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U705	70. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U706	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U707	71. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U708	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U709	72. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U710	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U711	73. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U712	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U713	74. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U714	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U715	75. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U716	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U717	76. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U718	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U719	77. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U720	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U721	78. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U722	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U723	79. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U724	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U725	80. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U726	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U727	81. - supported and editorially clarified.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U728	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U729	82. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U730	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U731	83. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U732	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U733	84. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U734	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U735	85. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U736	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U737	86. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U738	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U739	87. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U740	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U741	88. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U742	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U743	89. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U744	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U745	90. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U746	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U747	91. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U748	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U749	92. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U750	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U751	93. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U752	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U753	94. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U754	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U755	95. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U756	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U757	96. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U758	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U759	97. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U760	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U761	98. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U762	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U763	99. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and expressed in proposal 100.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U764	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U765	100. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U766	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U767	101. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U768	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U769	102. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U770	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U771	103. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U772	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U773	104. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U774	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U775	105. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U776	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U777	106. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U778	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U779	107. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U780	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U781	107. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U782	108!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U783	108. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U784	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U785	109. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U786	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U787	110. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U788	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U789	111. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U790	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U791	112. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U792	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U793	113. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U794	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U795	114. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U796	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U797	115. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U798	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U799	116. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U800	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U801	117. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 118.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U802	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U803	And Amendment 118. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U804	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U805	119. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U806	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U807	120. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U808	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U809	121. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 122.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U810	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U811	122. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U812	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U813	123. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U814	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U815	124. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U816	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U817	125. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U818	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U819	126. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U820	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U821	127. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U822	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U823	128. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U824	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U825	129. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U826	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U827	130. - editorially clarified. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U828	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U829	131. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U830	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U831	132. - supported and included in proposal 134.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U832	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U833	133. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U834	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U835	134. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U836	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U837	135. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U838	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U839	136 - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U840	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U841	137. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U842	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U843	138. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U844	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U845	139. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U846	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U847	140. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U848	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U849	141 as well. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U850	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U851	142, on the other hand. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U852	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U853	143. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U854	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U855	144. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U856	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U857	145. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U858	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U859	146. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U860	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U861	147. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U862	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U863	148. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U864	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U865	149. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U866	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U867	150. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U868	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U869	151. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U870	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U871	152. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U872	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U873	153. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U874	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U875	154. - partially supported, included in proposal 155.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U876	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U877	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has supported its proposal - motion 155 -.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U878	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U879	156. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U880	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U881	157. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U882	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U883	158. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U884	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U885	159. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U886	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U887	160. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U888	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U889	161. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U890	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U891	162. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U892	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U893	163. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U894	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U895	164. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U896	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U897	165. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U898	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U899	166. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U900	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U901	167. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U902	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U903	168. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the next proposal 169.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U904	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U905	169. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U906	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U907	170. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U908	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U909	171. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U910	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U911	172. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U912	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U913	173. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U914	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U915	174. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U916	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U917	175. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U918	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U919	176. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U920	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U921	177. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U922	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U923	178. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U924	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U925	179. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U926	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U927	180. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U928	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U929	181. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U930	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U931	182. - partially supported, included in proposal 183.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U932	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U933	183. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U934	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U935	184. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U936	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U937	185. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U938	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U939	186. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U940	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U941	187. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U942	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U943	188. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U944	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U945	189. - supported. Incorporated in proposal 190.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U946	I call on Members to take their seats in the Chamber. Colleagues! Stop talking or get out if something so important is talking! Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U947	190. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U948	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U949	191. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U950	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U951	192. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U952	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U953	193. - supported. Incorporated in proposal 196.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U954	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U955	Just like 194. - supported by including...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U956	...Proposal 196. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U957	195. - Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in proposal 196.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U958	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U959	196. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U960	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U961	197. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 198.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U962	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U963	198. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U964	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U965	199. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U966	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U967	200. - supported by proposal 202.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U968	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U969	201 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal 202 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U970	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U971	And 202. - Mr. Reira's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U972	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U973	203. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U974	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U975	204. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U976	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U977	205. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U978	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U979	206. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U980	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U981	207. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U982	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U983	208. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U984	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U985	209. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the next proposal 210.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U986	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U987	210. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U988	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U989	211. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U990	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U991	212. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U992	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U993	213. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U994	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U995	214. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U996	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U997	215. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U998	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U999	216. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1000	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1001	217. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1002	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1003	218. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1004	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1005	219. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1006	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1007	220. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1008	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1009	221. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the next proposal 222.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1010	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1011	222. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1012	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1013	223. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the next proposal 224.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1014	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1015	224. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1016	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1017	225. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1018	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1019	226. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1020	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1021	227. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1022	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1023	228. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1024	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1025	229. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the next proposal 230.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1026	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1027	230. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1028	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1029	231. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1030	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1031	232. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1032	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1033	233. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1034	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1035	234. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1036	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1037	235. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1038	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1039	236. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1040	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1041	237. - editorially clarified and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1042	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1043	238. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1044	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1045	239. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1046	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1047	240. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1048	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1049	241. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 244.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1050	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1051	242............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - partially supported, included in proposal 244.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1052	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1053	Just like Amendment 243...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1054	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1055	And 244. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1056	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1057	245. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1058	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1059	246. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1060	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1061	247. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in proposal 248.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1062	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1063	248. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1064	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1065	249. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1066	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1067	250. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1068	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1069	251. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1070	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1071	252............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1072	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1073	253. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1074	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1075	254. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1076	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1077	255. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1078	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1079	256. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1080	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1081	257. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1082	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1083	258. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1084	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1085	259. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1086	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1087	260. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1088	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1089	261. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1090	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1091	262. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1092	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1093	263. - partly supported, included in the next proposal, 264.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1094	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1095	264. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1096	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1097	265. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1098	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1099	266. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1101	267. - partly supported, included in the next proposal, 268.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1102	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1103	268. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1105	269. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1107	270. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1109	271. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1111	272. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1113	273. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1115	274. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1117	275. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1119	276. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1121	277. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1123	278. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the next proposal 279.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1124	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1125	279. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1127	280. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1129	281. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1131	282. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1133	283. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1135	284. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1137	285. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1139	286. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1141	287. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1143	288. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1145	289. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1147	290. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1148	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1149	291. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1150	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1151	292. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1152	291 and 292 are supported. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1153	Yes, thank you. 293. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1155	294. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1157	295. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1158	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1159	296. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1160	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1161	297. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1163	298. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1165	299. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1167	300. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1169	301. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1171	302. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1173	303............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1174	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1175	304. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1177	305. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1179	306. - Legal Office. Supported by proposal 307.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1181	307. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1183	308. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1185	309. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1187	310. - partly supported by proposal 311.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1188	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1189	311. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1191	312. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1193	313. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1195	314. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1197	315. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1199	316. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1201	317. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1203	318. - Legal Office. Supported and included in proposal 320.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1205	319. - the same way. Partly supported, included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1206	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1207	320. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1209	321. - Legal Office. The next one, Mr Reira's proposal, has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1211	322. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1213	323. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1215	324. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1217	325. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 326.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1218	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1219	326. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1221	327 - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1223	328. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1225	329. - Legal Office. Supported by proposal 330.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1226	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1227	330. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1229	231. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1231	332. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1233	333. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1235	334. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1237	335. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1238	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1239	336. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1241	337. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1243	338. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1245	339. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1246	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1247	340 - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1249	341. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1251	342. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1252	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1253	343. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1254	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1255	344. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1256	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1257	345. - Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1259	346. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1261	347 - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1263	338. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1265	349. ... It was a good thing. Call: “Go, go, go! Come on!” ; “An additional 4 seconds!” “We feel with you!” ) President, I heard...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1266	Colleagues, take your seats in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1267	... that the Member is asking for a vote on proposal 348. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “No! No!” ) Then I am sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1268	Mr President, obviously the negotiations are going on so loudly that it is decided that you are asking for a vote on one of the proposals. Colleagues, if you are negotiating, we will consider this to be a call for a vote. Keep going, Mr. Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1269	No, I now feel it's time to get involved! ( The grass is laughter, the mercera.) Consequently, proposal 348 is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1271	349. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1273	350. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1275	351. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1276	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1277	352............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - partially supported and included in proposal 353.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1278	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1279	353. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1281	Colleagues! Before the final vote, I want to... and I hope that I express the opinion of the entire Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... to say a very warm thanks to the senior legal adviser of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, Anita Persmane, for the really huge and self-deserving work, harmonising opinions while working on this draft law. This work really deserves very much praise. (Applause) So, thank you. Colleagues, we have examined the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1282	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third final reading of the draft law on the recovery and resolution of the activities of credit institutions and investment firms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The law is therefore adopted. Dear colleagues, Until we register before the break, please do not dispel you, for we will begin John’s engagement. Please check-in mode for Members! Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! First, a member of the Saeima Secretary to read the results of the registration. Then let's ask all John to come out in the middle of the Saeima meeting room.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1283	Dear colleagues, Not registered for this moment: Guntis Belēvičs, Ivars Brīvers, Boriss Cilevičs, Lolita Čigāne, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Naudiņš and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1284	Thank you. Please see John, John Adamson, in the Chamber... There is no, Jānis Dombravas, Jānis Krāžu, Jānis Ruka, Jānis Trupovnieks, Jānis Tutinas, Jānis Upenieku, Jānis Urbanovičas and Jānis Vucanas. (Applause) ( Sing Suiti wives.) Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, let's continue our engagement in the Red Hall! Please, John! And everyone else! ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1285	Dear colleagues, Colonel is 13.30. I invite you to take seats! But maybe one more call, so that those Members who are still in the Red Hall hear we start immediately? Okay. Dear colleagues, Please, take your seats! I remind you that we continue the sitting of the Saeima on 18 June 2015. The next item on the agenda is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on General Education, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ilze Viņķelė, who is currently not present in the Chamber. ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “Don’t want to work!” ) Consequently, we move this issue to the end of the sitting... Oh, the chairman of the commission is ready to report on this draft law. In this case, however, we are looking at the draft law "Amendments to the General Education Act", but I would like to congratulate Mr Viņķelis. So the name of the Member, Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1286	Dear colleagues, See Draft Law No.44/Lp12 - Amendments to the Law on General Education. 15 proposals were received to the third reading. The proposal is a proposal from Dzintaras Zaķis. It is partly supported and included in 2. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1287	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1288	The proposal is a commission proposal that has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1289	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1290	3. - Dzintaras Zakis's proposal. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1291	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1292	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1293	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1294	5. - Dzintaras Zakis's proposal. Partially supported, included 6. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1295	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1296	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1297	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1298	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1299	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1300	8 / 8 - Member Zakis's proposal. Partially supported, included 9. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1301	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1302	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1303	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1304	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1305	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1306	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 13. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1307	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1308	12. - the proposal of the Minister for Education and Science Seile. Partially supported and included 13. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1309	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1310	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1311	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1312	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1313	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1314	And finally 15. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1315	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1316	All the proposals have been examined. The Commission is asking for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1317	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Act, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - no, for - 3. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on industrial property institutions and procedures, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1318	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Law on Industrial Property Institutions and Procedures”. The third reading received 31 proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1319	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1320	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1321	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1322	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1323	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1324	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1325	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1326	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1327	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1328	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1329	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1330	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1331	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1332	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1333	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1334	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1335	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1336	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1337	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1338	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1339	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1340	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal 13 has been partly supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1341	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1342	13. - the proposal from the committee responsible...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1343	... who is supported. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1344	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1345	Members agree. Page 63, Proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1346	Yeah. 15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1347	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1348	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1349	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1350	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1351	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1352	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1353	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1354	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1355	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1356	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1357	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1358	Also 21. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1359	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1360	22. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1361	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1362	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1363	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1364	24. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1365	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1366	25. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1367	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1368	26. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1369	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1370	Also 27. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1371	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1372	28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1373	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1374	29. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1375	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1376	And 30. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1377	30 has been partly supported and included in the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1378	Partly supported and included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1379	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1380	31. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1381	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1382	I therefore call on you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1383	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on industrial property institutions and procedures in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - no, for - 16. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Education Act, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1384	Dear colleagues, See amendments to the Education Act. Draft Law No 51/Lp12. 80 proposals were received for the third reading. 1 is the proposal of Dzintaras Zaķis, which has been partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1385	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1386	2. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1387	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1388	3. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1389	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1390	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1391	Members agree. ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) I am sorry... You want to vote in favour of 4. Mrs Silver, you want a vote on Amendment 4? Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 6, for - 3. The proposal is supported. We shall proceed with proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1392	5. - Member Dalder's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1393	Members shall not object. Member Dalder wants to debate. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1394	Dear colleagues, My proposal, as well as a number of other proposals presented in this draft law, is about making secondary education compulsory, not by chance or by a tumult. As we know, this idea has been turned into air and programmes of various parties for at least 18 years. And the declarations of the various governments have also introduced this rule... has been provided for in this norm, including Laimdotas Straujuma led by the Cabinet of Ministers, the current Cabinet of Ministers, this norm has been mentioned in the declaration. That is why I was a little surprised that my colleagues from the Commission did not submit any proposals for previous readings. I submitted these proposals for the third reading, which provides for universal secondary education to be made mandatory by 2018. Why is this very topical at the moment? Because we know very well that in recent times there has been a stable view among the various education professionals that small schools, especially regional schools, could best address the problem in a way that would determine this level of education, which is the initial level of education... This could be determined by six years of secondary education, as in other countries, and by six years of secondary education. So that would mean... If we do not introduce this provision, but introduce a six-year primary education standard, let us say, it could mean that primary education would be only six years old and we would have very many people who would have finished only six classes. Therefore, I think that we should go ahead and help the Cabinet to take such decisions and take decisive steps, perhaps also in many other areas, by setting this norm on secondary compulsory education already in the law, so that we can implement this norm into life by 2018. Yeah... I would like to say once again that, despite our general benefits, in the country as such... with the level of education and, say, the competitiveness of the workforce... Then, of course, there are also very high risks that, in the future, let us say, changes in education, changes in the school network, changes, let us say, in the very form in which we acquire education, we can come up with quite a lot of problems. So, I think, even if we do not support this proposal today, I call on everyone to come back to this issue very soon and to decide together what we are doing next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1395	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1396	Yes, there was a debate in the Commission on this matter. The Commission did not object in principle to the fact that Latvia should think about the transition to secondary education. However, this is an issue that concerns not only the current budget, but also the medium-term budget, and since it is precisely in this respect that this issue has not been debated, as this proposal was put forward for the third reading, the Commission did not support it. On behalf of the Commission, I call for no support today.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1397	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Dalder's proposal! ( From the drug depot. V.Agešins: “A very good proposal!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 26, for - 28. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1398	6. - Member Dalder's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1399	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1400	7. - Member Dalder's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1401	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1402	8 / 8 - Member Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1403	Members don't mind... Members want to have a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Intam Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1404	Dear colleagues, These proposals may be a little more technical, but I think they are very important. With these amendments of the law for the first time since 1990, the legislator has defined the content of education in full, from the first grade in basic education to the issue of a doctoral diploma in scientific activities. At the moment, it is not clear to the legislator, on the basis of this draft law, what criteria specific definitions of eight levels of qualification have been developed. The basic idea here is to introduce into our external legislation the European Qualifications Framework, but these wordings do not come from the European version. The first version of the European Qualifications Framework determines what is primary school, what - primary school, what - secondary school and so on. Let me just give you two examples. At the first qualification level proposed by the law, the term “professional supervision” appears. It is not clear where this term comes from and what it means. At the highest level of qualification, the description of the doctoral degree has been so far away from the description of the European Qualifications Framework that it requires not the highest knowledge of the most recent achievements of humanity, but only the ability to know and understand scientific theories, to manage the research methodology; the ability to carry out independent critical analysis, and so on, which are requirements specific to the master's programmes, perhaps even the bachelor's programmes. Not going to solve this problem, because we now have in fact four different proposals for this framework in different laws, at third reading I draw your attention to the fact that the descriptions of the levels of qualifications currently proposed are so unclear that they cannot be used to delimit programmes to distinguish between those qualifications that match, let us say, college programmes and which qualifications for master programmes. Therefore, they cannot be used as legal provisions in administrative proceedings. So... But given that there is now a third reading, I have withdrawn these proposals - proposals 8 and 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1405	Thank you. The proposal has been withdrawn, so it cannot be put to the vote. Similarly, proposal 9. We shall proceed with proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1406	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Dalder's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1407	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1408	Also 11. - Member Dalder's proposal - relates to the Latvian qualifications framework. And the Commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1409	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1410	Just like 12. - Mr Dalder's proposal - concerns the same area. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1411	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1412	13. - the proposal by Dzintaras Zaķis, which has been partly supported and included in the 14th report. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1413	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1414	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1415	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1416	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal tabled by Mr Wuzan, who has not been endorsed by the Commission. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “What is it?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1417	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1418	No, no...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1419	No, Member Jānis Vucans wants to debate. ( Merry laughter.) Today we have a little computer system working slowly... The floor in the debate is for the Member, Janis Vacāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1420	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues! I know that many of you have received a letter from Member Jūlija Stepanenko inviting you not to support this proposal for my third reading, arguing that it contains, first of all, substantial amendments to the wording of this article supported at second reading and, second, that supporting this proposal would mean destroying the norm supported at second reading that the education system ensures the moral education of the learners, which is in line with the protected values contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia - especially marriage and family. I can answer that I agree with the first statement that the amendment I have proposed is essential, otherwise I would not waste all of our precious time on the submission of proposals and their reasoning. The second claim, on the other hand, that my proposal will destroy the provision on moral education, including the role of marriage and the family in our society, which was supported by the majority of the Saeima at second reading, is that I strongly disagree. On the contrary! The aim of this proposal is to draw attention to the fact that during the period after Latvia's restoration of independence in the Latvian education system - and here I emphasize: in the education system, not in the duties of a teacher! - the educational function has only been shown to have a secondary role. And this applies not only to the creation of an understanding of the family and marriage as a category of our lives based on Christian values, but also to such categories of life related to education, such as trust in Latvia, the Latvian language as the only state language, freedom, equality, solidarity, justice, fairness, job virtue and, last but not least, the family. I have just quoted the fundamental values of the formation of a unified society, which are mentioned in the introduction to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia or in the preamble. And I called them in the order that they were mentioned there. Colleagues, I would like to remind you two things: first of all, that the Education Law was opened already during the 11th Saeima with the aim of strengthening the function of national education in the education system. And my proposal corresponds to this objective as soon as possible. Secondly, I would like to remind you that it was just a year ago that each word was discussed in the introduction to the Constitution mentioned in my proposal, weighing out the meaning of these words, especially when it comes to the fundamental values of our country, both members of the Working Party on the Constitution Preamble and members of the Saeima were keenly discussing. And on June 19, 2014, this preamble, added to the Constitution, was supported in the same hall by a constitutional majority. And so, with the same majority, the fundamental values listed therein, which are to be enshrined and maintained in our country, were also supported. I will repeat them again: Latvian as the only language of the country, trust in Latvia, freedom, equality, solidarity, justice, fairness, job virtue and family. I would like to ask: has something changed in those 360 days that have passed since 19 June last year? By adopting this introduction to the Constitution, did we not think that in all areas of life our country should act in accordance with the fundamental values referred to therein, which form the basis of a cohesive society? I believe that the implementation of the educational function within the education system is a particularly important area in which we must implement and respect all these listed fundamental values to the same extent. That is why I have tabled an appropriate and, as I have already said, I believe that an important amendment to Article 10.1 of the Education Act and I ask those Members who share my thoughts to support this amendment. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķele and a few other Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1421	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1422	Dear colleagues, However, I call on everyone to respect the majority decision of the Saeima and not to amend the norm already voted at the second reading of the draft law, which, in addition to all - I repeat - everyone! - The values enshrined in the Constitution place emphasis on marriage and family as part of moral education. We really understand the basis of social cohesion with the family, and one of the guidelines for improving demographics of Latvia's population is the promotion of the marriage institution. ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “As well as in the law of the USSR... !” ) The family as the natural and best environment for the development of the child and the marriage - a union between women and men - are at the heart of our development. Of course, education should start with the family, and only in cooperation with the family can the educational institution provide a full educational work. You will ask: ‘ What can a child from a single family or an orphan do? That is what we need to learn to protect the family so that the child can build his own happy and complete family! In response to the arguments made before, at second reading, that the mention of marriage in the education process may cause injury to a child who does not have any parents, I would say that in this way we can help the child to understand his future role in his or her own family. It is important to teach children not only to create a family but also to protect their mutual respect, trust, and love. The large number of divorces in our country indicates that people have stopped value for each other and our consciousness is driven towards an easy, simpler approach to the relationship. People no longer know how to cope together, how to give up, and how to appreciate the love of loved ones. The Riga City Council (of course the other Latvian municipalities) welcomes the anniversary of the golden wedding each year. And if you are asked to tell us about your life, you have not heard the anniversary say that life has been just a celebration and a party; these respectable people have taught through all life to bring love and know how to do it. I very much hope that in 50 years' time, this tradition will be still alive. If we really cannot control all this challenge at a time when society is purposefully demoralized and the games with the public's consciousness hit a high wave - uncensored lexical sounds in the media of society, news portals instruct us, how to properly treat children with praidism, against the Church, the role of marriage in our society is disdained... It is therefore particularly important to stick to our values in education. Our values... and not only those who are signed up to resolutions by our Minister for Education and Science and some Members of the Europarlament. We here in Latvia must, first of all, protect what is given to us by the Constitution. So that these values are not just a beautiful declaration, they need to be carried in their lives, and they need to be taught to our children in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1423	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Raivim Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1424	Dear colleagues, I would like to clarify, after a statement by my colleague, Mr Wuzana, this important point in my view. It could have been an impression that at the moment we chose between two education systems, where on one side there are values formulated at the beginning of the Satversme and on the other side - family and marriage. I would like to say that not that the current wording on which we have voted is already talking about the Constitution as a value, and thus about the values expressed in the Constitution as those on which we want to base our education, but highlights those elements that we consider to be related to a certain lack of education or to an issue which has enough sign of a question of public opinion. So it's not... In any case, we are not talking about undermining the values formulated in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. There is no discussion about it: it remains! The question is, Do we want to highlight family and marriage in particular? And my call would be to do so and therefore not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1425	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Klaz has been late to apply for the debate.) Mr. Crag, the debate was over with a hammer blow! Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - That's Mr. Wuzan's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 39, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1426	16. - a proposal from Member Ilze Viņķele. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1427	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, John Crag.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1428	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, It is, of course, to some extent a sensitive bill, because our colleague, Mrs Stepanenko, dealt with topics that we may sometimes rather not want to talk about. And my colleague Wuzan... he already had a very rhetorical speech, nice, but I probably didn't fully understand its content. And, you can see, this article of the bill deals with education, morality, marriage, family, and other like obvious values. You see, you might not be talking about it, but this is a time when in our country, I feel more and more pressure to expand the limits to these obvious values - marriage, family, morals. Perhaps one small example in the preamble or in the introduction. See, there's a fashion house in Italy, Dolce & Gabana, which works very well economically. I think that here, too, we have an accessory or a piece of clothing for each other, and I have one, too, and I have absolutely no claims for it. And, as you know, these two Italian gentlemen have created a family - a family that is not based on traditional values, and in this environment, in an environment of untraditional values, there are very popular discussions of all kinds. And also a discussion about morality. And these two gentlemen generated the idea that same-sex couples do not have to buy, generate, create a child. We should have seen what a scandal at European level got up! Storm! Because it was one of the most passionate opponents, Elton John, who stated that they do not even understand what morality is, and that for such couples if they have a child... I don't know exactly what process he has created or generated... that kids - it's very normal! See, why do I mention this example? Because any term can be rendered meaningless with a wide range of arguments. And for people who are based on traditional values, neither the first nor the second is, in essence, acceptable. You see, this discussion started with a little book that I didn't know was there at all. Thanks to Mrs Stepanenko, I learned that there is a book written by Katharina von der Gaten and Anke Kuhl, “Explain for me”. Of course, children’s knowledge of the world raises many questions that parents may not simply be able to explain, and it could be said that this book, too, could be a material on the basis of which they could discuss these essentially spicy questions. However, there is a question as to whether such books should be used as teaching aids. You see, at the previous sitting, when this issue was discussed, my colleague, Inesis Boķe, carried out an express survey among the directors of Valmiera Schools, with all due respect for him. Well, I also did this time, but I was so specific in this survey. I left, not phone-- I went to the honorable directors and asked questions... Well, forgive me if these words sound like what I've been here for 10 years... I've never heard of the Saeima troop, but... Well, we're already expanding the boundaries... For example: “Can bottom and ear be used in sex as well?” “How can you love women with women and men with men?” “Can lesbians have children?” “ Can gays have children?” And then maybe you end up, “What is a loaf?” (Applause) Well, you can... I understand, of course, that there will be those who will incriminate me as well... I don't know, it's the mildest... immorality. But, sorry, I quote only what is in this book!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1429	Mr. Klazka, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1430	Well, then... I'm asking... ( The Room Noise. Impressions: “Let’s keep going! Keep going!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1431	Mr. Crag, how long do you still need?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1432	Well, maybe another five minutes, if you can?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1433	I agree, five more minutes... Is that so? ( The drug is noise. Depp. A.Kimiņš: “Tenth! Ten!’ ) Another five minutes to Member Craguz.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1434	Thank you. You see, one of the most authoritative bodies or organisations in Latgale is Christian denominations. And I may have gone further in this expression. I think maybe I'm old, I don't understand, and that's the world changing, and I need to change... And I also went to three Latgale bishops and asked them this question... of course, showing this book as it's written there and with drawings where you can't understand whether it's a penis or it's a tie to a man's neck, or whether it's... ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “Article of the Satversme: The Church is Distinguished from the State!” ) I will not talk to the grass, it is not provided by the Rule of Procedure. And I am authorized to read an open letter on behalf of Latgale Bishops, which reads as follows: “Latvia is a country that has grown on the basis of Christian values. It depends on us what the future of our country and people will be. This, in turn, depends on what we invest today in new generations not only in intellectual and physical education, but also in spiritual development and growth. Our society will be formed as the new generation will have an understanding of the meaning of human existence, of his dual nature - spiritual and physical - about the family, marriage and their role, assignment and meaning. This understanding will be deplorable if, since childhood, man’s uptake and the coming into the world, which is not man’s invention, but God’s established and holy source of new life, will be served in a debilitating form of marriage and family institutions, thus reducing it only to the physiological aspect, as the book of Cataran von der Gaten and Anke Coul, which we have already allowed to use in schools, is proposed. I.Viņķelis: “What?” ) as a means of training. There is a rhetorical question in the Scriptures: “Are there among you a man to present a stone to his son if it were to pray for bread? Or would anyone give a serpent if he asked for a fish?” We invite honourable Members to ensure that the new generation is morally educated in accordance with the values enshrined in the Constitution, as national legislation must protect children and young people from the use of destructive materials in the training process." ( End quoted) This invitation has been signed by Jānis Bulis, Bishop of the Diocese of the Roman Catholic Church Rezekne-Aglona, Einārs Alpe, Bishop of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church Daugavpils, as well as Bishop Alexander, who represents the Orthodox Church of Latvia Sinodi. In this process, he also wanted to take part and express his opinion in the Jewish religious community, which also wrote a call - very similar. I'm just... How many minutes do I have here? “The Jewish religious community of Riga is a traditional religious community that stands firm at the canon of Judaism and supports the preservation of traditional culture and values. In our faith and culture, the family plays a key role as one of the most important aspects of human life, especially in the process of human growth and personality formation in childhood and youth, when human world views and fundamental values are placed.” And so on. Finally, “We fully agree that moral education in schools must comply with the values enshrined in the Constitution and protected values, especially those such as marriage and family.” This invitation has been signed by David Kagan, Chairman of the Board of the Riga Jewish religious community, and Mordehai Glazman, the Rabbi of the Riga Jewish religious community. I do not want to moralise much here and teach you, my fellow Members, how to vote and what to vote for, but I am just asking you to look at these proposals, such as the Jolia Stepanenko proposals. And understand that, either by rejecting or supporting them, we stand up for one or the other world order or for one or the other value system. And then, in the end, thank you, on behalf of all Johns, for your congratulations. And I also hope that in the future Johns and Leagues will look for the flower of John's papards, not any other type that will call it in different words. Merry Christmas! (Applause) Depp. J. Stepanenko comes to the depot. J.Kzza and press his hand.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1435	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Ilze Viņķele.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1436	Dear colleagues, The proposal not to restrict the sense of morality or to focus solely on marriage and family is made for the purpose because all other values contained in our Constitution are at least as important as marriage and family. And in the rhetoric that took place during the preparation of these amendments, unfortunately, it failed to listen to arguments where then it is the marriage and the family that are most at risk. In my analysis of this discussion, I would like to say that sins such as the lack of content in politics or greed, or theft, are no less important sins. ( From the drug depot. A.Kimiņš: “This is immorality!” ) That is why it is also... I do not see the basis on which only one aspect is resolved, with specific reference to marriage and family. Would not emphasising a job well - being in today’s society be at least as important as protecting marriage and family life? I don't think so. Then I am very sorry that we ignore what our professional colleague, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, said... actually warning the Saeima that we can create difficult conditions in this way for children born out of marriage, because in fact, its logical chain is that it turns out that they are immoral children because of the behaviour of their parents. And that is a very dangerous precedent. And I would also like to point out that I do not know what the reasons are for my colleagues, why such a perverse and so consistent mix of morality with sexual education. Sexual education is exactly the same discipline in schools as mathematics or literature, such as physical classes or fine arts. That's the same thing! It's a way to be pedagogically right... And we don't have so many educators here who can judge this. Mr Vucanas has already pointed out the risks that have been identified when he or she communicates events in their body in a pedagogical, understandable way for children. And it has nothing to do with moral hazard. That book that Mr. Crowd showed is not a teaching aid. Don't be misled! You don't have to deceive your colleagues! So we're mixing a number of things. We confuse consistently sexual education, sexual education and morality. And if there is a baseline error, therefore the proposed solutions are not correct as well. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1437	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1438	Thank you. I would like to clarify what Mrs Viņķele said (From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis: “I can clarify myself!” ) that this book, Explaining to me, presented to us all by Mr. Crowd, was really used in school. ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķele: “What school?” ) Children were invited to participate in this book’s artistic... presentation, writing... translating questions into Latvian. So that is absolutely true to Mr. Czag. And if we are talking about other teaching materials, then I have sent a very large number of examples to Members, which unfortunately do not contribute to moral development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1439	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( From the drug depot. V.Spolit: Butter! ) There is nothing to add. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Viņķele's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 9, against -63, refraining from -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1440	17. - the proposal by Member Inguna Silverba. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1441	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The motion of Member Ingun Silver! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 45, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1442	18. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1443	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1444	Dear colleagues, You have already heard this debate begin with. And you yourself understand that the 80 proposals put forward for the third reading really teased the honourable Members of the Commission. And I see that it was only for this reason that this proposal was not... with a small majority of votes, it was... not supported. And thank you to all those who supported a logical ban at second reading on the use of materials that are contrary to the purpose of the Education Law. As I was committed, I proposed a modified version for my third reading: Thus, the educational institution protects students from learning methods and learning materials that are contrary to the moral development of the aim of the Education Law. And so that there will be no disputes about how to measure virtue and who will now determine it, I propose to deal with this issue with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are laid down in the proposal 32 submitted by me and also further in this draft law. I would also add that such amendments would facilitate the work of the State Education Quality Service, because, as I understood in the Commission from Mrs Juhveviča, they are prepared to assess the compliance of materials with the statutory objective if the necessary criteria were to be met. ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1445	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1446	Dear colleagues, May God protect me from the question of morality... debates at the level at which they take place here in the Saeima! But let us not write an illiteracy in the law! I will read the following proposal: ‘The educational institution, except universities, protects the learner from information and methods in education and training that do not correspond to the provision of the educational moral development covered by the aim of this law.’ Dear colleagues, If there was a “higher education institution” written here, then I would understand that high school (including) should be moral and then not. And I could understand the aim of the applicant. If it is recorded here - a "university", then it is not allowed in colleges that give first-level higher education. But then the bachelors and the masters can be immoral and receive immoral material. Dear colleagues! Let us respect ourselves, and let us not write the absolute fools that simply look terriblely in the law! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis and a few more Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1447	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1448	Since the panel decided not to support this rule after discussions, the Commission did not take care of the legal purity that Mr Shadurski spoke about just now. Consequently, the author of the proposal is responsible for submitting the proposal. And I completely join Mr. Shadurskis in that version of this... Such provision shall not be included in the law. On behalf of the Commission, please do not support it. ( From the drug depot. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” , dep. V.Spolit: Butter! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1449	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 19, for - 5. The proposal is supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1450	19. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1451	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1452	Dear colleagues, Thank you for your support of the vote on the previous proposal. I would also like to offer additional protection against such materials the right of parents to ask for the release of a child from certain training hours, the subject or materials to be used which, in the opinion of the parents, may have a negative impact on the child's moral development. It is the duty of parents to protect the child from information inappropriate to him and to ensure the moral development of the child, which is laid down in both the Convention on the Protection of Children's Rights, the Civil Law and the Law on the Protection of Children's Rights. When parents exercise that responsibility, they always follow their own feelings and beliefs, and when they feel that the subject of a particular lesson is not appropriate for their child, the parent chooses not to bring the child to such an hour. In view of the fact that there are schools where there are strict arrangements for justification for hours delays and where there are no allowed delays due to family circumstances, then, of course, so that parents do not get too caught up with hourly exemptions and do not interfere in the learning process, the procedure in which such an exemption takes place and the permitted number of hours delayed could be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. My 32nd proposal, which is later in this bill, will also provide for those subjects where such exemption would not apply, for example, to music, Latvian history, physical culture and other subjects. Please support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1453	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1454	Well, there's nothing to say here, except, "The Earth is opening!" I will give you a few examples. Well, let us not, of course, speak of the long-known classic example - let us say, Darwin's teaching, which might be immoral in the sense of a religious family. Will such a family not learn biology? Let us then look further at the political spectrum. We have had many discussions about the interpretation of Latvia's history, and I imagine a little-educated family who lives in Russian information space and who is voting in elections about Latvia's hostile political forces. I think that such parents will ask to release their children from the history of Latvia. Then let's get a little generalized! If we talk, let us say, about some sort of supposed contradiction between religion and science - and, as we know, many people are in the power of such a mistake and they also have children - then, forgive me, any science is immoral. Let's go a little further! If I want my child to do some classes after an hour that takes up all his leisure time and raise his moral awareness, then I'm going to stop him from preparing his homework? I would be very happy if the proposers were also to think a little bit about how these proposals could then be put into practice. I am very sorry, Mr Wuzan, who unfortunately has this ungrateful role to play in combating windmills. And I will repeat the words from this troupe, Fredrih Schiller, which is also a little proof of the Saeima's vote today: "The gods themselves fight against stupidity in vain." The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Kirsis, V.Spolitis and a few more Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1455	The floor in the debate is for the Member, Janis Vacāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1456	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Pedagogy and the use of teaching methods are probably the area where the specialist feels any citizen of Latvia and any member of the Saeima. And I have to say this: much of what I wanted to say has already been said by Karlis Šadurskis. But if we look at where this kind of proposal comes from, it's not a secret that this kind of standard that failure to attend individual subjects could be encouraged by the family... Yes, in some parts of the world, education legislation permits this. But the question is what it is, let us say, the political culture, what the domestic culture is, what the education system in general and the understanding of the functions of the education system in these countries. And does Latvia, at this moment, introduce such a norm precisely because of the motives mentioned by Kārlis Šadurskis... Is this the best way we can avoid some of the risks that have been mentioned in our letter and listed today by Julia Stepanenko? We will be sittings of the Commission on these situations... that there could have been actions or situations in Latvia during the learning process that should be classified as moral hazard, we discussed with the Head of the State Service of Education Quality. Now, to be precise, at the time when this discussion took place in the Commission, the Head of Service informed her that she had four applications in her service for the last four years, if I am not mistaken, of which three proved to be unfounded and one is still at the stage of the evaluation. And that means that these risks are by nature not present. And really, as Kārlis Šadurskis said, we are trying to fight windmills, with our imaginations, we are acting like irresponsible teachers in school who are not responsible for anything. And here I invite all of you to read Article 51 of this same law, which very clearly states what responsibility the teacher has and what qualifications he must have. And there is this subject both of our morals discussed today and of national education. The teachers must take care of this, otherwise they must not be teachers, otherwise they must not work at school. And the protective mechanism has already been built. We are currently trying to create something else artificially, even though we do not really understand what these norms are, which we really want to live up to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1457	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1458	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. In my view, in my understanding, this proposal involves serious risks. The morals, however, are... The morals are based on an understanding of justice. With this proposal, we allow individual individuals, parents, parents' collectives, healthy schools to actually open the Pandora box and thus to their head, to determine what is right and what is wrong. I think it was said here that there may even be... concerns that we can also threaten the foundations of our educational science... That is, the origin of a human being in a natural way... Because there's definitely going to be parents who're going to criticise anyone... Even the mention of Darwin’s theory in the education process. I remember those times when Soviet literature - and scientific literature so also - laughed at the fact that different Americas... In other countries, Darwin’s words were in fact banned and severely criticised or even dismissed teachers who tried to convince their students of how a person appeared on the earth. I think that consistent application of this proposal can lead to the same result. I think that our morality theory in Latvian schools must be based on scientific evidence and that in no case can the education process depend on the choice of individuals. This is the only way to ensure that our societies are educated and moral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1459	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Lolita Chiganė.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1460	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, dear colleagues. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “The President!” ) I would like to say a great deal of personal thanks to Mr Pimenova for the speeches we have just heard. I'm sure... Uh, I'm sorry because the President is not here at the moment... So there's Mr. Vice-President. Thank you for that remark! And I really hope that there was also a discussion in the Group between Mrs Stepanenko and Mr Pimenova. I understand that Mrs Stepanenko has to defend her proposal here from the tribunal, but I hope that at least, informally, she has listened to the very precise and good analysis of her colleague, Mr Pimenova, that what we want to give our young people is the ability to think critically. But the ability to think critically is limited, limited, and seeks to eliminate Julia Stepanenko’s proposal. Of course, this proposal is not acceptable. And thank you once again to Mr. Pimenova. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1461	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Julija Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1462	Just a little comment. When I spoke about this proposal, I may have spoken very quietly first, so maybe some Members did not hear me. I said that the Cabinet of Ministers predicts... provide for rules that could then regulate the possible and perhaps foreseen self-esteem of these parents. So please also take this into account! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1463	Thank you. The debate is closed. Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 24, for - 23. The proposal is not supported. ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “Something of reason came back!” Depp. A.Lejiņš, V.Spolitis and V.Kirtis circles.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1464	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Dzintaras Zakis, which has been partly supported and included in the 21st report. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1465	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1466	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1467	Members call for a vote on proposal 21. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 6, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1468	22. - a proposal of a terminology nature for Member Dalder. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1469	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1470	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1471	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1472	24. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1473	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1474	25. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1475	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1476	26. - the proposal of the Minister for Education and Science Seile. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1477	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1478	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1479	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1480	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1481	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1482	29. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Supported and included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1483	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1484	30. - the proposal of Minister for Education and Science Seile, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1485	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1486	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1487	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1488	32. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1489	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1490	Ladies and gentlemen, I draw your attention to the fact that the proposal 32 relates to the proposal 18 you support. The proposal provides for the regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers in relation to how the criteria for ensuring moral education could be set. Since you have already supported Amendment 18, please also support this proposal, Amendment 32. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1491	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1492	I would like to remind you that the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are called “education standards”, already exist. And those standards already set the moral... and also the contents of the articles. This applies both to those subjects where the subject we are talking about is really covered, and these subjects are social knowledge, biology... They offer learning content according to the student’s age. Consequently, I think that if, for example, there are claims against the contents of the subject matter, then the existing regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers need to be amended. I would also like to say that if some additional literature appears on school tables, it is the responsibility of the school, not the responsibility of the state. It is, in fact, an offence that must be punished and, therefore, the holy anger that has been demonstrated here by the trouble, Mr Klaz, must in fact not be directed against standards, not against the existing education system, but against the actions of the administrators in question. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L.Čigāne, V.Spolišs and I.Vinķele.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1493	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1494	Dear colleagues, From a legal point of view, the Saeima has voted in favour of the previous proposal in the past. The specific proposal regulates to a large extent the detailed arrangements for its application. And to a large extent, my position now and Mr. Pimenova's position... The previous speech shows the extent to which the rules will work unclearly if we do not accept this. I therefore call for the 'in favour' of this proposal to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1495	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1496	In the Commission discussions, involving representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, representatives of the State Service of Quality of Education and representatives of the Council of Higher Education, these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers mentioned by Mr. Pimenov were, in substance, its logical basis, so we considered in the Commission that the 18th proposal supported by the Saeima today would not be supported. As the majority of the Saeima has now supported this proposal and this proposal refers to moral training, it would be logical that if 'a' was said, it is unfortunate to say 'b'.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1497	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1498	The Commission has therefore not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1499	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 19, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1500	33. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1501	Yes, there is no voting on the substance.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1502	34. - Member Silver's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1503	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1504	35. - Member Dalder's proposal. The Commission has partly supported and included 36. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1505	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1506	36. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1507	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1508	37. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1509	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1510	38. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1511	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1512	39. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1513	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1514	40. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1515	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for the Member, Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1516	Honourable Members! Allow me to read one beautiful quote that will allow you to confirm that the current system in schools is unfortunately unable to ensure basic order. The quote is simply very beautiful, and I think it will all like it: “I’m ready to say honestly that I’m not loyal to this country. I simply despise this regime. It also puts my children back and causes problems.” That's what Vladislav Rafaļski, 40th teacher at secondary school, says. Do you think that he was affected? No way, because his wife is the head of the school. I think that, under the current circumstances, the system of bilingualism and segregation of schools in Latvia, the system that we have that municipalities approve these school leaders, it does not justify itself in any way and, as we see, is not acceptable. Last year 15 837 Latvians and 3554 Russians were born in Latvia. So that ratio is about 4.5 versus 1. At the same time, we continue the segregation of schools, that is, Latvians go to Latvian schools, Russians go to Russian schools, the Roma go to Roma classes and the Navigers... Forgive me, the Africans, when they come from Africa, will apparently go to the schools of the Africans. We must not leave the choice of school directors to self-flow in municipalities where the majority of residents are not loyal to the state of Latvia, Latvian legislation, the Constitution of Latvia. Another example. A few years ago, there was an experiment in which Latvian television journalists claimed to be representatives of the 9 May Society. They called several schools, specifically five schools, and asked to remove historical posters on the occupation of Latvia. Three school directors from five of these posters were also removed. It will also be difficult for us to implement the proposal on the need for loyalty for heads of educational institutions, supported by the Commission in Article 59, if we leave this case in self-flow. Therefore, in a transitional situation, while there is bilingualism and segregation of schools in Latvia, I call for support for my proposal that heads of educational institutions be approved by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1517	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1518	Dear colleagues, I have one additional proposal which, of course, cannot be included in the table - while there are domestic murders in Latvia, let us not use sharp tools in kitchens. ( From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “It’s right!” ) I understand that Mr Kirštein has well thought about this proposal, but it is systemicly wrong because it is normal for educational institutions that are municipal educational institutions to be held there that a founder, who is largely responsible for the progress of the learning process, may also have an impact on the dismissal of the head of an educational institution. The current model, which is in Latvia, I think, is very proportionate, that the head of the educational institution is proposed by its founder and coordinated with the Ministry. Before I was elected to the Saeima, I had such an interesting situation in my work experience. I was the Chair of the Cathedral, and as the Chair of the Cathedral, I was responsible for the quality of the process, but I had no right to influence, for example, the release of staff. This is not a particularly nice situation. Therefore, while I respect some of Mr Kirštein's arguments, I nevertheless call for this proposal not to be supported from a systemic point of view.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1519	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1520	The desire to learn family language is a natural desire for everyone, so we, each of us, consider any school where we send to study our children as a continuation of our family. That is why international legislation, both in solid form, when countries sign, ratify and then complete, and in soft recommendation form, directs all countries to provide everyone with the opportunity to learn their own family language. I now refer to the recommendations made by the OSCE in The Hague, which were adopted in 1996 and which made it very clear that the child should learn most of his or her family's language, or mainly, of course, within the framework of the national education system. This means complying with the law, ensuring that the process of integration of society is carried out, but on the other hand, there must be no breach of this desire that I am talking about - that is, the desire for the child to be taught in the family language. The internal diversity of Latvia's people is not a disadvantage; it is our nation, Latvia's political nations, riches. In fact, it is not a challenge; it is a source for our future development. And any attempt to nivel or unify all of us in any particular cultural frame will only cause us serious harm. I therefore simply warn and ask fellow Members to act with great responsibility and to speak when it comes to minority rights in the Republic of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1521	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1522	Thank you to Mr. Pimenova for provoked. I wanted to talk when we came to the next draft law... Before the war there were about 10 ethnos in Latvia, excluding Latvians. During the Soviet occupation, about 120 ethnos were flooded here...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1523	Mr. Kirstein! I ask you, however, to talk about your proposal - adoption, dismissal...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1524	Yeah. It's about the proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1525	For the first time, you have been telling us why you think so. I would again ask you, however, to talk about Amendment 40.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1526	Yeah. So, if we're in schools... If there's directors in schools... As a representative of the 4th May Declaration Club, I have visited several schools, and I will tell you that children and teachers have spoken very well, for example, in Daugavpils schools with Russian. At the same time, children in Rezekne were sitting with the inscriptions “Putin SSR” and so on... So it all depends on the principal of the school. But I will end with just one statement that the linguisticist Joshua Fishman, analysing the role of education and the economic development of countries with multilingualism, has found that countries with a higher level of education, a more developed and stable economy are characterised by multilingualism; economic progress is expressed in linguistically homogeneous countries where the use of one language in society makes it easier to communicate with one another, as is the case in Switzerland, which is divided into cantons, or in Belgium, where these languages are separated. And let us not mix, Mr. Pimenov, multilingualism and minority education! We know, in fact, that we only have a Latvian-speaking and Russian-speaking society. Thus, in fact, it is only a question of multilingualism and not a question of minority schools. I therefore call once again for my proposal for a transitional period to be supported. I agree with Mr Šadurski. Yeah, if there were normal municipalities... Go to Rezekne and see what the municipality is there and go to some good Riga school and see what's going on there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1527	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1528	On those schools in Daugavpils, I think that there was not a Putin, but a Tutin written from our party. But in fact, the proposal is very hidden, and Mr Kirštein has indeed presented it with a very deep thought. The Ministry of Education and Science has made a statement that she will not be in the position to close minority schools, but this proposal will actually fortify this, because the Ministry of Education and Science, which, in principle, the National Association, in my opinion, is very keen to monitor, with the appointment of school directors in their inner torpedoes. And in reality that is the aim of this proposal. Consequently, I also call for this not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1529	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1530	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that the main arguments why this proposal was not supported were precisely this systemic inconsistency, which Mr Kārlis Šadurski spoke about. On behalf of the Commission, please do not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1531	Thank you. Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -11, for -55, for -4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1532	41. - Dzintaras Zakis's proposal. Partially supported, included 42. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1533	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1534	42. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1535	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1536	43. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1537	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1538	44. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1539	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1540	45. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1541	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1542	46. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1543	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1544	47. - Dzintard Zakis's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1545	48. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1546	49. - Dzintard Zakis's proposal. Partially supported, included 50. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1547	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1548	50. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1549	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1550	51. - Dzintaras Zakis's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1551	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1552	Also 52. - Dzintaras Zakis's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1553	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1554	53. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1555	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1556	54. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Partially supported, included 55. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1557	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1558	55. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1559	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1560	56. - The Member is waiting for Berzin's proposal. Supported and included 59. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1561	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1562	57. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported and included 59. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1563	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1564	58. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Partly supported and included 59. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1565	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1566	59. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1567	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1568	60. - Dzintard Zakis's proposal. Partly supported and included 61. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1569	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1570	61. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1571	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1572	62. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1573	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1574	Dear colleagues, I will not teach you any more! The last time I turn to you today. This is the third and last way I intend to take care of the moral development of our children. ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “It can no longer be done!” ) I call for the Board of Education, which, according to law, consists mainly of parents, to decide, in addition to the tasks already delegated, which materials should not be used in a particular school. I would add that the Legal Office did not oppose this proposal. It was actually created in cooperation with the Law Office, so that in view of this, the guidelines for moral education have already been approved in this law. I call on you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1575	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1576	Dear colleagues, Tell me, which body would be the right one to decide on the scientific research methods that our scientists will use in experiments, taking part in projects funded by the European Union? ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “Absolute idiotism!” ) Take a little look at this. Think about it! Pedagogy is the same science as others. The Board of Educational Institutions has reasonable and proportionate roles, including deciding on teaching materials that are centrally purchased and used by pupils by the school. But, dear colleagues, now let's not bring this thing to a point of absurdity! ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “That’s it!” ) The Board cannot decide on methods! Dear colleagues, when you have already forgotten a little today's debate and today's votes, someone in any humor program will show you quotes from today's verb, and then you will think: "Who insane could vote it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ From the dep of the grass. ” — From the dep. V.Spolitis: Bravo! The circle of some Members is one of the unity of some political groups.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1577	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1578	Yes, indeed, in the Commission, when discussing this proposal, it was also identified that the school board - it is the institution where various organisational issues are agreed with the school management. The methodological issues are those that need to be decided upon by professional educators. Therefore, this proposal was not supported by the Commission either. On behalf of the Commission, I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1579	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 62. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 41, against - 26, refraining from - 11. The proposal is supported. ( A PASSENGER’S WORDER)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1580	63. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1581	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1582	64. - Member Zakis's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1583	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1584	65. - Member Zakis's proposal. Partly supported and included 66. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1585	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1586	66. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1587	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1588	67. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1589	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1590	68. - Member Dalder's proposal. Partly supported and included 69. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1591	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1592	69. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1593	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1594	70. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1595	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1596	71. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1597	Members agree.... ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) I am sorry. Member Silver asks for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for 71. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1598	72. - Member Zakis's proposal. Partly supported and included 73. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1599	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1600	73. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1601	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 73. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1602	74. - Dzintaras Zakis's proposal. Partly supported and included 75. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1603	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1604	75. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported. ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1605	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for 75. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1606	76. - Member Zakis's proposal. Partly supported and included 77. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1607	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1608	77. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1609	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1610	78. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 80 have been supported and included. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1611	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1612	79. - Member Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1613	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1614	And 80. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1615	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1616	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law "Amendments to the Education Act" at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1617	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 12, for - 2. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Before we start looking at the next item on the agenda, I informed you that the Saeima Bureau had received a proposal from five Members - from Members Agešina, Āboltiņa, Smilten, Brigmann and Barch - to continue today's sitting without interruption until all the items on the agenda have been examined. Do Members have objections? ( From the medicine: “That’s right! Right!” ) Members shall not object. So the sitting is continued without interruption. The next item is the draft law on insurance and reinsurance, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1618	Dear colleagues, The draft law for the third reading was submitted 176 proposals. ( The head of the sitting knocked out the hammer.) I understand that the subject was very touching. 176 proposals have been received, and since the applicants are in fact only three - the Legal Office, the Commission responsible itself and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Asheraden, who has submitted most of the proposals, I ask for your permission, as before, not to mention each time... If I do not mention who the applicant is, it can be understood by default that it is Mr Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1619	Are Members not against this approach? Members shall not object. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1620	Thank you. 1. - a proposal submitted by the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1621	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1622	Proposal 2: Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1623	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1624	Proposal No 3. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1625	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1626	Proposal No 4. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1627	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1628	Proposal No 5 Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1629	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1630	Proposal No 6 Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1631	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1632	Proposal No 7. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1633	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1634	Proposal No 8. He also received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1635	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1636	The same is true for Proposal 9. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1637	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1638	Proposal No 10. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1639	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1640	Proposal No 11 Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1641	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1642	Proposal No 12. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1643	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1644	Proposal No 13. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1645	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1646	Proposal No 14. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1647	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1648	Proposal No 15. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1649	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1650	Proposal No 16 It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1651	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1652	Proposal No 17 Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1653	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1654	Proposal 18: Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1655	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1656	Proposal No 19. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1657	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1658	Proposal 20: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1659	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1660	Proposal No 21. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1661	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1662	Proposal No 22. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1663	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1664	Proposal 23: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1665	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1666	Proposal No 24. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1667	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1668	Proposal No 25. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1669	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1670	Proposal No 26. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1671	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1672	Proposal No 27. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1673	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1674	Proposal No 28 Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1675	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1676	Proposal No 29 Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1677	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1678	Proposal No 30 Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1679	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1680	Proposal No 31. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1681	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1682	Proposal No 32. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1683	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1684	Proposal No 33. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1685	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1686	Proposal No 34. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1687	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1688	Proposal No 35. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1689	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1690	Proposal No 36. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1691	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1692	Proposal No 37. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1693	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1694	Proposal No 38 Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1695	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1696	Proposal 39: Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1697	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1698	Proposal No 40. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1699	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1700	Proposal No 41. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1701	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1702	Proposal No 42. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1703	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1704	Proposal No 43. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1705	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1706	Proposal No 44. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1707	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1708	Proposal No 45. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1709	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1710	Proposal No 46. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1711	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1712	47. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1713	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1714	Proposal No 48. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1715	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1716	Proposal 49: Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1717	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1718	Proposal No 50. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1719	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1720	Proposal 51: Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1721	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1722	Proposal No 52. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1723	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1724	Proposal 53: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1725	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1726	54. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1727	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1728	Proposal 55: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1729	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1730	Proposal 56: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1731	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1732	Proposal 57: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1733	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1734	Proposal 58: Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1735	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1736	Proposal 59: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1737	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1738	60. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1739	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1740	61. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1741	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1742	Proposal No 62. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1743	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1744	Proposal No 63. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1745	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1746	Proposal 64: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1747	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1748	Proposal No 65. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1749	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1750	Proposal 66: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1751	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1752	Proposal No 67. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1753	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1754	Proposal No 68. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1755	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1756	Proposal 69: Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1757	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1758	Proposal 70: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1759	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1760	Proposal No 71. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1761	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1762	Proposal 72: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1763	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1764	Proposal 73: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1765	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1766	Proposal 74. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1767	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1768	Proposal 75: Regulation (EU, Euratom) No Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1769	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1770	Proposal 76: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1771	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1772	77. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1773	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1774	Proposal 78: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1775	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1776	Proposal 79. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1777	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1778	Proposal No 80. Supported. Proposal 81: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1779	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1780	Proposal 82: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1781	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1782	Proposal 83: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1783	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1784	Proposal 84: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1785	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1786	Proposal No 85. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1787	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1788	Proposal 86: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1789	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1790	Proposal No 87. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1791	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1792	Proposal 88: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1793	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1794	Proposal 89: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1795	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1796	Proposal No 90. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1797	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1798	Proposal No 91. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1799	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1800	Proposal 92: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1801	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1802	Proposal 93: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1803	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1804	Proposal 94: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1805	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1806	Proposal 95. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1807	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1808	Proposal No 96. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1809	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1810	Proposal 97. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1811	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1812	Proposal No 98. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1813	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1814	Proposal 99: Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1815	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1816	Proposal No 100. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1817	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1818	Proposal 101: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1819	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1820	Proposal 102: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1821	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1822	Proposal 103: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1823	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1824	Proposal 104. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1825	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1826	Proposal 105: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1827	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1828	Proposal 106. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1829	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1830	Proposal 107: It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1831	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1832	Proposal 108. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1833	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1834	Proposal 109. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1835	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1836	Proposal 110: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1837	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1838	Proposal 111: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1839	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1840	Proposal 112: Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1841	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1842	Proposal 113: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1843	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1844	Proposal 114. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1845	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1846	115. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1847	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1848	Proposal 116. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1849	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1850	Proposal 117: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1851	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1852	Proposal 118: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1853	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1854	Proposal 119: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1855	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1856	Proposal 120: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1857	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1858	Proposal 121. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1859	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1860	Proposal 122: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1861	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1862	Proposal 123. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1863	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1864	Proposal 124. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1865	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1866	Proposal 125: Regulation of the European Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1867	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1868	126. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1869	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1870	127. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1871	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1872	128. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1873	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1874	129. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1875	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1876	130. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1877	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1878	131. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1879	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1880	Proposal 132: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1881	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1882	Proposal 133: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1883	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1884	Proposal 134. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1885	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1886	Proposal 135: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1887	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1888	Proposal 136: Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1889	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1890	Proposal 137: Supported by 138. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1891	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1892	Proposal 138: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1893	It's the commission responsible...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1894	... the Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1895	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1896	139. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1897	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1898	Proposal 140. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1899	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1900	Proposal 141: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1901	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1902	Proposal 142: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1903	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1904	Proposal 143: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1905	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1906	Proposal 144. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1907	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1908	Proposal 145: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1909	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1910	Proposal 146. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1911	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1912	Proposal 147: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1913	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1914	Proposal 148. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1915	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1916	149. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1917	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1918	150. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1919	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1920	151. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1921	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1922	152. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1923	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1924	153. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1925	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1926	154. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1927	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1928	155. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1929	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1930	156. - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1931	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1932	157. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1933	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1934	158. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1935	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1936	159. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1937	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1938	160. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1939	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1940	161. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1941	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1942	162. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1943	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1944	163. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1945	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1946	164. - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1947	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1948	165. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1949	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1950	166. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 167. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1951	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1952	167. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1953	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1954	168. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1955	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1956	169. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1957	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1958	170. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1959	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1960	171. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 172.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1961	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1962	172. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1963	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1964	173. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1965	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1966	The same is true of 174. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1967	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1968	175. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1969	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1970	And 176. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1971	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1972	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank both the consultants and the staff of the Legal Bureau for their really huge contribution to the creation of this law. I call for the vote on the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1973	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on Insurance and Reinsurance at third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1974	Dear colleagues, we are working on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media. 13 proposals have been received for the second reading of the draft law, but the Ministry of Culture has submitted a letter to the Commission in which it withdraws its proposals 3, 6 and 8. 1. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Melbard. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1975	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1976	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1977	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1978	Proposal 3 has therefore been withdrawn. 4. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Melbard. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1979	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1980	5. - The motion of the Saeima Members, Boris Cilevičs and Regina Lochmele-Lunova, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1981	Members call for a vote. Please call me! Mr. Neighbours, something about the procedure you wanted to say? ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš’ intermediate call: “Vote “ Against”!” ) No, wait! There can be no more debate. We have started the vote. So let's vote in favour of 5. - the proposal from Members Cilevičs and Lochmeles-Lunova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -16, for -37, for -6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1982	6. - the proposal by Minister for Culture Melbard, which has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1983	We shall proceed with proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1984	7. - An offer from the Saeima, Mr Cilevičs and Mr Lochmeles-Lunova, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1985	Members call for a vote. Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Artus Neminiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1986	Hello, colleagues! Okay. The specific proposal put forward by Lochmele-Lunov and Cilevičs. I'll tell you how these things are actually happening there. It's really fast. So there is a proposal to supplement the draft law at second reading with the words “the National Electronic Media Council” with the words “or the appropriate authority of another Member State of the European Union in the regulator”... ( From the drug depot. V.Orlovs: “It’s written – off!” ) Yes, we... Well... We're about... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. V.Orlovs: “Learn to Read!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1987	You can only talk about Amendment 7... On the proposal only. The second reading is not about the draft law as a whole, but only about the specific proposal. Proposal 7 reads: ‘The fourth paragraph of Article 3 of the draft law shall not be affected.’
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1988	Okay! So where is the problem? So...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1989	Yes, go on with the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1990	Yeah... No... Well, I'm... 5, 6, 7. - They're going together... You're here for me... You're... Thank you, okay. Then, please vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1991	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1992	I would like to add that all these proposals made by Members Boris Cilevičs and Lochmele-Lunova are, in their way, linked. Consequently, this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1993	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal from Members Cilevičs and Lochmeles-Lunova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 15, for - 48, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1994	8. is the proposal of Minister of Culture Daces Melbarde, which has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1995	Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1996	9. is a proposal from the Minister of Culture, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1997	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1998	10. is the motion of the Member, Kirštein, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U1999	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for the Member, Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2000	Honourable Members! We know that advertising is part of the opportunity to develop or - quite the contrary! - to slow down the development of a television channel. Yesterday, before today's meeting, I watched a regular lies broadcast by the Kremlin on a manipulative lying channel called “Special correspondent”, where I was told about the fate of the flighter Savchenko who was abducted in Ukraine. ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “It’s already advertising!” ; from a fraction ASSOCIATED: “Can you get a DVD?” ) This programme was interrupted by advertising that advertised the store Prisma, the sausage manufacturer Artek, the stores Rimi, Sportland, Jysk and the Road Safety Department had also managed to place their advertising there. After 10 minutes the program was stopped again with “Līvu alus”, “Alfa”, “Smotri.lv” and some advertising of Russian films. And then it's a logical question: why do Latvian companies need to support dual language and Kremlin propaganda? NATO Centre of Excellence for Strategic Communication has currently carried out a study, which was also presented by members of our Saeima. There is a very detailed explanation of this lying, population processing technology in hybrid war conditions. What makes it sense for us to increase spending on NATO and defence if we have segmented schools where new snipers are prepared, and television is broadcast, as I said, the ideological settings of the Kremlin? In addition, we have issued an additional 54 thousand residence permits for Russian citizens and 4.5 thousand residence permits for Ukrainian citizens who speak Russian mainly. The Latvian is, of course, kind. He will refer to the absence of Brussels Directives, so that nothing else should be done, or he will say that the authorisation to place advertising in programmes made only in Latvia and the European Union is a gross violation of the Competition Law. At the same time, we know that we have been told in the Constitution that Latvian is the main and only language of the country. It's not... The principles of the Constitution are higher, and we can change this situation with special laws. Latvia has a catastrophic situation in this area, television propagates this multilingualism - also with the help of this financed advertising. And, as I said, yesterday I read... We have a magazine “Domužķis” in the Saeima, the 2nd of which has published a study on the situation in Latvia. That really is catastrophic, colleagues! The role of Russian has been growing rapidly since 2008 thanks to television. We know that ethnic diversity was created during the occupation, as I have already mentioned, by bringing 120 new ethnosiss to 10 other ethnics. Russian was declared an international language of communication, but in schools, as well as on television and radio, it was recommended to use it as a second mother tongue, with the idea that in the future the word “home” will remain only one word, while the second word as a mother tongue will be rejected. The principle of spontaneous communication is applied, as has just been established by scientists, i.e. that newcomers speak Russian only, and therefore the role of TV and radio in Russian is increased. So the number of these media is increasing, and also Lattelecom, which has the majority of shares in Latvia, is very generously flooding these various programmes, including international programmes, which have been translated only into Russian. It is imposed on Latvians that economic activity in Latvia is not possible without knowledge of Russian language. ‘ Panorama interviews company managers, starting with “Dzintara” and ending with “Liepājas metalurgs”, who do not understand any words in Latvian. Gradually, this idea is inserted into the subconscious, that without Russian you cannot take a step. The aim is official Russian... obtaining official or regional status in Russian in the European Union. In Latvia this policy is supported by the Kremlin’s influence agent, directors of large economic enterprises, some politicians and fools. ( FROM a faction: “Observations! ” ) As I mentioned, the linguist Joshua Fishman has studied... By the way, Latvia is at the end of 4th place, behind us there are only Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania after the gross domestic product at present, and we are increasingly falling behind every year from Estonia and Lithuania, which is to some extent the result of this language policy. In Quebec... Latvia has to learn from Quebec, which, by adopting specific laws, has achieved that even now, in English dominant territories, the use of some English words in francophonic companies damages a person's career. 20 years ago Estonian psychologists found that the psychological division was not between East Estonia and the rest of Estonia, but between North and South Estonia because they watched Finnish television in northern Estonia, while in the south they watched Moscow and local television.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2001	Mr Kirštein, your debate is over! The question is: do Members agree that Member Kirštein also takes the opportunity to speak a second time on this proposal for two more minutes... that then he no longer applies to speak again? ( Intercretion from the Hall: “Let it speak! ” ) Members agree. You have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2002	Thank you. So psychologists and sociologists had noticed a difference in the sense of the Estonian nation’s inhabitants about various political and social processes. This shows only that nothing is now as important as the role of television in the process of strengthening language and statehood. I think we all know how serious it is. You can, of course, say here that the NEPLP will be able to control something there, that, you know, it's not so terrible in the context of this hybrid war, but we know very well that the NEPLP does not control anything, and I also doubt whether the re-election of it will bring something, because, for example, those who have watched the so-called Solovyov show in which Žirinovskis or other Russian performers have spoken... You will understand that these broadcasts can be banned three times a day, as Lithuanians do! For example, a recent program called on Ukraine to send multiples that would blow up railway stations and fuel tanks. There was, of course, no reaction from Latvia. With Lattelecom, these channels continue to operate in the economic chain. I would therefore like to end my modest speech by calling on the Saeima, however, to support emergency law measures for the protection of the Latvian language, even if someone would argue that we are in breach of the Competition Law or any Brussels Directive, referring to the fact that the Constitution does not provide for such a situation. And we will also have more money for programmes created in Latvia. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2003	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Lolita Chiganė.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2004	Dear Mr. Many. Dear colleagues, In his speech, Mr Kirštein, to a certain extent, really touched on an issue that is problematic and which was also debated at the meeting of the Commission when looking at these amendments to the Law on Electronic Media. In particular, the problem is that there are re-broadcasts in Latvia, which do not invest in the creation of content, the creation of local content. So they've been taken, programs prepared somewhere else. These programs include advertising content created in Latvia, where we talk about our well-known stores – “Rimi” and others – images are shown, for example, with linguists and oaks, John’s cheese and so on, and it gives additional credibility to this content, which is created outside the borders of Latvia. Mr Kirstein pointed out - and that is indeed the case! - that this content often includes propaganda, thus also propaganda in the interest of Russia's ruling policy, which is hostile to the state of Latvia and hostile to others - our neighbours. Thus, by adding these local advertisements, this propaganda is given additional credibility. And, of course, our media, which operate in Latvia and create their own analytical, educational and children's programmes, do not receive any advertising income that they could invest in improving their content. So this is the problem, and we need to think about how local content advertising can be placed in re-broadcasted programmes. Partly, this law already provides for amendments - that is, in Article 19 - which partly address this problem. However, the truth is that we are currently operating in Latvia and subject to the European Union Audiovisual Media Services Directive, and the scope of this directive as regards Latvia's right to prohibit the placement of local content advertisements in certain re-broadcast programmes is currently unclear. There are different interpretations. There are experts who say that this can be done, namely, to prevent such local advertising, which would thus legitimise this content, but there are experts who say that it would not be possible to do so. The Commission has now agreed that we need additional expertise on this issue and, if necessary, could make amendments to the third reading, which would really mean that such programmes, which also present hostile content to the Latvian state, would not include these local ads with Latvian Janis cheese, fires and essential Latvian symbols. However, Mr Kirštein's proposal does not address this issue at the moment, although it presents a problem, so I urge Members not to support Mr Kirštein's proposal at the moment, but to take into account that the third reading must address this problem in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2005	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? There is nothing to add. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -11, for -47, for -4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2006	11. is the proposal of the Members of the Saeima, Boris Cilevičs and Lochmeles-Lunova, which has not been supported. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2007	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal from Members Cilevičs and Lochmeles-Lunova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2008	12. is a proposal from the Minister of Culture, which has been partly supported and included in the 13th report. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2009	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2010	And 13 is the proposal of the commission responsible, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2011	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2012	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2013	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 54, against - 15, refrains - not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2014	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2015	August 3. The next item is the draft law on "Amendments to the Transparency Act", second reading. On behalf of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government - Member Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2016	The National Administration and Municipal Commission has prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disclosure of Information”. This draft law is designed to take over the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013 and therefore these amendments are necessary. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2017	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2018	2. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission supports and includes 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2019	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2020	3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2021	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2022	4. - Member Dalder's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2023	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2024	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2025	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2026	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2027	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2028	7. - the proposal of Mr Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2029	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2030	8 / 8 - Member Dalder's proposal. The Commission did not receive any aid.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2031	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2032	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2033	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2034	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2035	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2036	11. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2037	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2038	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2039	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disclosure of Information”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2040	The deadline for submitting proposals for the third reading of the draft law is June 30, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2041	June 30th. Members shall not object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2042	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2043	The next item is the draft law on asylum, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2044	Colleagues, we work with the Asylum Act. 79 proposals have been received. 1. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2045	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2046	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2047	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2048	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2049	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2050	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2051	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2052	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2053	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2054	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2055	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2056	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2057	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2058	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2059	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2060	9. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2061	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2062	Also 10. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2063	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2064	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2065	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2066	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2067	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2068	13. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2069	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2070	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2071	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2072	Also 15. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2073	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2074	16. - Proposal by Evik Siliņa, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2075	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2076	17. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2077	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2078	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2079	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2080	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2081	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2082	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2083	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2084	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2085	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2086	22. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2087	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2088	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2089	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2090	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2091	Members agree. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2092	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2093	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2094	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2095	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2096	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2097	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2098	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2099	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2100	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2101	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2102	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2103	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2104	31. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2105	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2106	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2107	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2108	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2109	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2110	34. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2111	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2112	35. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2113	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2114	36. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2115	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2116	37. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2117	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2118	38. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2119	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2120	39. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2121	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2122	40. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2123	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2124	41. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2125	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2126	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2127	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2128	43. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2129	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2130	44. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2131	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2132	45. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2133	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2134	46. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2135	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2136	47. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2137	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2138	48. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2139	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2140	49. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2141	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2142	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2143	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2144	51. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2145	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2146	52. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2147	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2148	53. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2149	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2150	54. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2151	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2152	55. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2153	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2154	56. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2155	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2156	Proposal 57 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2157	Called it, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2158	Yeah. 58. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2159	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2160	59. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2161	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2162	60. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2163	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2164	61. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2165	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2166	62. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported, included 63. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2167	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2168	63. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2169	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2170	64. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2171	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2172	65. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2173	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2174	66. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in 67. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2175	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2176	67. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2178	68. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2179	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2180	69. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, including 71. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2181	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2182	70. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 71 have also been included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2183	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2184	71. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2185	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2186	72. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2187	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2188	73. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2189	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2190	74. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2191	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2192	75. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2193	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2194	76. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2195	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2196	77. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2197	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2198	78. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2199	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2200	And 79. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2201	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2202	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2203	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on asylum in second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2204	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 20 August.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2205	August 20th. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2206	Dear colleagues, See ‘Amendments to the Law on Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry’. Draft law is ready for second reading. 1. - Member Andrejs Elksniņš' proposal to add a third part of Article 2 of the law...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2207	Thank you. Let's start a debate. There will be a debate on the name of Member Karl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2208	Yes, colleagues! I, of course, support the fact that this final result can be confirmed by an absolute majority of the Commission, because its experience has been... Oh, that's... On the second proposal, I will come...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2209	We are continuing the debate. There will be a debate on the name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2210	Dear colleagues, There is no doubt that our colleague, Elksniņš, has put forward this proposal if he so wishes. The question is whether or not Members of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry have the right to work with national secrets. There is no doubt that the tolerance must be, and the law also provides that a Member, every Member, not just one who works on a parliamentary committee of inquiry, can acquire the right to work with national secrets. But what about our colleague Elksniņš? He suggested that the members of the committee should not be required to have specific access to national secrecy in the course of their parliamentary investigations. What does that mean? It is proposed to state that if a person is elected... has become a member of a parliamentary committee of inquiry and automatically has the right to work with state secrets. This is not a question that should be dealt with in this law! If Mr. Elksniņš has such an opinion, it can be discussed, but there is a special law “On State Secret”, which determines how people can get the opportunity to work with the relevant documents, with the relevant information. So, first of all, there is a legal error here. The proposal had to be presented in another legislative proposal. Secondly. If we look at this special law, we will see that it is clearly written there that every Member has the right to work with sensitive documents. But what's the order? If a Member wishes to do so, a test shall be carried out. And if there's no problem, he can get a tolerance. But if we determine that there is no need for a test, then it can create a big, big problem. I would also like to work in the Saeima, where this issue is not relevant at all... that the people elect people who can be entrusted with a state secret, but it is well known that this is not the case and that there are people in our Saeima who cannot be entrusted with a state secret. Consequently, there must be a test. Of course, one can also offer such a solution - a test for all Members, but as far as I know, some do not want such a test for them. They do not even want to stand and qualify for posts because they understand the problems they face. Consequently, this proposal cannot be supported for two reasons: it is presented in the wrong bill and it offers an uncorrected solution. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2211	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2212	Yes, honourable colleagues! Listening to Mr Judin's ideas on the proposal in question, it is, above all, very, very surprising. I will not, however, be as beautiful as Mr Shadurski's in his statements as regards those drafts and everything else, but to a large extent, I have the question: is Mr Judine the same Mr Judine at the Saeima sitting today who was sitting at the Legal Commission, because you are talking to each other with absolutely exclusive things. I will explain the substance of the proposal in question. For the moment, honourable colleagues, not in this law, so not in Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry, but in the State Secrets Act, there are cases in which an official is to be examined for the allocation of national secrecy. State secret shall be granted if you wish to hold a post, let us say, the position of a member of the commission, the position of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, the position of the Prime Minister or the President of the State and so on, but at the same time Section 12 of the Law “On State Secret”, for example, in Part Four and Part Five, there are regulated cases in which admission to work with the state secret is not necessary. Think of you! In our country, there are people who work with objects of national secrecy, even if they do not have a tolerance to work with a state secret. Which of these people are then mentioned in accordance with Section 12 of the Law on State Secret? They're sworn lawyers! There is no sworn lawyer in Latvia who would be admitted to work with a state secret, but if, for example, a state official steals a state secret, the lawyer works with this state secret. In this particular case, he shall sign a separate undertaking stating that he has been informed that it is a national secret which cannot be disclosed that responsibility for disclosure is envisaged. What more are the officials? There are also officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office as drivers of the process. There are judges as drivers of proceedings. And all this is written in the law “On State Secret” - Mr. Judine, read it in the law! - the fifth paragraph of Article 12. What is written in Section 12 (4) of the Law “On State Secret”? It states that the members of the parliamentary committee of inquiry are also not required for the performance of their duties. Namely, if the Saeima decides today to conduct a parliamentary investigation into possible violations of the state security services, special services in operation, then the admission of these people to work with the state secret is not necessary. Why? And the answer is very clear and well-founded: it would not, however, be logical if the national safety authorities were now to audit who of the Members of the Saeima - from you, from the present - will check their work. Well, for example, they won't want to see the Zariņš there, there's no tolerance for Zariņš. He won't want an airbeat, he won't have any tolerance. Mr Shadursky will not want to see him on that commission of inquiry for himself - neither will he be allowed to do so. Mr. Moves, the same thing. Where is the problem now? The problem has arisen in the position of the Constitutional Protection Bureau, which, contrary to what has been pointed out by the Legal Commission, for example, by Mr Kūtra as the former President of the Constitutional Court, as well as by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima... And so, and so... And Mr. Judin, by the way, too... For no reason, at that time, there was no reason why the Constitutional Protection Bureau did not apply Section 12, Paragraph 4 of the Law on State Secret... Then he thought he didn't... SAB... that, however, we must also ask, in this case, in the framework of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, for this kind of admission to work with a state secret. What is the purpose and nature of my specific proposal? This law would incorporate the same norm, which is provided for in Section 12, Paragraph Four of the Law “On State Secret”, so that there would be no confusion, interpretation, or any difficulty for one other Member. Moreover, the specific problem is confirmed by the position of the Legal Commission; it has sent a letter to the Permanent Working Group of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions that this situation is not normal with this case.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2213	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Andrejs Judine, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2214	Colleagues! I understand very well Mr. Elksniņš' pain, and I have no doubt that he wants to solve the problem in substance. And that is exactly very positive. And he just quoted a number of verses, several laws and looks very convincing. Well, I can continue to tell you, colleagues, in the same style, that the law referred to by Mr. Elksniņš - Article 12, third paragraph, point 4 of the law “On State Secret” indicates: access to the state secret and the right to use it for the performance of their duties is for Members of the Saeima unless there is a restriction in the third paragraph of Article 9 of this law. One restriction is therefore: access to information is denied to Members for whom verification has established facts which call into question the reliability and ability to preserve national secrecy. So the test must be! You propose a procedure: all Members are elected and they do not have the right to work on the country's secrets; we will now form - no matter what issue - an investigative commission, we will vote for the people, and they will have the opportunity to work without scrutiny. Well, that's not right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2215	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2216	Hello! Dear colleagues, In that regard, there is indeed a conflict of laws. Mr Judin very rightly says that the first paragraph of Article 12 of the Law on State Secret really emphasizes that Members of the Saeima have the right to know state secrecy if they have received this access... Let's go, let's go, let's However, the fourth paragraph of that article contains a special provision which deals with parliamentary committees which... for the members of the commission, and in this case here... So, if there's a special rule... if members of the commission have been told that they do not need this tolerance, then it would not be possible for the special rule to rule out what is... That it would be some sort of duplication... what has already been recorded in the first subparagraph. Thus, there should be no duplication of rules as to the substance, and the fourth provides for a specific regulation. Secondly. If the law on parliamentary commissions does not require such a norm, then I would only be happy if there were no different interpretations of this norm in practice, which are contained in the law on state secrecy. If the representative of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima at the sitting of the Legal Commission says that here - there are no two thoughts! - everything is clear that there is no contradiction in the rules, then I would very much like our safety authorities to interpret this rule in the same way. As the head of the commission, I have a high risk of interpreting this provision, which has been entered into the law, to allow members of the commission to get acquainted with documents containing state secrets and then after a decision of the heads of the State Security Service to lose access to state secrets. Perhaps, however, we should achieve the exact wording of the law here in the Saeima, so that the interpretation is not ambiguous and that everyone knows what they can or cannot. I will therefore support this proposal from Mr Elksniņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2217	Thank you. Name to Member Andrejs Elksniņš, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2218	(From the drug depot. A. Berzins: “We understand you!” ) Dear colleagues! Well, I don't need to let it work with a state secret! I still know more than they did! ( Medications.) Well, I don't need it! The question is, yes, indeed from the point of view of the legal technique, to what extent the rules which work, which are adopted, are clear, understandable and so on. There is a problem, and everyone recognises it. Legal Commission, too. Unfortunately, I was really surprised today by what Mr Judin said that he, like such an agent, was on the watch of the national security authorities. Well, what? You work for them after Michael Walter's work? Are you working for them? Well, don't, Mr. Judin, yes!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2219	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2220	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! I would like to clarify a little what Mr Elksniņš said about what the law on state secrecy is saying about parliamentary committees. The law says literally as follows: “Access to the secret of the state and the right to use it for the performance of its duties shall be to parliamentary committees appointed by the Saeima.” This is about a commission as a collegial institution, but every Member who will operate in such a commission must be a person who meets the requirements for obtaining a state tolerance in accordance with Section 9, Paragraph Three of this Law. Only those Members who do not prohibit access to national secrecy may act on a parliamentary committee of inquiry and only when they have access to national secrecy.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2221	Thank you. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2222	Dear colleagues, I will be very brief. I would like to say that the permission of the collegial institutions does not give national secrecy. The Commission does not give permission to national secrecy, but it does give it to the people who work there.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2223	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there any more to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2224	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2225	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Elksny's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 34, for - 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2226	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2227	Members want to have a debate. The floor in the debate for the Member, Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2228	Colleagues, the rule in force for us requires that the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry be signed by all members of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. This means that, in order for the report to have taken place, the consent of all the Members in it is necessary. It sounds very harsh, but I think that parliamentary investigation commissions are very much comparable to the jury, because if the jury has the presupposers or representatives of the whole society who decide on the fault of a person and, if they see the fault, the judge sets a fine on that basis. Then the parliamentary committee of inquiry, acting as a jury court, namely representatives of all political groups in equal numbers from each political group, decides on the conclusions. I think that such a conclusion would be... In order to represent the opinion of the entire Saeima, it is necessary that all members of the committee of inquiry agree to its conclusions. This means that if there is a disagreement, we need to discuss it. There should be concessions to those Members who object. In order to find the common denominator, where there is the same sense, we need to make some concessions to those Members who remain at their disposal. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2229	Thank you. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2230	Hello, dear colleagues! I think no one has any doubt that it is necessary to ensure that the final report of the committee is made available to the Saeima. As we can see, in the previous Saeima, the parliamentary investigation commission “Latvijas Krajbankas” in the Kraha case came to an impasse, in fact addressing the Saeima Presidium with completely unsubscribed signatures. Some members of the panel did not sign the final report for that or any other reason. The Bureau recommended, in fact, that they fully collect the requested signatures and then come back again for the final report to be examined by the Saeima at the sitting. They were, of course, unable to collect, and the final report did not come to the sitting of the Saeima. I think that the original position... Mr. Loskotov also said... that the initial position, as it were when drafting this law, - that in fact, everyone must be as sworn judges and all need to take part in the vote and also sign this final report - has failed in the last parliamentary term when they were unable to fully collect these signatures. I think that the argument that everyone should be so conscious and, of course, signed is unfounded. And, of course, it is also unfounded to argue that if such a situation arises, we should turn to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. I think that the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications will never deal with the particular Member, Artus Kaimiņš, who has chosen his niche - the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - nor will he force colleagues to sign this final report. Therefore, I think that the absolute majority that is now required to approve the final report is logical and also consistent with the spirit of the Constitution, because its idea was that the final report would come to review in the Saeima rather than disappear somewhere in the corridors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2231	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2232	However, I call on - also on behalf of the Legal Commission - to support the specific proposal. Mr. Loskutov, from history... two formal errors. First of all, the parliamentary investigation commission is not the court of the jury. It's a kind of political jury. And the jury shall be judged, if any man agree not to judge the man, neither shall he judge the man.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2233	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there any more to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2234	None.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2235	No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2236	Dear colleagues, All the proposals for amendments to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry law have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2237	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Parliamentary Investigative Commissions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2238	August 14th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2239	August 14th. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “On the part of real estate “Kaktini” in Lēdmanes municipality, Lielvarde municipality, disposal for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the state road Riga (Tinži)-Koknese”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2240	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! Thus, the aim of the draft law is to ensure the implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the State motorway Riga (Tinži)-Koknesse. This is an exceptional case. It must be acknowledged that the owner of the real estate has not arrived at any meeting of the Legal Commission, despite repeated calls, and this shows, in fact, that she is not interested in dealing with this issue in a way. Colleagues, so the Legal Commission has received eight proposals. 1. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2241	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2242	2. - also the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2243	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2244	3. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2245	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2246	Similarly, proposal 4 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2247	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2248	5. - also the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2249	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2250	6. - also the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2251	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2252	Also seven. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2253	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2254	And also 8. - lastly - is the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2255	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2256	We have examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “On the part of real estate “Kaktini” in Lēdmanes municipality, Lielvarde municipality, disposal for public needs — implementation of the reconstruction project of the stage E22 (Tinži)-Koknese state road” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2257	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the part of real estate “Kaktini” in Lēdmanes municipality, Lielvarde municipality, disposal for public needs — implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the state road Riga (Tinži)-Koknese” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2258	Deadline for submission of proposals - June 25.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2259	June 25th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Cooperative Society, second reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2260	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society” (document No 943). In total, eight proposals have been submitted for the second reading of the draft law. Proposal 1 - Proposal from the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. The aim is to harmonise the provisions of Article 36.1 with each other. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2261	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2262	Proposal 2 - Proposal by the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2263	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2264	Proposal No 3 - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2265	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2266	Proposal 4 - Proposal from the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Provision shall be made for the addition of a new paragraph 2.1 of Article 37, providing that a cooperative society which is not an economic operator may convene an authorised meeting if the statutes so provide and if there are more than 200 members of the voting rights in the society. This provision is necessary in order to simplify the decision-making procedure for cooperative societies with a high number of members, which therefore have a problem of ensuring a quorum at the general meetings of the cooperative members. I call on you to support this Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2267	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2268	Proposal No 5 - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. This proposal clarifies the information to be included in the minutes of the general meeting of members of a cooperative society. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2269	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2270	Proposal No 6 - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Transitional provisions specify the norm regarding the date by which the cooperative societies are to make appropriate amendments to the statutes - that is, by 1 July 2016. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2271	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2272	Proposal No 7 - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It is partly supported and included in 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2273	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2274	Proposal No 8. This proposal is linked to proposals already supported in the past and provides for a specific date for the entry into force of the relevant amendments to the law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2275	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2276	As all the proposals have been examined, please support the draft law at second reading on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2277	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society" at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2278	The deadline for submitting proposals is August 10, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2279	August 10th Members agree. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the disposal of public property, second reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2280	Colleagues! A total of nine proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partly supported, included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2281	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2282	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2283	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2284	3. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partly supported, included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2285	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2286	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2287	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2288	5. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported. The Commission identified the problem and outlined a number of solutions, and then agreed that the Ministry would come up with the best solution for the third reading during the summer and then submit it. So it's not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2289	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2290	6. - Mr. Reira's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2291	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2292	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2293	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2294	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2295	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2296	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2297	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2298	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2299	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2300	August 10th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2301	August 10th Members agree. Draft law on energy efficiency, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2302	Colleagues! We are working on the draft law on energy efficiency at first reading. I would like to inform you that the aim of this draft law is to ensure efficiency in energy production, distribution and end-use, to ensure access to energy audits and regular mandatory energy audits in large companies, as well as to promote the development of the energy efficiency services market and to set up a national energy efficiency fund. And this draft law aims to ensure the development and implementation of national energy efficiency action plans. In the Commission, we supported this draft law and I therefore call on you here to vote in favour of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2303	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on energy efficiency at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2304	Let us wait exactly for the proposals in a month - July 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2305	18 June... July?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2306	On 18 July!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2307	In July. July 18th. Members agree. July - with l, yes. The next item is the draft law on the Law on Society and Foundations, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2308	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, please support the first-reading draft law “Amendment to the Law on Associations and Foundations” and make an article 8 as follows: “Associations and foundations organise voluntary work in accordance with the Law on Volunteering.” ( Medications. Depp. I.Zariņš: “What about the bill, tell us!” , dep. V.Orlovs: “With gestures!” ) Today we have already seen the Law on Volunteering.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2309	Don't talk to the grass! Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Society and Foundations” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2310	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2311	August 10th Members agree. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2312	Upon accession to the OECD Global Forum and the Convention, Latvia has made a number of major international commitments, namely to subject its laws, regulations and administrative practices to conformity assessment, in line with the extended OECD International Standard for the Exchange of Information. According to the OECD standard, national laws and regulations may not restrict the provision of banking information if the other country’s duly substantiated request for predictable relevant information for the purposes of tax administration of a particular taxpayer is received, including transactions of a taxpayer with third parties and information on accounts opened or held by third parties. During the OECD evaluation visit to Latvia in March 2015, it was found that in banking information practice there are some shortcomings that do not meet the international standards developed by the OECD. Against this background, amendments to the law are necessary to ensure full provision of bank information to the State Revenue Service in accordance with the international standards established by the OECD. The amendments made to the law were taken into account in Latvia's accession negotiations with the OECD, and the amendments will remove obstacles to Latvia's participation in the organization. Given the topical nature of the amendment, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is now asking for the said draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2313	Thank you. In accordance with the parliamentary roll of order, we must first vote in favour of granting urgency to the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - no, for - 7. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2314	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2315	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the first reading of the draft law on Credit Institutions Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 73, against - no, refraining - 3. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2316	The Commission is asking for a deadline for the submission of proposals to be set at 25 June of this year and to be examined at the second, final, reading on 8 July at the first extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2317	The emergency sitting has not yet been decided. Obviously, the commission could then ask for this draft law to be examined at the first extraordinary meeting if it is on intersessional break or if it is included at the first ordinary meeting if there is no extraordinary meeting. That would probably be the order of the Saeima. Are there any objections to Members? Members shall not object. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2318	Dear colleagues, This draft law provides that personal expenses related to the carrying out of voluntary work are not subject to personal tax, which are covered by the organisers of voluntary work in accordance with the provisions of the voluntary work agreement. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima examined this draft law and invited the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2319	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2320	Deadline for submission of proposals - 1 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2321	September 1st. Members agree. The next item and the last item on the agenda is "Preview of draft decisions". Draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2322	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has received a letter from the Minister for Finance, examined the issue and prepared a draft decision in which we invite you to agree to the reallocation of this year's budget appropriations of less than EUR one and a half million. In particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has saved this amount during the Presidency of the European Union and it is proposed that this amount be redeployed for the budget programme “Unforeseen assets”. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2323	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 5, for - 5. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have managed to do almost impossible because the clock is 16.10 and we have reviewed the entire agenda of today's sitting. Before we register, I informed you that today is due to reply to Members' questions at 17.00. The first is the question of the Members Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova about the economic justification of the Rail Baltica project and its real impact on the Latvian economy. This question has been answered in writing, but unfortunately it does not satisfy the applicants. However, the Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response. The second is the question of Members Zarina, Agešina, Urbanoviča, Tutina and Ribakov to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the impact of the current geopolitical situation on the Latvian economy”. This issue has been forwarded to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The applicants are not satisfied with the written response received and the Minister informs them that she can attend the oral response today. The third question is the question of Members Elksniņa, Zarina, Zemlinska, Adamson and Ribakov by Minister of Finance Janis Reirs “On State Revenue Service Inspections”. A written reply has been received to satisfy the applicants. Fourth question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On A/S “KVV Liepājas Metalurgs” – Member Zarina, Agešina, Tretjaka, Zujev and Nikonova. The question was referred to Minister for Finance Janis Reirs. A written reply was received which does not satisfy the applicants, but the Minister informs them that he cannot attend the oral response. Fifth - question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On State Cooperation with SIA Prudentia Advisors” by Member Liepiņa, Kleinberga, Šics, Bondara, Viļuma and Freeer. A written reply was received that does not satisfy the applicants, but the Prime Minister informs her that she cannot attend the oral response. The sixth - Members Elksniņa, Agešina, Tretyaka, Tutina and Nikonovas question to Minister of Finance Janis Reirs “On Activities of the State Revenue Service”. A written reply was received to satisfy the applicants. The seventh question - Members Ivanova-Jevsevsevs, Agešin, Cilevičs, Zemlinska and Tutina - to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards "On projects financed by the European Union funds in the city of Daugavpils". A written reply was received to satisfy the applicants. And the eighth is the question of Members Silver, May, Simfa, Kūtra and Baloža, Minister of the Interior Rihard Kozlovskis, about the operation of the security. A written reply has been received and the applicants are not satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot arrive today to give an oral answer. So the questions answered in writing are deemed to have been answered, and today at 17.00 the oral answer will be given by the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola. But now is the time for registration. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! Name of the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2324	Five minutes of attention, please! Not registered: Hosams Abu Meri... No, Guntis Belevičs... No, Ivars Freezers... I don't see, Boris Cylevich... No, Marjan Ivanov-Jevsejeva... I don't see, Oyars Eriks Kalniņš... No, Ivan Clemetyev... No, Janina Kursīte-Pacule... No, Gunar Curry... Yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere... No, Inara Mūrniece... No, Roman Money... No, John Urbanovich... Not applicable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-06-18-PT12-311-U2325	Thank you. Thus, on June 18th, 2015, I declare the sitting closed.
