ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-312-U1	Honourable Members! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! I declare the official sitting of the Saeima public. The parliamentary agenda of today's sitting is a solemn promise by the President of Latvia. Article 40 of the Satversme provides that when the President of the State takes office, the Saeima shall make a solemn promise at the sitting. I call on Raimonds Vējonis, the President-elect, to make a solemn promise!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-312-U2	I swear that all my work will be dedicated to the benefit of the Latvian people. I will do everything I can to promote the welfare of the country of Latvia and its citizens. I will keep sacred and respect the Constitution of Latvia and the laws of the state. I will be righteous to all, and I will be the best in my mind.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-312-U3	Thank you. Please sign the solemn promise, Mr President. Dear President, please take the President's seat in the Saeima's sitting room! Thank you. ( This is the national anthem.) Mr President, I call on you to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-312-U4	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Highly honored Saeima Presidium! Honourable Members, honourable Members! Excellency! Dear residents of Latvia! Ladies and gentlemen! A little more than twenty-five years ago, on May 4, 1990, in the same hall, the free-elected leaders of the people distinguished for the restoration of the independence of Latvia. At that time, we all made it clear and sure that we wanted to decide our own lives, to be together as a nation and a state. The future was uncertain and insecure, and cautious and sceptical voices were also heard. However, with the encouragement of the Latvian people, the members of the Supreme Council decided on this important step, saying loudly to the whole world: we are not all alone, we stand together, shoulder to shoulder, for a common purpose, in the name of our sovereign and democratic state. Twenty-five years have passed since then, and I have the honour to assume the office of President of Latvia today. I have thought a lot about this honorable post, about what it embodies and what the President has to do. There are professions where good professionals can easily be distinguished from bad ones. They shall contain clear and generally recognised criteria. In business it is profit; in science it is discovery; in sport – results. I think that many of us here are aware of the success criterion in politics on a daily basis. What exactly do we measure the results of our work? I have found a clear answer in this regard. In particular, the most important thing is that you have contributed to the development of your country, that people are richer, happier, more patriotic and safer than when you took on these responsibilities. Each of us must be aware that the success of Latvia depends on the success of each of our people. Success, on the other hand, depends on our attitude. This attitude is first of all proud of its country and its people. We often forget how wonderful, intelligent, and self - sacrificing people live around us. The fact that the achievement of every Latvian person is an achievement for our country as a whole is also a reason to be proud of every Latvian patriot. I am not thinking only of world-class excellence in art, science and sport, although they would deserve more appreciation at home. I mean the many people who do their job on a daily basis, helping others – doctors who save lives, teachers who teach young professionals, entrepreneurs who create jobs. They all deserve our appreciation on a daily basis through positive attitude, encouragement and recognition – not just medals and honours as evidence of what has already been done. Such people are based on Latvia and its future. This is the perspective in which I see my work as President of the State. I would like to encourage you to think about Latvia's appearance in the next centenary; what practical work can we do to make our grandchildren proud to live, work and build families here. It is a thing that we sometimes lose sight of in the fights of everyday parties and interest groups – the ability to see the essential and lasting. In living nature, important things take place over a longer period of time; a trifle cannot produce oak at once. However, it is important that its thumb should be and should create the conditions for development – there will also be no oak left. In politics, too, we must be able to make decisions in the longer term. These are decisions and reforms, the full benefits of which will only be enjoyed by our descendants. Work on such a far-sighted policy will require strong political neutrality from the President of Latvia. The President must be able to balance the various interests in favour of the common development of the country. That is why everyone who is ready for constructive work will be expected to come to the President. The President of Latvia is not just a beautiful doorway. He must be a practical aid to anyone who wants to work for the country both internally and externally. We need to be able to communicate in a humane way by sticking to a common and united one, rather than over- emphasising the differences. Unfortunately, Latvia often talks about a “split” society. This is something that has also been welcomed by our welfare workers in other countries. Yet, exaggerating and highlighting fragmentation is neither wise nor patriotic. Let's look around, and we'll see a lot of things that unite us all. There is no doubt that we need to work on strengthening the foundations of our country so that they become self-evident for every citizen of Latvia. We also need to work on a common understanding of the history of Latvia. However, there are no different types of “Latvian” and “non-Latvian” how to approach the land or plant cereals. Our contradictions need to be addressed in a practical, far - sighted manner, not by loud scandals and groanings. Here politicians often point to other areas. Therefore, there is no less reason for Latvia to be proud that Alexander Antonenko represents us among the world's best tenors; that the name of our country is carried directly by Vjačeslav Kashčejev among the most outstanding physicists. Even when the supermarket collapsed in Zolitūde a year and a half ago, it was not important to what nationality the victims and self-deserving rescuers belonged to. It was important to save lives, lives of Latvian people. Such examples could be mentioned by many. Let us remember, then, that love is stronger than jealousy and that forgiveness is stronger than hatred. In the face of practical issues, the main work is strengthening state security. It's a more difficult task than it might sound. Today, many in Europe are awakening from long sleep. The aggressive behaviour of our neighbour in Ukraine shows that military and technological security continues to play an important role in the world. We also need to show this not only in words but also in works. Of course, only military security is important. National security includes the security of every Latvian citizen for their lives and the future of their families in Latvia. Every baby whose parents have gone abroad to work, every pensioner whose children in another country earn money to pay credit, every young person who already dreams of how to work elsewhere in high school is a small robe of our national security. To make us more economically secure, we do not need to reinvent the bike. We simply need to make sure that our work is more productive, that we attract investment and create well-paid jobs. It is necessary to use and develop with skill those things that will ensure the development of Latvia both in the short and long term, taking responsibility for the beautiful nature of Latvia and ensuring the preservation of this unique value. We must work together to ensure that no one in Latvia is attracted to various misconceptions and populist ideas that are spreading by our evildoers. For example, the fact that Latvia's integration in the Western world and economy has failed, that we only do over there, that other scenarios and perspectives in the East are much more attractive. Everyone should be aware that security and prosperity will be provided to Latvia by further and deeper cooperation with our partners in the European Union and NATO. Latvia needs to express its favour and solidarity with other countries here, as well as learn to defend its own interests more successfully and effectively, which have not always been successful in the past. Our entrepreneurs also need security. So far, we have sometimes refused to place our most vulnerable people against the country, often changing tax rates, adopting hard-to-understood norms and laws. As President of Latvia, I will oppose this practice. The public administration must work in a understandable and predictable manner. Each movement and change should be considered and evaluated in cooperation with the social partners. I call on us to think each time: perhaps today's arbitrary decision taken by politicians will threaten the existence of a company that brings work and income to many families. Public administration must not operate away from economic life; it must respect the interests of those who not only pay taxes and create new jobs, but also give us all the foundations for pride in our country. After all, fantastic goods that are able to compete in many markets of the world are invented and produced in Latvia. They are all companies that need to be protected and developed, not frightened by tax changes and new bureaucratic requirements. Finally, security also means national social security. After the financial tables, after budgetary discipline, we need to see concrete people, the way in which they live and their needs. It is especially important to think about those who are most difficult in Latvia today – pensioners, young families with children, people with special needs. We must show with our works that we need these people, that we as a state and as a nation are ready to take care of them jointly – even if for someone it means to give up a new luxury car or a regular house. A regional dimension is also important to reduce inequalities. All regions of Latvia are equally part of it and deserve the same amount of attention and support. I think, like many of the topics, that we all have serious negotiations on regional development. As the President of Latvia, I consider it my duty to create a platform for principled discussions, which lead to practical changes. Sometimes the President's priorities are asked: will he be more "internal" or "external"? My answer is brief: I do not intend to make a distinction between internal and external policies. In whatever field, I will have to act as President, it will always be managed by one of the main tasks – strengthening the state of Latvia and its security. I hope for good cooperation with all the Latvian political forces, as long as they are ready for national work, and I will always act on the principle: peace feeds, unrest. At the same time, I will use each of the powers given to me in the Constitution to promote the well-being of the state and the nation of Latvia. As one of the most important tasks for the President of Latvia in the coming years will be to help overcome the mentality of the “activeness” that often prevails in our politics and society. Because of daily contradictions and disagreements, we have lost the ability to rejoice in our common ground. No doubt – we have had to overcome serious difficulties in recent years, and there are many reasons for bitterness. However, we will only be able to go forward if all of us are proud of Latvia and its people's achievements, both at home and in the rest of the world. Let us not be afraid to encourage those who start a new, new job. Let us be happy when one of Latvia reaches the tops of the world of art and science. Let us appreciate that Latvian scientists and doctors are doing unique and complex things. These people are their own – and who else will be happy about them, who will encourage them, if not us here in Latvia? Let us not forget that alongside all the shortcomings and absences in Latvia, there is still an excellent fertile soil for talents, ideas and innovations. We have many talented people who carry the name of our country in the world every day. They are all ours, and their success is our success – Latvia's success. The welfare of Latvia in both material and spiritual sense is not to be sought in disputes and inovacy. On the contrary, it is a common success story that will give us new confidence in our own strength. Every person of Latvia, who achieves something positive, confirms to us every day – it is here that great things are done, it is Latvian people with their education, industriousness and talent in the world who are welcome and appreciated. People who produce world-class technologies that conquer the world's best sports clubs and opera theaters are proud and encouraging for all of us. Such pride, on the other hand, is the main source of patriotism and national self - confidence. So I would like to say with pride: I am proud to live in Latvia! I am proud of my country and proud of my people! God bless Latvia and its people! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-312-U5	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office. Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Saeima, Raimonds Vējonis, starting his office as President of Latvia, will bring the name of the State of Latvia internationally and work in such a way that the people of Latvia will be proud of you! On behalf of the Saeima, Mr Andris Bērziņš, I thank the President for his work and for his good cooperation with the Saeima. Thank you. ( Long - term applause. Speaker of the Saeima I.Mūrniece presents flowers to President of Latvia R.Vējonis and former President of Latvia A.Bērzins. Thank you. So I declare the parliamentary sitting closed.
