ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-09-PT12-314-U1	Good morning, colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let us begin today's extraordinary session! So there is a question on the agenda – the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately present to the Saeima an evaluated report on the reception of refugees from Africa and other refugee regions in Latvia”. In total, 54 Members have tabled this own-initiative proposal... I am sorry, 45 Members have submitted this own-initiative proposal, including Ms Nelly Kleinberga, Ms Inguna Silver, Mr Jānis Urbanovičs, Mr Juris Viļums, Mr Ruks, Mr Kaimiņš, Mr Vitalijs Orlovs, Mr Mārtiņš Bondars, Mr Ringolds Balodis and others. And so this own-initiative proposal is a draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately submit to the Saeima an evaluated report on the reception of refugees from Africa and other refugee regions in Latvia”. Are Members against the fact that this own-initiative proposal is being examined at the moment? ( INTERPRETATION OF THE GROUP: “Yes! ” ) Members therefore have reservations. Consequently, in line with the parliamentary order, we must decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. One Member can talk about this, one against and one against. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-09-PT12-314-U2	Madam President, colleagues, colleagues. In the last two months, the government and the head of government have made very controversial statements on the issue of receiving refugees - starting with: "No, no! We're fine. No refugee will be taken!” and finally with the last statement, which in fact expresses Latvia's commitment to receiving refugees from North Africa and the Middle East region. And in this respect, the public would still have the right to know what commitments the Latvian Government is making on behalf of all of us and what risks Latvia will have to face if these refugees arrive in Latvia. And if we talk about commitments, then they are quite simple, that is: to provide housing, to provide food, it is, of course, also medical care. In addition, it is also in due course to offer a job. And, of course, the question is: is the government prepared to make these commitments and does the government know how much it will cost, and does the government service have full understanding of these processes? If we are talking about risks, then the risks are also very clear. First of all, they relate, of course, to national security, because North African refugees, as well as Middle East refugees, may be representatives of the ISIS, or Islamic State. Are our services prepared for this moment to assess every day, no matter what we may experience, something like that in France or in other European countries? The second issue, which concerns risks, is related to public health safety. Will our health institutions be able to guarantee that there will be no problems for health safety in Latvia? And, of course, I understand, Mr Shadursky, your'step': to postpone this issue for a further period of time, because I very well understand that the government does not have such a plan. The government is unable to tell neither the Saeima, nor society, nor Latvia about commitments or risks. And that's pathetic! I therefore call for the inclusion of this issue, at least in the next regular sitting, so that the Heads of Government can assess not only the commitments and risks, but also why there is a choice between North African or Middle East refugees and not Ukrainian refugees who have suffered as a result of the war: more than 2 million people have become refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-09-PT12-314-U3	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-09-PT12-314-U4	Colleagues! Two months ago, the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption visited the Lithuanian Air Force base in Šiauliai, where our allies are carrying out patrolling the Baltic airspace, including patrolling our Latvian airspace. Our commission had an opportunity to meet and... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I From the drug depot. J.Dombrava: “We also participated in international operations!” ) meet and talk to an Italian entity for a longer time. Commander of the Italian Unit (Inter-Sanctional). From the drug depot. M.Bondars: “Demagogy!” ) gave our commission this picture. ( See boxing picture for those sitting in the hall.) These are the new Eurofighter typhoon fighters, patrolling the national skies of Latvia. ( Interfaces are worried, ‘ Other agendas! ’ ; “It’s not a topic!” ) When I asked the commander how he perceives that there are many so-called names in the West... in English - useful idiot, who emphasizes that there is no need to protect the Baltic States, he said that he had not at any time taken such an issue into account because Latvia is a member of NATO, and it is his duty to go to help our country, Lithuania and Estonia. In Italy, there are now probably more than 200,000 refugees (over the last year alone, 170,000). Latvia is ready to accommodate 250 thousand, thus solidaritying with our NATO partners. It's just funny! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer. From the drug depot. A.Kiršteins: “How much did you have in mathematics?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-09-PT12-314-U5	So one Member has spoken 'yes', the other Member has spoken 'no'. Colleagues! Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the Saeima decision project “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately submit to the Saeima an evaluated report on the reception of refugees from Africa and other refugee regions in Latvia” on the agenda of the Saeima's next regular meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -41, against -no, refrain -2. So... ( Medicaments: “There is no quorum! ” It's laughter.) I'm sorry, so there's no quorum. I ask Members to register the quorum. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! ( From the drug depot. A. Elksniņš: “UNITY - shame!” ; dep. M.Bondars: “Bail watch the truth in the eyes!” ) Please see the result. ( Medications.) So 68 Members are present. ( From the drug depot. Elksniņš: “They are, but they are not in the vote!” ) Thank you. So we will repeat the quorum check. We will vote for the inclusion of the Saeima decision project “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately submit to the Saeima an evaluated report on the reception of refugees from Africa and other refugee regions in Latvia” on the agenda of the Saeima's next regular meeting! Please vote mode! ( From the drug depot. M.Bondar: “How do you get there... How are you... Minority views should be taken into account? ) Please see the result. ( Medications.) So for - 41, no-no, refrains - 2. There's still no quorum. ( From the drug depot. A.Elksniņš: “Reducing their salary! That's it!” ) As there is no quorum at present, the sitting of the Saeima is closed. Thank you. ( Medications.) Colleagues, registration of the presence of Members is required. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-09-PT12-314-U6	Dear colleagues, Today the correspondence is quite long! Has not registered: Hosams Abu Meri, Aldis Adamovičs, Solvita Āboltiņa, Aija Barča, Guntis Belēvičs, Raimonds Bergmanis, Andris Berzins (intermediate call: “Ir!” )... Yes, yes, Gaidis Berzins, Inesis Boķis, Mārtiņš Bondars (intermediate call from the medicine: “Here!” )... Yes, Andris Buikis (Dep. A.Beiķis from the grass home with his hand: “Yes!” ), Boris Cilevič, Walter Dambe, Gundar Dauge, Sergey Dolgopolov... And, Richard Amy, Ritvar Janson... yes, Andrejs Clementyev, Ivan Clementyev, Janina Kursīte (Interface from the medicine: ‘ Yes!’ )... Oh, the other one is Janina Kursīte-Pacule... Yes, yes, it is, Vilnis Chersis... Yes, Atis Lejiņš, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ingmars Līdaka... It is, Roman Mežeckis, Vladimir Nikonovs, Nikita Nikiforovs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Imants Debtr, Edgars Putra, Artis Rasmanis, Raimonds Rubiks, Valdis Skujiņš, Veiko Spolitis, Edvins Šnore, Jānis Trupovnieks, Juris Vectirāns, Juris Viļums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-09-PT12-314-U7	Name of the Saeima Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-09-PT12-314-U8	Members of the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! After five minutes, I invite you to sit in the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-09-PT12-314-U9	The sitting of the Saeima is closed.
