ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on November 3. The National Budget Law of 2016 and the accompanying draft laws are on the agenda. I would remind you that, in accordance with the order of the Saeima, Members will be able to debate the entire budget package, each of the draft laws or the draft state budget legislation when we begin the debate. Now I give the floor to Karl Shadurski, Chairman of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U2	Good morning, honourable President. Good morning, dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has received the draft law “On the State Budget for 2016” and the draft law “On the Medium-Term Budgetary Framework for 2016, 2017 and 2018” as well as the accompanying legislative package. On behalf of the Commission, I call on all draft legislation in the package to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U3	Thank you. So, first of all, we have to vote in favour of setting the urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 53, against - 28, refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I also call for the urgent draft law on amendments to the vehicle operating tax and corporate light vehicle tax law to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U5	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to vehicle operation tax and company tax on light-duty vehicles”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U6	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law Amending the Law on Excise Duty to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U7	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 30, abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U8	I call for the urgent draft law on the amendment to the Postal Law to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Postal Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 30, abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U10	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on amending the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 30, abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U12	Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”. The Commission also calls for this to be recognised as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -29, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U14	Please also specify the urgency of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U16	The Commission calls for the urgent draft law "Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act" to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 59, 31, abstaining - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U18	The Commission also calls for the urgent nature of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Public Probation Service".
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U19	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's against - 31, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U20	The Commission calls for the urgent nature of the draft law on "Amendments to the law on assistance in housing matters".
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 59, 31, abstaining - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U22	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Houses”. The Commission requests that this be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 30, abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U24	The Commission asks for urgent draft legislation on the amendment to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U26	Draft law “Amendments to law on slot and gambling levies and taxes”. The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U28	Please also declare urgent the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's against - 31, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U30	Please accept the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U31	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -32, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U32	Please accept the urgent draft law “Amendment to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Environmental Impact Assessment”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -32, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U34	On behalf of the Commission, please accept the urgent draft law Amending the Law on Real Estate Tax.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 59, 31, abstaining - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U36	Please accept the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U37	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 31, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U38	On behalf of the Commission, please accept the urgent draft law on the Solidarity Tax Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U39	Please call me! Let us vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on solidarity tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U40	Please accept the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U42	On behalf of the Commission, please accept the urgent draft law Amending the law on State social security.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U43	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U44	Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”. The Commission shall request urgent recognition.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U45	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 59, 31, abstaining - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U46	Draft law “Amendment to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance””. The Commission shall request urgent recognition.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U47	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 30, abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U48	The Commission is asking for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Electricity Market Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U49	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Voting mode! Please get the result! - 59, 31, abstaining - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U50	The Commission asks for urgent draft legislation on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2016, 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U51	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2016, 2017 and 2018”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 59, 31, abstaining - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U52	Finally, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for urgent action to be taken on the draft law “On State Budget 2016”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U53	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2016” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -32, refrains - not. Consequently, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U54	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission, I thank you for your support for the urgent determination.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U55	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now we are launching a debate on the draft law “On the State Budget for 2016” and its accompanying draft laws at first reading. Name to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U56	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Ministers. Those who sit down and all who follow live! 2015 has been stable for the development of Latvia, despite instability beyond Latvia's borders and in the euro area. The assessment by the Central Statistical Office of Latvia's gross domestic product shows that in the 3rd quarter of 2015 gross domestic product after seasonally unadjusted data was 2.5 percent higher than one year ago. Although exports to Russia dropped sharply, in the eight months of 2015 goods exports were 1.8 percent higher than a year ago; this shows that Latvian producers are able to find new markets. This year, the Treasury has paid back a substantial part - EUR 1.260 billion - of the international loan it has granted. The loan balance represents 4 per cent of gross domestic product. This year, Latvia issued a 10-year bond of EUR 500 million at a fixed interest rate of 1.375 per annum. Given fiscal discipline and macroeconomic stability, we have created the preconditions for this issue to take place with the historically lowest interest rate on Latvian government bonds. In order to implement a regionally balanced and balanced reallocation of funding between municipalities (the Head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) and provide them with sufficient financial resources to carry out their functions, on 4 July the Saeima supported a new Law on Equalisation of Municipal Finance. In discussions with local government leaders we came to a real law, which will be operational from 1 January of next year. Dear Members, Today I have the honour to offer the Saeima for discussion draft laws “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2016, 2017 and 2018” and “On the state budget for 2016” as well as accompanying draft laws. National defence and internal security are the main priorities of the 2016 budget. The 2016 budget is designed in the light of these key priorities. The budget has been created responsibly and thoughtfully. Its preparation took place in difficult circumstances. A solution had to be found to compensate for the negative fiscal space of almost EUR 100 million. It was also necessary to ensure that the existing geopolitical risks were adequately financed for the internal and external security of the State. That is what the government has done. The national budget has been designed to make the national operational body operational and effective. The budget was created by the responsible work of all ministers and officials. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, Mr Reira, and the Group of the Ministry for Finance for their constructive work separately. More about the underlying budgetary facts. The total budget revenue for next year is estimated at EUR 7.4 billion and expenditure at EUR 7.7 billion. In order to ensure the necessary funding for expenditure, the basic expenditure of the ministries of the sectors was revised by 3 percent. The reduction was not applied to four ministries - the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Science. The deadlines for the implementation of investment projects were also revised. Already last year, the Cabinet of Ministers decided on a series of measures to combat the shadow economy, the impact of which was planned for the preparation of the 2016 budget. Further to the fight against the shadow economy, the government has decided that the rules for the development of technical requirements for cash registers, cash registers, specialised devices and equipment will be strengthened. Work on the project “A work plan for the reduction of the shadow economy 2016-2020” is ongoing. The reduction of the shadow economy is a common task of the State, in which not only the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service, but other institutions of public administration, social partners and social partners must be involved. Entrepreneurs must understand that envelope wages and tax avoidance have a negative impact on the business environment and fair competition in general. If we compare the next year's budget with this year's budget, then expenditure will increase by EUR 183 million. Revenues from 2015 will increase by 114 million euros. The entire budget increase is basically directed towards priority sectors. Funding for strengthening national defence and security will increase by EUR 70 million. The 2016 budget provides the basis for the required protection funding of 2 per cent of GDP to be achieved already in 2018. The financing of the defence sector is planned to be 1.4 percent of GDP in 2016 and 1.7 percent of GDP in 2017. The Government's agreement on providing additional funds to the staff working in the internal security system to increase the remuneration of police officers, customs officers, firemen, rescue workers and the administration of prisons is also of particular importance. The increase in funding is also intended for vocational education, science, maintenance of municipal roads, the State Culture Capital Foundation and health care provision. The general government deficit is projected to be 1 % of gross domestic product for the following year. Inflation is planned to be 2 per cent. The 2016 state budget is prepared based on the growth rate of Latvia's gross domestic product by 3 percent in 2016. The government has included significant proposals in the draft budget to reduce income inequality and reduce tax regressivity. Together with setting a differentiated non-taxable minimum and raising the minimum wage to EUR 370, one of the measures to reduce income inequality next year is the introduction of a solidarity tax. This will equalise the tax burden so that beneficiaries of low wages do not have a higher tax burden than those who work with wages above EUR 4050 per month. From 2016, the solidarity tax will have to be paid only to those employees whose wages exceed the mandatory social contributions ceiling, i.e. who will have an annual income exceeding 48 thousand €600. By introducing a differentiated non-eligible minimum, the non-equitable minimum applied in the month of 2020 for low wage recipients will gradually reach €160 per month. The draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law” supported by the Cabinet of Ministers states that with 2017 the tax rate of micro enterprises will decrease to 5 percent by separating part of the state social insurance payments from the total payment (9 percent). The tax rate of 5 per cent will be applied by micro-enterprises in the first three years of operation and very small enterprises (with a turnover of up to EUR 7000 per year). In turn, in order to ensure a minimum of social security for micro-enterprises employees in the future, from 1 January 2017, the employer of each person employed under the micro-enterprises tax regime will have to make minimum compulsory social insurance contributions. In addition, in order to combat tax planning and reduce distortions of competition, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been adopted limiting the registration of new micro-enterprises in 37 sectors and limiting the continued operation of these sectors under a preferential regime. I would like to emphasise that in addition to what has already been mentioned, the Ministry of Economics, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will prepare proposals for introducing a specific tax regime for start-ups. I would also like to draw attention to the benefits of our budget from the broader possibilities of European Union funds. When implementing Latvia's interests, no budget process can be separated from the investment opportunities of the European Union funds. A year ago, Latvia became one of the first Member States of the European Union whose operational programme was supported by the European Commission, thus enabling us to start investments in the new programming period for European funds. However, over the course of the year, the acquisition of investment has been rather slow - harmonisation has been incorporated into several programmes. I call on ministers to pay even more attention to speeding up the implementation of European Union funds. In 2016, the European Union's investments will allow us to integrate social exclusion risk groups into the labour market, reducing the number of people at risk of poverty. The country will be able to provide appropriate training and help improve health. Support from the European Union funds is also intended to address the 2015 biggest challenge facing the European Union, the refugee crisis. The support of the European Union funds is also intended to improve energy efficiency in the private and public sectors, to increase investment in research and development, to promote private investment and to activate cooperation between research institutions and economic operators. Significant investment is intended to improve information and communication technologies and transport infrastructure, directly affecting the productivity of the economy and providing the basis for wider employment and increase in the quality of life. In October, the new management board of the Joint Financial Institution, which must ensure a much more active operation of the Authority in the implementation of guarantees, loans, venture capital and energy efficiency activities, started work. The Joint Financial Institution should work hard to help entrepreneurs prepare project applications for the European Fund for Strategic Investments. The Ministry of Education and Science, together with local governments, trade unions and social partners, has done a great deal of work on developing the new teacher wage model, but it still needs to be improved. In order for us to be able to achieve even higher quality of education in the future and to move towards a knowledge-based economy, it is essential that the position of educator in society is also properly assessed financially. We must be able to attract new, motivated teaching staff and create competition on existing teaching places with a level of pay. We need children to be creative from their first classes, to teach them to think that they will not lose their inspiration. I believe that it is necessary to be able to prepare a solution that will include a whole series of related measures, which will ensure a quality-oriented distribution of funding, while at the same time providing local authorities with sufficient flexibility in the organisation of their school network. We will offer to reserve up to 9 million funds from unforeseen cases for second reading in order to provide additional funding for educators. Science funding from the state budget is being increased next year, but there is a need to work actively to ensure access to new European Union funds, because there is substantial funding for science. I believe that industry should also actively seek funding for Horizon 2020 calls for private funding or projects for the European Fund for Strategic Investments, the Juncker Plan. A year has passed since the introduction of tax incentives for companies for the cost of research services, and it is necessary to assess whether this measure has provided incentives for new private investment and research. In preparation of the 2017 budget, the Ministry of Finance will start work on a much more detailed revision of the basic expenses of all ministries, as well as the development of medium-term tax guidelines at the end of this year. We will thus ensure a more predictable development of the budget in the preparation of the 2017 draft budget. It is already clear that issues such as the overall tax burden and capital duty will be addressed within the framework of the tax guidelines. I believe that the health sector should be a priority in the draft budget for 2017. I see opportunities for reallocation of social security contributions in favour of financing the health sector, gradually moving towards compulsory health insurance over the next few years. At the same time, the internalisation of the health sector needs to continue. In addition to health as a priority in the draft budget for 2017, I see the alignment of funding for higher education and science sectors, which is the necessary basis for innovative production and development of creative industries. All the desires in real life cannot be satisfied at once. However, remembering higher goals is always possible step by step. I therefore believe that we will all remind ourselves of fiscal discipline, of the continuity of work and of the coordinated growth of the country. The fight against the shadow economy, judicial reform, education and health systems development, the search for innovative solutions in public administration and other issues important to the development of the state are the real tasks that we can ensure in Latvia and every family, every person's well-being. In conclusion, I would once again like to express my sincere thanks to all the ministers of my government for the work of a responsible team and to all the officials of the Ministry of Finance and the other ministries for the professional performance. I also thank the social partners and the local authorities for their intensive dialogue. Dear Members, I invite the Saeima to evaluate and approve the 2016 state budget, as well as the medium-term state budget and accompanying draft laws. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U57	Thank you, Mrs Straujuma. The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U58	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Highly Respected Prime Minister. Honourable Members! Colleagues! Today one of the most important draft laws of this year is being discussed in the Saeima - the draft state budget for 2016. It describes the country's future economic development, our main priorities and clear directions in a number of sectors - security, education, health. So I'll start with the most important thing right away. The next year's budget is the internal and external security budget of the country. Its design took place in very difficult circumstances. The government had to find a solution to compensate for the negative fiscal space of almost EUR 100 million as a result of the economic downturn, which was not easy and quick work. This budget must provide significant additional funding for the internal and external security of the country, and it must be adequate and in agreement with our strategic partners, NATO and the Member States of the European Union. Latvia cannot only demand other countries to guarantee the security of our country and all our citizens. We must make an immediate and sustained contribution to strengthening common security. After all, Latvia cannot and cannot become a weak link in the region without ensuring commitment to partners. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers has made a decision - we will be able to provide the necessary funding of 2 per cent of gross domestic product in our national defence by 2018. In turn, the financing of the defence sector next year will be 1.4 percent of GDP, while in 2017 it will be 1.7 percent. Dear Members, The Cabinet of Ministers has prepared the draft state budget for next year, setting priorities for strengthening external and internal security of our country, promoting access to health care and improving quality of education. The government has also included significant proposals in the draft budget to reduce income inequality and reduce tax regressivity. The government has prepared a budget in line with the economic situation. This is in line with the requirements of fiscal discipline and provides funding for priority sectors. As early as last year, the government has decided on a series of measures to combat the shadow economy, the impact of which has been planned for the preparation of the 2016 budget as well. So far, we have successfully worked in a step by step towards reducing the shadow economy in various sectors. Dear colleagues, However, I would like to stress that all public services and sectoral ministries need to be further activated. This must take place more effectively at both political and operational levels to ensure a more effective fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. The Ministry of each sector must engage in work to ensure fair competition for our entrepreneurs and at the same time not to increase, even reduce, the administrative burden. I would like to emphasise: curbing the shadow economy is the responsibility of the whole country. Therefore, the draft budget for next year also contains a number of proposals aimed at limiting unfair business practices. For example, we have decided in the government that the rules on the unlawful use of cash registers and cash systems will be strengthened in order to prevent deliberate and abusive abuses. The exchange of information between credit institutions and the State Revenue Service will also be improved. This is necessary so that responsible services can have a clear picture of the origin of the financial resources. There is no secret that money laundering often goes hand in hand with the financing of terrorism. The government's task is to promote honest business in our country. A successful and honest businessman can influence the development of the entire country. This is also confirmed by Doing Business’s assessment, published by the World Bank very recently, that the business environment in Latvia is improving. This year Latvia has gone one place and occupied the high 22th place. ( I would like to remind you that in 2006-2007, which is considered to be a very successful year, we were at 24, 25, 28 at the beginning of the crisis.) And this 22nd place has not been won in competition with third countries... third world countries or countries that are lagging behind (Debt. M.Bondars: “Last place in the Baltics!” This is the fight against France, Spain, Belgium and even Luxembourg, which we have often mentioned, which we are ahead of. The Baltic countries are in very similar positions. During the year, the business environment in Latvia has significantly improved in a number of areas, such as business start-up, protection of minority investors and contract performance, but credit availability assessment has decreased significantly. Compared to Estonia and Lithuania, Latvia has better access to credit and simpler tax arrangements. However, further efforts are still being made by the government to significantly improve the enforcement of contractual obligations, building permits, access to electricity, as well as property registration. Predictability and transparency in tax policy, which the government has also ensured for at least the last four years, are essential for the development of entrepreneurship. I would like to remind you that we are the only Member State of the European Union and a Member State of the euro area where taxes have been reduced in these four years - and they have been reduced very significantly. Value added tax has been reduced by 1 per cent, personal income tax has been reduced by 26 per cent to 23 per cent, i.e. by 3 per cent, social tax has been reduced by 1 per cent for both employers and employees. These tax reductions in the main tax groups, which are social tax, personal income tax and value added tax, are a unique phenomenon in Europe in the last five years. The countries have returned to the issue of the need to increase personal income tax. There are discussions on these matters in some countries. Latvia has consistently complied with its tax reduction policy. I would also like to emphasise that next year's budget will still be able to hold Latvia in the midst of the rapidly growing economies of the European Union and the euro area. In strict compliance with national fiscal policies, it should be stressed that our course on this issue has not changed. It will also focus on ensuring sustainable economic growth and the implementation of responsible fiscal policies in the coming years, subject to conditions of fiscal discipline. As regards the main indicators of the state budget, I would remind you that the total budget revenue is planned at EUR 7.4 billion, expenditure at EUR 7.7 billion. In order to ensure the necessary expenditure, the expenditure of the ministries of the sectors has been revised and we have reduced it by 3 percent. The deadlines for implementation of investment projects were also revised and an additional EUR 122 million was found for emergency measures. And I would like to reiterate that expenditure next year will increase by almost EUR 200 million, revenue before 2015 will increase by almost EUR 115 million. And we are shifting all of this growth towards the priority sectors that have already been mentioned above. According to current economic growth forecasts, Latvia's growth will be 3 percent of GDP in 2016. The level of the government deficit is 1 % of GDP. The average wage increase is expected to exceed 5 percent. I would like to point out and remind you of some examples of additional funding for the following year. For example, funding for national defence and security has increased by 70 million euros, 35 million for strengthening the home system, vocational education will receive an additional 6 percent, science by 10 percent, and sport by 18 percent. Additional funds will also be provided for maintenance of municipal roads – over 8 percent, the State Culture Capital Fund will receive additional funding before 2015 in the amount of 18 percent. Further funding will also increase for healthcare provision, but there is still much to be done. In discussions with our local government partners, the government has found an opportunity to ensure that the financial resources for local authorities are increased by EUR 92 million. This will help improve the availability and quality of services that are important to citizens. Also, when preparing the draft state budget for 2016, the government reached agreement on increasing the minimum wage to 370 euros. A differentiated non-taxable minimum will be introduced. A solidarity tax will also be introduced to ensure that the tax burden is equivalent to that of all taxpayers. One of the main causes of income inequality among citizens is tax regression. Compared to other countries of the European Union, the rate of income tax progression in Latvia is one of the lowest. The introduction of a solidarity tax on wages of over €50 000 per year will therefore reduce labour tax regression. The tax changes triggered by the government in 2016 will affect relatively narrow groups of taxpayers. Taxes that limit harmful habits and environmental pollution will be increased; excise duties will mainly be reviewed. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the fact that the next year's expenditure by the sectoral ministries has already been reduced by 3 percent, it is high time to carry out an even more thorough review of each sector's funding. This is necessary to ensure effective use of taxpayers' funds. Therefore, immediately after the draft budget for next year will be approved by the Saeima, the Ministry of Finance will begin intensive work on a thorough review of the expenditure of all ministries in the sector. Thus, we will ensure a radically different approach to the preparation of the 2016 draft budget than before. We will also develop medium-term tax guidelines together with the social partners of the government - the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and the Free Trade Union of Latvia. They will define tax policy objectives, results and performance indicators. In line with the Government Action Plan, we are going to finish this huge work in the first half of next year. Dear Members, colleagues! To conclude, we will continue our work so that economic development can also provide a solid basis for the development of entrepreneurship. It is important that next year's budget, which is mainly focused on strengthening internal and external security, will still be able to sustain Latvia among the rapidly growing economies of the European Union and the euro area. Dear Members of the Saeima! The main approval of the national financial document is in your hands. It was built in a responsible, collegial manner, in cooperation with the ministries of industry and the social partners, taking into account the interests of our country and society. I invite you all to support the draft budget for next year, because only by joint efforts can we build Latvia as a safer and better place for our fellow people. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U59	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Member of the Association of the Regions of Latvia Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U60	Madam President, Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! Prime Minister! Ministers, ministers! This shoe... This shoe is a symbol of the 2016 budget. ( Shows the shoes for the grass.) Medicines.) This shoe is a symbol because it has much to do with the 2016 budget: the 2016 budget, just like this shoe, is not appropriate! The 2016 budget is not suitable for Latvia, but this shoe is not suitable for that guy, the landguard to whom it was given. That's not right! ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “On that side is the degree! ” ) First of all on the budget. Latvia is thirsty for faster economic development, but no faster economic development is foreseen in the 2016 budget. Your promised economic breakthrough is only possible at a time when investments in science and global knowledge, skills and skills are taking place. I can't find such a thing in the 2016 budget. Well, if we cannot make a breakthrough in the economy, then maybe we can achieve faster economic development by improving the business environment in Latvia, but there can also find nothing about improving the business environment, and therefore the 2016 budget is not appropriate. ( From the drug: “What size? ” ) And let me quote three expressions from organisations and individuals who always - and I repeat - always! - the government has been either supportive or diplomatic. I will start with the President of the Bank of Latvia Ilmārs Rimšēvičs. ‘ Every year new opportunities are being sought to increase taxes, in fact making Latvia more uncompetitive with each year.” I will continue with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. ‘ The budget is not designed to strengthen the Latvian economy, develop entrepreneurship and create new jobs.” And finally, the Board of Fiscal Discipline. To understand you, colleagues: fiscal discipline is something with which this government or the governments of the last six years have always been proud that they have really respected fiscal discipline. And it was really the only question with which these governments are proud, because everything else has been the public relationship provided by those people who sit there behind those columns. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediates.) And the Board of Fiscal Discipline says: “The government’s ability to stick to fiscal objectives has deteriorated.” The fiscal discipline law obliges the government to correct budgetary plans in the years to come, with the main aim of reducing pressure on public debt. The accumulated deficit in 2015 will require a budget surplus in the coming years. Right? Well, who else has to say that this budget is no good for you to hear it? Now on the shoe. ( From the drug: ‘ Again?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ This shoe was given to a young earthly guard along with the equipment, along with this boot. You see this boot and this shoe! You see?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, This boot can be used by a landguard because it is suitable for his leg, but this shoe can't, because it's 42-size, not 44! When he tried to say that he had a size of 44, not 42, he replied: “Take, sign and go!” He also took, signed and went. And now you see why neither this shoe nor the 2016 budget is appropriate. So they're not good. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķele: “Genial logic!” ) Mr. Bergmann! Mr. Bergmann! But it's okay on paper, isn't it? The reports show that the guard has received a shoe. When examining the reports, the State Audit Office does not even notice that no one is using this shoe, it stands in the closet for this landguard. ( FROM a faction: “Throw them! ” ) But in fact, the state budget has been spent, the landguard has not been trained, but the owner is the shoe dealer and producer, is he not? The Ministry of Defence receives a significant increase in the budget and will have 1.4 percent of gross domestic product on paper. Just like our allies promised. But, Mrs. Straujuma! If the Ministry of Defence is all right on paper, then the security of the country will be an empty speech. It seems that the motif of your government is concerned about the paperwork you run. ( From the hall: “Where does the earth’s guard come from? ” ) With great zeal the government has spent years fighting inequality - not inequality in life, but inequality on paper, not de facto, but de iure. Last year, in order to reduce inequality, you increased the minimum wage. Inequality, however, remained! This year, you decided to move on to more radical methods: if the poor cannot become a middle class, then the middle class must be made a poor one. It has increased taxes for those who receive European-level salaries in Latvia today. But I can guarantee you, Mr. Reira, to guarantee! - that success in reducing inequality on paper you are guaranteed. ( Minister for Finance: “Thanks! ” ) In general, inequalities are mitigated by providing knowledge, skills and skills that are sold on global markets; it is not necessarily that inequalities are reduced by taking away from someone and giving nothing to anyone. ( The ringing of noise, the intermediates. From the hall: “You know, Martin, pull that boot and go home!” ) It would not be fair, Mr Bergmanis, to blame you for this one incident with a shoe. There are many mistakes in large organizations. But in terms of the budget, I must be able to believe you as the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Latvia. And, believe me, I believe you as a patriot of Latvia! I believe you as someone who can address the new generation, both those who come to the Earthguard, those who join the new guards and those who choose the professional service. But how can I believe you as a defence minister if your strategic planning and development adviser is one that no one has heard of as a specialist in strategic planning or defence issues in the city, country and world? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “Such as you?” ) Ģirts Kalniņš is known as a builder of good acquaintances. Mr. Bergman, then what advice do you get from Mr. Kalniņš? I must also believe you, Mrs Straujuma - as Prime Minister, in your words that this budget should have the hope of being valid for the benefit of Latvia and not just for the benefit of the coalition. But how can I believe you if, last year, when you adopted the 2015 budget, you said the following from this troupe: "The new government declaration is not about raising tax rates, but about improving tax collection." ( FROM a faction: “Word! ” ) It turns out that these words have been only words that you, as Prime Minister, have used without any criticism of conscience. In my head, your pyarist’s or your communication man’s fiction – “economic breakthrough”, “economic growth”, “reduction of inequality”, “1.2 percent of GDP – for research and development”. Could go on and on. Mrs. Straujuma, I don't believe it! I do not believe that you have the intention of trying at least one of them in essence, not on paper! I am one of many in my disbelief in your government. The 2016 budget is useless! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķele: “Genicals!” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U61	We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the “From the heart to Latvia” fraction – Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U62	Honourable Members! Members of the Cabinet of Ministers! The ruling coalition, trying to achieve adoption of the draft budget for 2016, developed by the Cabinet of Ministers, behaves as a trader who seeks to sell the cat in a bag in all possible ways. I'm not going to be so attractive - I'm coming without a cat in a bag - but I'm going to try to imagine it for you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Šadurskis: “Thank you!” ) The owner of the cat publicly claims that his animal is ready for a “failure story”: demanding ever less food, because he himself is catching more and more mice and, moreover, the less nourishing the cat, the more its physical form improves. At the same time, however, the story is filled with pity that the cat has had to grow under very difficult geopolitical conditions and that the owner has been forced to constantly reduce food intakes. Of course, such contradictions in the statements of the buyer give the buyer a desire to take a closer look at what is in the bag. However, the seller begins to plead that it is not at all possible that he does not even know how to remove the bag. The draft budget is exactly the same. On the one hand, it is said that it is a development budget that has not been seen so far, on the other, that there is no money for health protection, for teachers' salaries, for regional roads or for anything else. So there needs to be optimisation once again, but for sectors in need, we need to endure until better new times come. However, when Members wanted to get a more accurate picture of the proposed changes to the budget made compared to the 2015 budget, it turns out that it is practically impossible to do so. Because the information available in the explanatory notes to the draft budget for 2016 is formal and insufficient. In order to make the budget figures clearer and more understandable, however, we “From the heart to Latvia” achieved the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Budgets and Finance (tax) at the meeting of the Budget and Financial (tax) Commission. Sadly, they too were unable to explain to the end what the money was intended to do. At the Commission’s meeting, a large number of ministerial representatives were unable to explain the objectives of the sector, the priorities and the link between the budget and the National Development Plan. At best, the officials promised to reply in writing. Others said on the priorities, let us try to make it the best. The officials of the Ministry of Economics recognised in good faith that we have not been the Ministry of Economics for a long time, but the Ministry of Energy, Construction, and Tourism for a long time, because the Ministry of Economics has not played a crucial role in defining the country's business policy, because tone of state development is determined by the Ministry of Finance mathematics. But also mathematics does not really lead the Ministry of Finance. It has created a magnificent story that the optimisation of expenditure in the draft budget has nevertheless taken place and ministry expenditure has been reduced by 3 percent compared to 2015. The ruling coalition applauds such a measure of optimisation because they believe in it. It must then be recognised that so naive and bona fide Members of the Cabinet of Ministers and the ruling coalition have so far never been seen. ( From the medicine, “It’s good! ” ) And one of the classic examples is the optimisation measure of the Ministry of Transport. This means a reduction of €1.8 million in the cost of a grant to cover losses for public transport service providers. At the same time, the measure has been declared urgent and an additional €2 million has been allocated to it. And, as the representatives of the Ministry of Transport said honestly, as a result of optimisation, we win 200 thousand euros. The obvious is the incredible! As a result of this pseudo-optimisation, even more resources are available to ministries. Similarly, the Ministry of Culture optimises measures. The cost of Latvia's participation in the London Book Market is reduced by EUR 40 thousand, but at the same time it is planned to increase the cost of the same event by EUR 440 thousand. A similar story is about machinations with the removal expenses of the Latvian National Museum of History, the Museum of Writing and Music and the Latvian National Museum of Art. We cut one hand, and the other one goes back. Examples of such optimisation can be found in many ways. What, then, is involved in making such pointless changes? So that the finance minister can mislead the public that optimisation measures have been taken? The question of spending targets in this situation becomes absurd, because all the actions involving budget expenditure have been carried out mathematically without going into the substance of the expenditure. This is demonstrated by the inability of officials to explain, for example, which services will be abandoned by ministries as a result of optimisation measures and how this will affect the performance of the institutions. And finally. The employees of the Ministry of Finance will be able to hold a real party on the background of the reduction and uncertainty next year. The employees of the Ministry who are the main responsible for preparing the draft law “On the State Budget for 2016” and who have the most inexplicable and sealed expenditure. Expenditure will increase by 690 thousand euros in the conditions of optimisation, economy and solidarity of the staff of the central apparatus of the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps this is why ministerial staff receive special praise from the Prime Minister. The replies prepared by officials, in which well-paid officials of the Ministry of Finance demonstrate complete incompetentness, do not even have the capacity to submit the requested documents. Incompetentness or attitude "what part of those Members"? There has been no discussion - and the government also sees no need for such - on sectoral policies and objectives. What does the government want to achieve with this budget? What are the educational or social services that society will receive or will not receive? What are the routes we're going to take? What environment will our entrepreneurs have? In our view, it is totally unacceptable that the established practice is that the full text for the explanations of the state budget is drawn up within two months of the adoption of the budget. What we would like to do is compare it with building a house. Would we use a light hand to transfer all the funds planned for construction on the basis of the sketch, saying that we will only be interested in the building when it is built and then decide whether we want to live in it at all? Consequently, in this chaotic, desperate struggle to preserve ministries' budgets, no one has a share of compliance with the National Development Plan or other instruments governing the development of the country. I would remind you that the priorities set by the NAP, which the country must achieve by 2020, are economic growth, human security and growth-friendly areas. New policy initiatives were not considered at all in the course of budgeting, which were intended to provide additional funding for the priority sectors. For example, for the Ministry of Transport, which submitted six new policy initiatives, the Ministry of Finance simply pointed out that it would end with training and even not be hoping for funding. Without wanting to assess the current use of taxpayers' money, the government follows the most comfortable path: it generates increasingly peculiar proposals for new taxes or increasing existing taxes. A new tax - solidarity tax - is also being introduced next year. Value added tax applies to expenditure on the administration of the residential house, tickets to concerts and theatres, excise duty on fuel is increased. The continuing desire to reach the taxpayer's pocket has already led to an unprecedented conflict with the social partners. The Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia, trade unions, and even the President of the Bank of Latvia strongly point out that this budget will be the next step towards the loss of competitiveness of the country. This will slow down economic development and social prosperity. It would be quite natural, on receipt of such a model, that the Members are trying to make every effort to make good for what is still possible. However, next year's discussion of the budget in the committee responsible was marked by another particular nature - the opposition Members put questions, analysed, made proposals while the position Members openly demonstrated their uninterested attitude without submitting any questions at all. It was only by discussing taxes that the Members of the position were more active, it came up with proposals to increase the tax burden on our businesses, to force those who pay taxes to pay even more in the future. Other activities (the fight against the shadow economy, the reduction of public administration expenditure, the increase in the quality of services provided) are more difficult to achieve and may affect the relationship between the coalition. Members of the position avoid discussing such dangerous issues. I believe that the ruling coalition will, after all, vote on this budget, however deplorable it may be, whatever the social partners, teachers, doctors and other social groups protest against it. Then this project will come into history as the most unprofessional and worst budgetary project created after the restoration of Latvia's independence. Honourable Members! Answer yourself if you know what lies behind these billions. — Dep. K. Šadurskis: “Yes!” ), which we will achieve with this budget, what we will not do and how we will live on. We “from the heart” members of Latvia do not want to be on the show list and we will vote against the adoption of the budget at first reading. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U63	We are continuing the debate. Name: Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U64	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Highly honored Saeima Presidium! Honourable Members and Members! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! When I start this speech, first of all, I would like to thank the Latvian public, my colleagues in the government and the Saeima for their understanding and support, discussing not only next year's budget for national defence, but also seeing it in perspective until 2018, when, according to the decision of the government, 2 per cent of gross domestic product has to be reached. These 2 percent are not an end in themselves or a mathematical dogma, but a proof of their own determination and will, because the presence of allies in Latvia is not an obvious thing. Above all, we, as a country, are responsible for our security. Our country's defence is based on three main conditions, which together form the so-called deterrence policy. Firstly, it is the provision of the state's self-defence capacity in the development of its armed forces. Secondly, it is a guarantee of the presence of allies and of a certain capacity of the host State to support them. Thirdly, it is the provision of a modern early warning and information exchange system. My main priority in this role is to build and strengthen the combat capability of the NBS. The presence of NATO forces is equally important - long-term and visible. This is an objective to deter a possible aggressor and to avoid even the idea that one of the NATO member states could be invaded. Since the beginning of Ukraine's crisis, there have been permanent units of the U.S. forces living in Latvia on a rotational basis. With the presence of allies in the region, the intensity of military training is also increased, which promotes interoperability between allies and national forces. In order to ensure the sustainable presence of allies, the necessary infrastructure identification has been carried out and design works have been started, which will facilitate the necessary conditions for admission of foreign soldiers in Latvia. At the same time, the choice of our citizens to join the Earthguard must not be underestimated, and therefore the readiness of the Earthguard battle is gradually being built up and resources are being invested in the purchase of equipment, in the recruitment and training of additional personnel. While visiting the Earthguard units throughout Latvia, I am convinced that patriotism and readiness to defend my land are also evident in the desire to join the Earthguard and link my life to a military career. Although, during the years of the economic crisis, national defence funding was maintained only in the survival regime, today we can say thank you and truly admiration for the fact that their determination to serve the security of their country has not gone into a minority. They have also grown up and inspire others who are now joining the earth’s ranks. To build the Earthguard battle ready in the coming years (2014-2018.) to invest up to €70 million in equipment, staff and infrastructure. The most important investment areas are the recently launched defence capacity development projects. For example, in the largest projects in 2016, it is planned to invest 104 million euros, including the allocation of almost 8.5 million euros to the Earthguard, the protection of the air and surveillance of the airspace - more than 13 million euros, and more than 16 million euros to the mechanisation project. The most important new projects in the request for a budget for 2016 are: an increase in the number of staff of the NBS to 6 000 people - it needs almost EUR 16 million; construction and training of the infrastructure necessary for receiving state aid - almost EUR 9 million; provision with material means (including re-arming) - slightly more than EUR 9 million. It is a debt that we have to hand over to the National Armed Forces and to the defence of our country. Now is the time to do so. By transferring the state defence budget to evaluation in the Saeima, I would like to confirm that I will follow its use strictly and with the highest responsibility. The public needs to know what the budgetary increase is intended to be spent on. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U65	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U66	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Prime Minister and Ministers! Today, when we arrived at the Saeima meeting, we had the opportunity to talk to dissatisfied health and education workers. It is interesting that both health and education are mentioned as priorities for this prepared draft budget. Today I want to focus on education workers, so I have seen what the strategy planning documents approved by the government and the Saeima say about education, which must be implemented both by the 2016 budget and by the next year's budgets. ‘ Latvia 2030”: “Teacher must not only be a teacher of his subject, but a versatile, talented person who helps, inspires, connects different areas, cooperates, provides advice and organises. In particular, early childhood and primary school education should focus on the development of child-to-child skills, individuality and curiosity." What is the reality? According to the model of remuneration offered by the Ministry, the teacher is given five minutes to prepare one talented, inspiring and integrated lesson, but the preschool teacher is not considered to be a teacher at all. The same document “Latvia 2030”: “In order for the most talented and talented young people to choose the teaching profession, there is a need to raise the profile of the profession and improve the motivation system.” What is the reality? The teacher is offered to spend three hours a week more on the same salary. ‘ Latvia 2030: “The digitisation of all Latvian schools and libraries must be implemented in order to ensure access to modern learning processes and information.” What is the reality? Digitalisation has not been carried out, the development of a digital platform has failed and the millions it is supposed to have flooded in an unknown direction. However, libraries will no longer be available in schools, as each school does not have a library. National Development Plan: “The learning process and the teaching of subjects in schools are ensured at a high level, and already with the first days of school we are unlocking skills and abilities, are preparing for the new generation to be competitive in the labour market in the future.” What is the reality? Colleagues from Unity are increasingly bringing teachers' minimum salaries closer to the recipient by increasing the minimum wage. It is a ridicule for teachers who have devoted years to education and professionalisation, but they are already few different from uneducated black workers in terms of pay. Improving the quality of education is a priority for the budget, Mr Reira said. Mrs Strautums, along with this, admitted that funding would be allocated to education from unforeseen events, with proposals for second reading. What do we see in the draft budget now? In 2015 - the Ministry of Education and Science - 448 million, in 2016 - the Ministry of Education and Science - 317 million. The difference between the third highest priority of the government is 130 million minus. The reality is that teachers will only be able to receive this funding from unforeseen cases and proposals for second reading if they want the next scrupulously called "the new model of teachers' pay". In reality, we are on the eve of the teacher strike. On the eve of a strike that has not been the case for the last 15 years - neither in times of crisis, in times of consolidation, nor at a time when teachers carry the most important burden of reducing wages. Teachers are patient. Very patient. But each patience ends once. Sadly, teachers admit that the ministry is more disrupting than helping teachers to work. Recently, education is not a story about teachers but about students. The education system should be designed for students and not for teachers. And that's true. Of course, the student is the one why this system exists and is being built. However, a motivated and inspired student can only be found in a school where a motivated and inspired teacher is present. And the student's eyes can shine on his or her subject only if his or her eyes shine on it. Therefore, dignified working conditions and the provision of remuneration to the teacher are the best and, in fact, the only way to ensure quality of education in Latvia. No money is foreseen for the third priority in the 2016 budget. There is therefore obviously a serious mistake and this budget should be returned to the recast. I call for this not to be supported! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U67	Mr Pimenova has applied for the next debate. Would you have 10 minutes? Wouldn't be enough? So you'd have 10 minutes? No, there's a break. So, colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. Before going on a break, we have to register. Please call me! Please register the Members! While the results are being prepared, we welcome two colleagues – Janis Adamsons and Artus Centrum in this anniversary. (Applause) Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U68	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Boriss Cilevičs, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Rihards Eigims, Andrejs Elksniņš, Atis Lejiņš... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš from the grass: “I am!” ) and Sylvia Schiffe... Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U69	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U70	Dear colleagues, I call for seats. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U71	Hello! Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! Resurrection Ministers! The budget for next year is a direct continuation of the policy undertaken by the Latvian Government in its attempts to overcome the crisis. This policy was based on early conclusions on the causes of the crisis and addressed the problems at the expense of those fellow citizens who had the least chance to defend themselves economically. These same policies are shown on the page of each draft budget. From all the words explaining the situation in our country, voters will first remember the word "crisis". This is a situation in which everyone is immediately losing money, businesses are closing down, many fellow people are losing their jobs and are thus unable to repay their debts to the banks. It is the view that the crisis, the worst of which we experienced in 2009 and 2010, was an expression of the international economic crisis. But it's just part of the truth. Yes, indeed, when the crisis covered the whole world, in autumn 2008, Latvian export markets collapsed, tax revenues dropped sharply, and the State also undertook to pay the debts of Parex banka. To compensate for its expenses, the government signed an international loan programme. However, there were, in fact, two crises. One crisis was the result of an international crisis, while the other crisis was self-solved. Its roots have to be sought in the early 1990s, when we were transferred to Latvia the neoliberal model of capitalism developed by a group of economists at the University of Georgetown, established in Washington, D.C. The developers of this model denied state interference in managing the real economy processes, were sceptical about public investment in the economy and all expectations were linked to the financial markets. Our people's misfortune is one that I have already spoken of here from the tribunal sometimes - that it was not aware of a possible model of other capitalism at that time and is not known now. There is a correlation between the two crises: one crisis developed against the background of the other crisis, and the effects of the second crisis, with an even more severe burden, were pushed down by the effects of the first crisis. The global crisis started when the private capital had already flooded the Latvian financial markets and the mortgage bubble had grown and broken due to cheap real estate. This resulted in a huge debt on the part of private borrowers. In order to repay it, Latvians went to profit emigration because the government acted as the international lenders demanded. It started to cut all ministries' spending, which we still see today, and to raise taxes... Our neoliberal governments were put into practice the so-called strict austerity policy. The loan is gradually being repaid, the world crisis is receding, but the old economic policy crisis is continuing in Latvia. This is demonstrated by the fact that our government does not want and does not know how to develop the real economy; by the fact that, like other euro area countries, governments are implementing budgetary policies instead of economic policies, as well as by planning macroeconomic indicators rather than sectoral developments. What would we do if we did not have the European Union's structural funds oxygen cushion?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The 2016 budget shows and demonstrates the crisis of the economic policy of the ruling elite and the neoliberal philosophy of economic development. The most disliked expression of this is the lack of growth in gross domestic product, so that the State can meet its obligations under the Treaty by collecting taxes. This is another habit that the growth in GDP, which the government is proud of, is in fact not an increase, but a stagnation. Simply put, the country does not have enough money. Therefore, the government refuses to reduce personal income tax despite being established by law. Therefore, throughout the summer, it was said that there should be an increase in the most profitable tax for the public budget - value added tax or VAT. The government now proposes to place VAT on residential housing management services, which will only increase the cost of these services and "sit" directly through the pockets of the low-income recipients. This is, in fact, a situation of deflation, which is why market demand is low and consequently, the motivation for doing business is also low. The popularity of forms of business such as micro-enterprises is largely due to the fact that traders are not prepared to invest money in a low-market and longer-term environment. But how to make the market generate extra money if the country has limits on external loans and it is not possible to inject the money into the market. The Fiscal Discipline Act itself is the direct consequence of the implementation of the neoliberal philosophy developed by the University of Georgetown, but this philosophy is also followed by the European Commission. Two weeks ago, I attended a conference organised by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, where taxation policy was discussed. A member of the Finance Commission of the French National Assembly stated that only two people in the French Parliament understand what structural deficits are. A balanced budget indicator, previously used only in academic literature and only to make judgements, has been laid down in the very foundations of the European Treaty - the so-called Fiscal Compact - and the Latvian Government has gladly signed it in 2012. I listened to what my French colleagues said and counted. If there are 577 Members in the National Assembly at all, and 100 in our Saeima, which means about six times less, and the education of our Members is not lower, then it already turns out in our Saeima that one third of the Members understand what structural deficits are. I have every reason to leave this third to the Chair of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, Mr Šadurski. Of course, only one third. I hope Mr. Shadursky won't be angry about it. The fiscal discipline law not only prohibits the borrowing of funds for development above a certain level, as required by the European Union regulation, but also prevents the spending of funds that would have been saved thanks to a favourable financial market configuration. For example, very recently, our proposal - to buy up mortgaged Eurobonds, invest them at a lower interest rate and thus save millions at the expense of public debt service - was rejected, not on the basis of the experts' analytical objections, but on the basis of the Fiscal Discipline Act. The reason for the crisis is that our budgetary policy, by replacing economic policy, takes care of macro-economic indicators, but does not know how to eliminate the consequences of austerity. The low wages of public sector employees are a direct consequence of this. Trade union alarms are also heard. In order to increase the average wage for medical professionals by 10 percent and to prevent the emigration of medical professionals, EUR 22 million is needed, EUR 10.9 million for the funding of the new model for teachers' pay, EUR 3 million for the increase in the salary of higher education institutions and researchers, and EUR 2.9 million for the increase in the remuneration of cultural workers. The fact that medical, teacher, police masks are empty is not only a fall in their well-being; the next is a fall in prestige, a fall in people's self-esteem - those who take care of the welfare of fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, you're playing with fire! Let us not forget that the doctors - that is our health, the police - that is our safety, the teachers - are the future of our children. You're now... A serious situation has arisen in health care. It is precisely because of the austerity policy that the country is no longer able to fulfil its constitutional obligations. Government promises have not been fulfilled. Contrary to the Government declaration, spending on health care as a percentage of GDP has not increased, but has fallen further - from 3 per cent to 2.9 per cent, which is far from the 4.5 per cent recommended by the World Health Organisation. Result: Health care, as I said before, cannot cost 14 percent of the population in Latvia because of its cost. In order to meet at least part of the trade union requirements as well as to increase the income of the peers who need it most, it is necessary to introduce a progressive personal income tax, which will result in a higher surplus of money after tax. Since 2009, our group has been in favour of a progressive tax. On June 5, following our proposal and with our direct participation in the Saeima, an expert conference “What progressive tax is needed in Latvia?” . It looked at various forms of progressive taxation. The overall conclusion was in favour of the introduction of a progressive tax. At the beginning of this year, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) also encouraged the introduction of a progressive tax system in Latvia. The organization indicated that the tax burden of Latvia is the main reason for the high level of structural unemployment of the country. Therefore, the country needs to think more about how to reduce labour taxes, especially for those categories of workers whose income is the lowest. However, the government carried out its homework by offering the Saeima to approve the solidarity tax, as well as the differentiated non-applicable minimum. It is just a pale copy of what Latvia needs. The efficiency and effectiveness of progressive taxation has been tested in a large number of market economy countries. This is the only way to reduce social inequalities. The only means! However, provided that it covers all types of income - wages, income from capital (including dividends, income from capital gains) and taxable income from economic activities. The progressive motivational factor of personal income tax is even stronger when this tax is applied at the same time as the exemption of entrepreneurs from corporate income tax in the case where profits are invested or remain undistributed and may be accumulated. The existing system of corporate tax relief looks well and effective, but it is excessively complex and administratively costly. By exempting reinvested profits from corporate income tax, an economic operator is motivated to invest profits in productive investments rather than expenditures and not to hide profits by manipulating accounting in order to reduce the tax due. There is another argument. At present, banks only credit large companies, which are also able to benefit from a wide range of incentives to discount UINs, while small and medium-sized enterprises, which are not credited by banks, are also forced to pay corporate tax, thus reducing the amount of money they have to invest in development. Non-taxation of reinvestable profits would solve the shortage of debt. Moreover, the possibility of not paying tax on undistributed profits would allow economic operators to accumulate funds for large investment over two to five years rather than borrow in banks. This is what we tell the government for the third season in a row, but the victory has not moved from place to place. Dear Members, This draft budget is based on false, unproven postulates and does not solve the problems that the public is being burdened with. This will and will remain a stabilising budget for stagnation. That is why the Group does not support the draft budget and calls on the Members of the Saeima not to support it. Finally, Latvia needs economic policy and another budget. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U72	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U73	Dear colleagues, In Latvia, people are so tolerant and painful that they need to be severely hurt in order to take action. I would therefore like to express my opinion on a new model for teachers' remuneration - a reform that is long-term and painfully bucking - in the context of the draft state budget. Initially, in theory, the model has been rather logical. The remuneration of teachers in the new model is calculated on the basis of 36 working hours per week, which includes all the work to be performed by the teacher in the study process: an average of 24 hours, their preparation, works repair, consultations, work with parents of pupils, activities for the development of the school. Teachers' salaries depend on the number of pupils in the class and are set at between EUR 760 and EUR 1000 per month per function unit. But in practice this pay option has failed. By introducing a new salary model in the form it looks like at the moment, a significant proportion of educators will fall. This is demonstrated by the experience of the Latvian educational institutions, which participated in the approval of the new model of teachers' remuneration in the last school year. Teachers who work part-time do not promise anything wrong, but there are also no significant benefits for them. Perhaps one can earn some eleven euro more, depending on the load. Young educators who have recently begun to work at school and who are under stress will benefit in particular, as the new model does not provide for a load-based distribution, nor do they take into account age. But they will benefit for a short time. Once they get bigger, they won't get more. Other teachers, on the other hand, are losers in large educational establishments. Those teachers, who work long and many, will not get any salary supplements, even lose. Working on the new model falls short of what a teacher does outside the compulsory schooling hours. There are meetings of parents, out-of-hour events, class tours. There are also teachers who run methodological associations, and they will receive nothing for this work. So it turns out that the losers are those who work in good faith and many who contribute to the development of the school. Moreover, the discussions seem to have completely forgotten the teaching authorities and the teachers of primary school. For example, it is known that for objective reasons for primary teachers, the load varies between 14 and 18 hours. The question arises: where will we take 36 hours a week for the particular primary teacher? Clearly, if a teacher gets under the average salary in the country, the education system is slipping down, but in the current situation, teachers still do not have any idea how much they deserve. For example, the €405 (before tax) for the beginner and €420 for a teacher with at least ten years of experience, which is now recorded in the government regulations for one-load or 21 contact hours, is one of the lowest wages in the countries of the European Union. However, the true picture does not reflect these figures. If the new teacher starts working in a small rural school, only one subject with a small number of hours will be taught, the monthly salary will be well below the official load. If you find a job at a big school in town, there may be significant differences in pay. There is still room for success with the municipality. Those who want and can, teachers' allowances with allowances or health insurance policies, and this is, of course, only welcome. I am very aware that the aim of the new model for teachers' salaries is to sort out the sector so that teachers are not overloaded and recycled. Only the problem is: in order for the Ministry of Education and Science to implement its plan, the new model of teachers' remuneration needs an additional EUR 9, 10, 11 million or more in 2016 (no one knows exactly anymore, figures vary every week), and in the coming years - another EUR 10 million. As far as I am aware, there is no agreement in the Cabinet of Ministers on such amounts in the long term. Hence, most teachers are likely to lose their lives as a result of the introduction of this model. For example, teachers working in big cities and strong schools will receive less because they can no longer work at two rates. They could have a salary of up to EUR 100 and up to EUR 300. Moreover, due to the reform, not less than 15 percent of Latvian teachers could become unemployed! This, however, runs counter to the original guidelines of the reform authors that the reform will not lead to loss, but only to benefits. On the other hand, small regional schools, which are to a large extent designed to bring about this change, will also receive less money because they have a small number of students. Some of these small regional schools, such as the Director, would work at a rate of 0.5 or even 0.3. And then I wonder, How can you run a school with half-time or a third of the rates? Of course, there are jobs for which the remuneration depends on the number of children, but there are also administrative jobs where the number of children does not determine anything. I have no confidence in the money for the new teacher wage model, on how the Ministry will be given the funding that will be needed to implement the new teacher pay model. In any case, funding for the new teacher wage model in the next year's state budget cannot come from unforeseen resources. This is a very risky approach. I would like to emphasise that funding for teachers' salaries must be clear for several years to come, and teachers already need to be clear in this area so that people know what to count on. But it is not clear from discussions in government and parliament where and when the state will take money to introduce the new model of teachers' remuneration in the long term. Figures are the best arguments and show that the introduction and improvement of a new model for teachers' remuneration should be given specific funding both in the next year's budget and in the coming years, rather than talking about unforeseen resources, as the education sector is a public priority and wages are not and cannot be unforeseen expenditure. Let me be honest: I did not even hope that the task force chaired by the Prime Minister could resolve this problem situation. This working group has been only a formality. This is generally misleading for society: to create working groups, to encourage, to continue to work on the design of the model, although it is already clear that the time devoted to improving the model is very limited. And as a result, nothing was solved either. It is still unclear when this model could be fully prepared. And as this model will look like at the end, it is not clear to anyone anymore, ministers inclusive. I therefore have a good understanding of the teachers who are outrageous about the process of reform of the salaries of teachers, because without financial coverage, that is to say, thanks to the intangible 'Thanks' for work and empty promises, it is impossible to do so. I therefore have a constructive proposal to improve the model. Get rid of this cosmos in general. This is, of course, a source because it contains a lot of unclear issues and equally unclear, contradictory and unfinished calculations. I also cannot rule out that the new model will be even more heavy for municipalities than it has been so far, because money is being redeployed rather than being imposed. So we can draw conclusions. And they're like this. If there is no exit, the exit is where the entrance is. There's nothing to do with the reform if there's no money. I call for the introduction of a model of "money follower" and a return to the timetable for raising teachers' pay (as provided for by the Education Act), which was frozen during the crisis. I am convinced that there is an urgent need for an agreement in Parliament on such an approach and on such a timetable. This step is necessary because education is one of the country's priorities for economic growth and it is the work of educators that provides the country with a successful future. But Latvian teachers' pay is unfortunately one of the lowest in Europe. Such pay lags behind other indicators and does not entirely match the level of training, knowledge, skills required from a professional educator. And this shows that the government does not appreciate the work of these people. The average wage is gradually increasing for the public sector and for the economy as a whole. Moreover, with 1 January 2016, the minimum wage in the country will be 370 euros, so the difference between the low-skilled and the highly qualified, often with two higher education and master degree, will be only 50 euros. If someone thinks that it is normal for teachers to look for another job during their holidays and summer vacations to earn in order to pay the municipal bills, then I feel sad. I believe that it is precisely a lack of awareness, uncertainty, different information and silence in the education system that is the reason why teachers are at risk of frustration. Without clear rules and stability, we cannot work. A year has already shifted to the end, but it is only mentioned: there will be money for reform or there will be no money. In fact, it is very regrettable to invest so much in the development and approval of a model of time, money and energy, so that in the end, a large proportion of teachers are left behind. I think that in order to reduce social tensions, we need a common assessment and a public document explaining everything to people. And there is a need for a schedule for raising wages - every year within the state budget we add 10 per cent of the salary to the teachers. I would like to hope that the immediate aim of several Members of the Saeima is to make teachers feel good, to have a sense of stability, to make people more motivated and always happy to come to work. The new model of teachers' remuneration must therefore be urgently abandoned. I invite the Saeima to evaluate the solution I have proposed. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U74	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U75	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Madam Prime Minister, very much. Ministers! Honourable Members! This budget is planned, in essence, not according to the results to be achieved - to the growth of the country and to the welfare of its population, but according to the functions of the ministries. Instead of thinking about the creation of money, investing in education and science and supporting entrepreneurs, the tax burden is once again increased. It reminds of the XIV-XV century when the king needed money and sent it to collect it from already poor subjects. It is wrong to plan the budget according to how much money is available and to divide it into a way that no one will die of hunger, but no one would have eaten it. If we want growth, then we need to find the means to invest in targeted and smart education reforms and science, because these investments will make a profit in the long term. Without investment in development, income will fall every year. And where will the bright minds come from, which will be able to create jobs and innovative products with high added value? A reduction in the supply of education, teacher’s prestige is falling, wages are not competitive, and young, talented people do not want to go to school. Parents will no longer receive co-financing to pay for certified cord while the child arrives in the kindergarten. Higher education requires quality, while at the same time providing only part of the funding needed to ensure that quality. Science has been measured in hunger for years, at the same time criticizing that it is not competitive and does not create innovation. For fuel years, a new model of teachers' salaries has been created, which in essence will exchange educators against each other, because some will be deducted to give to others, as well as the principle of proportionality between pre-school, school and higher education educators' salaries has not been respected. Moreover, even if this time the model is approved, the money in the budget for this purpose has not been earmarked at all. And so it was pleasant to listen today that 9 million will be found for the second reading. In a budget where there is no money - we have a budget with a minus sign - but you can find it! All coalition parties, including the Unity, agreed in their protocols of agreement with the LIZDA before the Saeima elections that it was necessary to achieve 12th Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers, firstly, to ensure annual increase in the state budget for education and science; secondly, to coordinate with social partners the timetable for raising teachers' pay for 2015 and subsequent years; thirdly, with 2016 gradually start financing the salaries of pre-school teachers for implementation of pre-school programmes; fourthly, to ensure gradual increase of higher education and scientific funding in order to comply with the procedure established by laws. Unfortunately, none of these promises can be seen in the 2016 budget, and part of these promises are now actively opposed. A conscious policy of lies has become a normal tradition of political culture in the coalition. In the long term, we will respect all of us, as well as everyone in Latvia! I would remind you that one year ago, I said that in 2010 art universities had reduced their funding and their curricula had been reduced. A year ago! This year 78 per cent of the funding is available to restore the training plans. Nothing has been done in all these years! And my colleagues must reduce their subjects to the next school year. So I have a question: what specialists will we start preparing with the 2016 school year? Mr. High Minister for Finance! You have just said in your speech here from the troupe: the Ministry of Defence has been allocated an additional EUR 70 million, for the home system - 30 million, so why didn't you tell the rest? The Culture Capital Fund? ( Minister for Finance J. Reirs: “I told you! ” ) No, you said the interest - 14, 10, and the listener did not know how many million funds will be made available in 2016. If we have the law every year science must be 0.15 percent of gross domestic product, then it would be very interesting to know in absolute terms how big your power is now in this 10 percent. If you say... I believe that if we point out the absolute figures for one sector, then it is very interesting for citizens to know the absolute figures for all sectors. Thank you. Therefore, I believe that the draft budget for 2016 cannot be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U76	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U77	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Since the Saeima's order roll forbids conversation with the hall, my question will be rhetorical. And I want to ask the rulers: why do you not love your people so much? Why don't you love the people of Latvia so much? What is the first greeting that we usually say to a person when we congratulate him on various celebrations of life, on happy events? We welcome and wish good health. And what do we usually say when there are different problems? Then we say that the main thing is health, and everything else after that. Health is primary. But I can claim with full responsibility that while watching and participating in these processes during an independent Latvia, I see that during the 20 years with Latvians, Latvian medical and Latvian medicine are conducted such a certain survival experiment. Whoever survives, it will exist. And whatever the times have been in these 20 years - there have been better years, there have been worse years - the treatment of this sector has practically been the same. And it has been, you might say, on the principle of surplus. Not after what is needed and what is necessary, but how much money is invented to give this sector, and accordingly, all these quotas, tariffs and all other things have been planned and counted. Reforms have been carried out during this period. Until 1996, municipalities replied to health care. In 1996 the central government decided that it would better deal with the sector and it was argued that taking over this function and funding under the responsibility of the central government would make the health sector more qualitative, accessible and efficient. Reforms started precisely in the municipal field because the municipalities owned the majority of hospitals, and many of these hospitals were optimised. The hospitals that wanted to survive optimized themselves, revised their spending positions, reduced to the minimum, tried to live as much as possible while providing services to their citizens. When this process had ended and the hospitals had been nooptimised, the beds had not been optimised, and the number of doctors had also decreased, it became clear that it was a black hole in which we were putting and putting money and paybacks out of it, could no longer be invoked. So, what's next? What is the next step, in which way can we do something else in order not to give this funding? In fact, there were no further arguments, at least logical and understandable. And this has been pointed out to us throughout the last 20 years by the World Health Organisation, with a very delicate but very constructive name for all those weak points in the health system; also by colleagues in other countries of the European Union who have always been surprised to say: "How can you even exist with such funding?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ And the World Health Organization has said that there must be... is a red line that can no longer talk about a system in a particular sector. They said: “You are in fact all the time... on this red border.’ Finally, the OECD has also recognised that there is the most accessible health care system in Latvia. If we look at and compare ourselves with other European countries, then we see that, wherever there are negative figures, we are in front of three, but where there are positive figures, we are in the last three positions. What does this indicate? This is evidence of attitude. It's a sign of understanding... or a lack of understanding of what is a national priority. What is a national priority? I think people. The territory and people of the country. Because if there are no residents in this territory, then what - let's stop with forests, as I said last time, as one of the leading politicians once said: "What problems?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There will be no people, let's plant the forests! Let's bring migrants in!" But what about Latvia? Are Latvians? With the Latvians? With the minorities who have lived here for hundreds of years? I think that it is very, very responsible to approach this issue and it is necessary to put an end to this long-standing experiment once, because really Latvian citizens, Latvian medical professionals, are on the extreme border of Latvian science. And if you had listened to what the doctors were talking about at the Saeima building... Well, there wasn’t any, let’t say a nice speech, there was no desire to show up, but there was a true, profound pain and the last cry: “It may be that you will finally hear us?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. "And that's why I'm talking about, I'm not going to support this budget either, and I call on the other Members to vote against it and still to review the priorities of our country, and put it first in man so that man can be alive and healthy, and then there will be other things that are needed. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U78	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U79	Hello, dear colleagues! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Šadurskis: “I will not support you either!” ) I will not mention the figures today in my brief comment, because they have been called by the dictators today, and, of course, everyone wants to see more figures in revenue and better in the expenditure side. I will now rather talk about the attitude that I have been watching in the Chamber today. Dear colleagues, It seems to me that Members of some parties have a feeling of self-determination, or a feeling of being partly condemned. Look at our colleagues in the Unity! Only Mr Shadurski is listening carefully, because I understand that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is the responsible commission he commands, which cares that the budget law is perhaps in the best form and that its adoption takes place in accordance with the government's decision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Šadurskis is up and down. Thank you very much. The rest of us do not care what we are talking about here, because in reality, Members have the confidence that what the government has prepared will be adopted by a majority of votes; absolutely no matter what numbers are recorded there; no matter what kind of attitude towards revenue; most importantly, to ensure the areas that I would particularly like to support. In particular, those ministers or those municipalities where we are. And, of course, some ministers, who are not particularly loved, say: “Selfly, obey your voice! You won't find the money. But if you're polite, maybe you'll get something." Some municipalities may be similarly treated. I think... Of course, I also understand the attitude of Members towards this draft budget and all the amendments to the specific legislation, because it is not really up to Members to create additional funding. It is clear that this issue should be addressed to our respected Cabinet of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the forefront, because in reality it is your responsibility to make the state budget acceptable to Latvian citizens. And not just for supervisors or gentlemen in another place. The state budget is designed and adopted in the interests of Latvian citizens. That confidence in the Cabinet is, of course, entirely justified. But when we listened to the speech of the Finance Minister today, my fellow Members, I thought that his consultant, who prepared this speech... I think the consultant lives either in another country or in the emidelite ideal city of the Sun, where you say, you know, we have a very good system, we're all going very well. But when you look at what the Finance Minister or Prime Minister, calling for the budget to be voted on, speaks from the tribunal every year, then I think the rhetoric is very similar: now we are going to develop a very good tax policy. And every year, we are taking steps to develop a very good future tax policy. And when we look at the National Development Plan, it is about the stability of tax policy, which Mrs Prime Minister mentioned about a month ago. And its tax stability in this budget package is particularly obvious. When we are talking about revenue, and the public budget, of course, depends on the revenue - how much we get in the budget - I would very much like to have more at all times. But then I get associations with those times that normal-developed countries usually criticise. I mean, I don't want to call for feudalism, but, you know, there were times when my dad needed money, he said that we had to figure out a new tax. I very much hope that next year, it will not come up with some kind of moustache tax, or something like that, to complement the national budget. Because in this case, we divide that money into the budget that we get... Yes, “grow” your people. I would very much like to hope that, in the coming year, the government will think about having a budget in the country, which is a country's development budget, not a budget for milking the population of Latvia. For income to be generated not by increasing or reducing taxes, but by encouraging more revenue from the economy. I very much hope that the government will think about it and that the tax policy will be stable, and those taxes that seem to be not normal will be abolished. And when we discuss the draft budget and the related laws for the second reading, our party will certainly come up with concrete ideas in the sensible draft laws that should be incorporated, but we will certainly not be able to support unreasonable laws that are actually directed at one. To what is being promoted very well at the moment: “You know, people, if you have difficulty living here – we have free borders, you can go to other countries! There, social benefits are better and wages are higher." Is this the objective of this budget - to withdraw money from those who pay? And put an extra burden on those who want to develop here. Thank you. I hope that our Members all think that Latvian citizens also have the right to live a better life and not just pay taxes. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U80	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U81	Dear colleagues, Given that we are talking about the multiannual budget, the 2016 budget and the entire budget package as a whole, I would nevertheless like to say a few words about the 2016-2018 budget. And I would like to start with a quote from the previous minister, the former head of the Commission for Sustainable Development, in the interview “Independent Morning newspaper” this October: “If we are talking about a three-year budget, then we collect all our wishes in the budgets of the following years, but no one knows. If one year later it turns out that none of this is possible, then it is taken away again.’ ( End quoted) So you have to ask: who has this budget? Is this budget for some officials of the Ministry of Finance so that they can receive salaries, salary supplements and bonuses? Is this budget meant for your public relations so that you can tell the people how it will be in the bright future - then? Should this be an essential guide for the future, Mrs. Āboltiņa? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediates.) Mrs. Strautums! If we were just talking about a three-year budget, then it would be a fantastic opportunity for you to climb the platform, a fantastic opportunity to talk about Latvia in 2018, about your vision, your dreams and your commitment. You could have shown the whole Unity that it was not a mistake to make you the head of a party's "rescue committee" but a smart move from Unity. But you, regrettably, climbed to talk only about the 2016 budget, and most of all you did not talk about the multiannual budget. You could have left this speech on the 2016 budget to Mr Reira, he would have read it very well, and he would have done it very well. All right! If you were not, Mrs Straujuma, then perhaps the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, could give a speech about economic development over the next three years. Latvia and its people are thirsty for faster - yes, faster! - economic development. ( From the hall: “Mother, what did you want to say? ” ) The Minister could indicate how she will work to obtain new export markets - the markets that need to be eaten by entrepreneurs who have lost the Russian market; how she will fight for a healthier business environment, and much more. But no! The Minister decided not to step in. Minister, you could also talk about your personal passion for space. During this year you have won money for Latvian space in rather large amounts. Now come talk about Latvia in space in 2018! Well, if not the Minister of Economics, then the Minister of Culture Dace Melbārde was able to climb this platform to talk about Latvia's future. I understand that it would be difficult for the Minister to avoid the topic of taboo National Union - integration of refugees in Latvia. The National Association is about to send refugees back, while the Minister is about to integrate refugees. A little contradiction... But no matter what! The Minister could come here and talk about the Song Festival 2018. Will there be collectives of men and wives from different regions of Latvia who will perform at the Great Estrade at the Song Festival? Perhaps, though, there will be no one there, because it will not be safe to climb there and only Sonor Wice or Kristīne Opolais will be able to sing there? But no, neither is the Minister for Culture here! ( From the hall: “She is on the mission! ” ) Dear Ministers, Prime Minister! You did not take advantage of your opportunities to speak to people and to people. This was a wonderful opportunity you missed. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U82	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U83	Hello, colleagues! There is such a good saying that small lies usually produce big lies. And, being in the real shock, after Mr Bondaras told me that a landguard had received two smaller shoes when weeping and lowering his eyes, and imagined how the poor people with small shoes were sitting in the woods in the sons and watching the enemy singing past them, I tried to find out how it really is there. And then I thought that the Ministry of Defence specifically bought smaller shoes so that no one would use them, and their wives then trade these shoes in the Central Market, and I was given such indescribable feelings. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “That’s it! How do you know all this?” ) Then I simply called the Earthguard commander and asked: “Speak, what do you have with those shoes?” And you know what he told me? That the Ministry of Defence does not grant the Land Guard any form, form or size of shoes. There's only boots. ( From the hall: “Ah! ” Thank you very much. So that's where Mr. Bondara found this shoe, and that's what he wrote this little story for little children to stay on his conscience. But this also shows some incompetentness. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars from the drug: “Let us consider this issue at the next National Security Commission!” ) Let's look, yes, yes, yes! Just take that shoe with you! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U84	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does Mr Shadursky want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U85	Yes, honourable colleagues! I thank the Head of Government and the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Defence for their speech in the debate. Thank you, colleagues. The debate, I think, was very valuable, and we will take account of all those who have spoken out in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. In addition, we will have an excellent opportunity within the Commission to explain to Mr Bondara that the internal legislation for the Earthguard is actually limited to a rural uniform with boots. And if that was your shoes from a relative to show us, we'll find out all this. Okay. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: “From Cinderella!” ) I do not want to add any more on behalf of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U86	Thank you to the rapporteur. We need to vote on each of the draft laws of the package separately. So the Commission is asking for support...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U87	Yes, honourable colleagues, please support the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 85, it's two, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a deadline for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U89	Dear colleagues, The Commission is asking for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals at 17.00 on 6 November and the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission will ask the Bureau to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Saeima on 30 November for a second final reading of the budget and its package.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U90	Thank you. There are no other proposals. As a result, the deadline for submitting proposals is 6 November at 17.00, and the deadline for consideration at the Saeima sitting is 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U91	The Commission is asking for support for the first reading of the draft law amending the vehicle operation tax and company passenger vehicle tax law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U92	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 32, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U93	As before - the deadline for submitting proposals is 6 November at 17.00, the second reading of the draft law is 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U94	Consequently, proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 6 November of this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 30 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U95	Dear colleagues, Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U96	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 27, for - 7. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U97	The deadline for submitting proposals - November 6 at 17.00, viewing - November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U98	There are no other proposals. Therefore, the proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 6 November this year, the session of the Saeima will be held on 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U99	Please support the draft law on the First Reading Amendment to the Postal Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U100	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the amendment to the Postal Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, against - 28, refrains - 5. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U101	We will wait until 6 November at 17.00, and the viewing time will be 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U102	So the proposals must be submitted by 6 November this year, and the debate will be held by the Saeima at its meeting on 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U103	Please support the draft law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U104	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - 1, for - 4. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U105	November 6, at 17.00 and November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U106	Therefore, the proposals should be submitted by 6 November of this year, the examination time at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U107	Please support the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U108	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 86, for - no, for - 7. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U109	November 6, at 17.00 and November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U110	So the proposals must be submitted by 6 November this year, and the debate will be held by the Saeima at its meeting on 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U111	Dear colleagues, Please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - no, for - 8. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U113	November 6, at 17.00, examination - November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U114	Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U115	Please support the draft law on Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U116	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's against - 35, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration of the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U117	November 6, at 17.00, examination - November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U118	Consequently, proposals should be submitted by 6 November this year, and consideration should be given at the Saeima meeting on 30 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U119	Dear colleagues, Please support the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 34, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U121	November 6, at 5 pm And consideration - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U122	Thank you. Proposals are to be submitted by November 6, the time of the Saeima sitting - November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U123	Please also support the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues””.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U124	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 67, 27, abstaining. - No. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the time for the examination of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U125	November 6, at 5 pm And examination, 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U126	So the proposals must be submitted by 6 November this year, the parliamentary sitting will be 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U127	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on amendments to the law on housing administration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U128	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - 1, for - 3. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U129	November 6, at 5 pm Review - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U130	Therefore, the proposals should be submitted by 6 November this year, the examination period by 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U131	Colleagues, please support the first reading of the draft law on the amendment to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U132	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - 7 and for - 4. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U133	November 6, at 5 pm And examination, 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U134	Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U135	Please support the first reading draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax””.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U136	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Fees and Taxes”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 89, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading and the time of the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U137	We will wait until November 6, at 5 p.m. And please look at the meeting on 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U138	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 6 November this year. Review time in the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U139	Please support the first reading draft law “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax””.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U140	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -34, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U141	November 6, at 5 pm And consideration - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U142	Proposals are due by 6 November this year. Review of the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U143	Please support the first reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U144	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 85, it's against 7, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U145	November 6, at 17.00, and consideration - November 30 of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U146	Thank you. Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U147	Please support the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U148	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on environmental impact assessment! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 86, for - no, for - 3. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U149	November 6, at 17.00, consideration - November 30th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U150	Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U151	Dear colleagues, Please support the first reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U152	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 87, against - no, abstaining - 4. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U153	As before - November 6, at 17.00 and discussion at the meeting on November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U154	Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U155	Please support the draft law on Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U156	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 76, against - 14, abstaining - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration of the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U157	November 6, at 5 pm, discussion at the meeting on November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U158	Proposals for the second reading must be submitted by 6 November of this year, the time of the sitting of the Saeima - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U159	Please support the draft law on solidarity tax at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U160	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on solidarity tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 13, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law (slaughter with hammer.) The Saeima is sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U161	We will wait until 6 November at 17.00 and discussion at the meeting on 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U162	Thank you. Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U163	Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U164	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 1, for - 11. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration of the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U165	November 6, at 17.00, examination - November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U166	Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U167	Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U168	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration of the draft law at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U169	November 6, at 17.00, and discussion at the meeting on November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U170	Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U171	Please support the draft law on unemployment insurance at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U172	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on unemployment insurance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 85, it's against 7, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please determine the time for submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U173	November 6, at 17.00 and November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U174	Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U175	Colleagues, please also support the draft law “Amendment to the law on maternity and sickness insurance” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U176	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, six, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please determine the time for submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U177	Proposals - November 6, at 17.00 and consideration - November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U178	Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U179	Please support the draft law on Amendments to the Electricity Market Act at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U180	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - 1, for - 4. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please determine the time for submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U181	Term of the proposals - November 6, at 17.00 and consideration - November 30th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U182	Proposals must be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U183	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2016, 2017 and 2018 at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U184	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2016, 2017 and 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please determine the time for submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U185	The time limit for proposals - November 6, at 17.00 and the time of consideration at the Saeima sitting - November 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U186	Proposals shall be submitted by 6 November of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 30 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U187	Finally, on behalf of the Commission, colleagues, I ask you to support the draft law on the state budget for 2016 at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U188	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading support of the draft law “On State Budget 2016”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please determine the time for submission of proposals for second reading and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U189	The Commission will wait until 5 p.m. on 6 November and call for an extraordinary meeting of the Saeima on 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U190	Thank you. Consequently, the proposals should be submitted by 6 November this year, and consideration at the Saeima meeting - 30 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U191	Colleagues, thank you for your support for the draft budget and accompanying package.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U192	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next item on the agenda is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda the draft decision “On the procedure (form) for the submission of proposals for the 2016 national budget package”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U193	Dear colleagues, In order to facilitate work for both the applicants and those staff who will work on these proposals, the members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and the Government, and for all of us, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has prepared, as every year, the draft decision on the order and form of the submission of proposals. This year's draft decision is almost identical to last year's. There is only one, but I think there is a sufficiently significant difference in point 7 of this draft decision, which states that a brief description should be added to the proposal. Last year, this was a recommended norm. Sometimes when we face questions about why this or another proposal has been supported, but another proposal has not been supported, it is very convenient for us to have access to this explanation, which has been done with 254 characters and which tells us the most important about this proposal. And I also hope that adding such an explanation to the proposal will make it very easier for the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to work, because then we will be better able to go into the substance of the whole proposal. And, honourable colleagues, may I also say this on behalf of my own, not just on behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission: please submit the proposals in a responsible manner, taking into account our budgetary options and indeed taking into account the importance of the proposals! And I would like to explain once again from this troupe to all colleagues and perhaps even journalists, hoping that I will be heard that there are no parliamentary quotas in the Saeima (from the hall: Ooo!) ) and the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission will evaluate each proposal submitted in substance. (Applause) Thank you. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U194	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the procedure (form) for submitting proposals for the 2016 State Budget Package”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - no, for - 1. Consequently, a decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U196	Colleagues! Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been examined and we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the Member, Sergey Mirskim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U197	Dear colleagues, Those Members who participate in the Group of Members for cooperation with the Russian Parliament, please... I invite you to a short sitting in the Yellow Hall immediately!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U198	Name of the Secretary of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U199	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Boris Cilevičs, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Rihards Eigims and Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-03-PT12-326-U200	Thank you. So I closed the sitting.
