ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U1	Dear colleagues, good morning! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the Saeima sitting. Before starting to discuss the agenda adopted by the Bureau, amendments to the agenda should be examined. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks for amendments to the agenda of the meeting to include the draft law “Amendments to the law on the regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications”. Are there any objections to Members?’ There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Putra, Debtor, Trupovnieks, Šadurskis and Ķirsis are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers for referral to commissions. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include a draft decision “On consent of 12th Saeima Member Solvita Āboltiņa to administrative responsibility”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Dauge, Mūrniece, Kūtris, Lībiņa-Egnere and Imants Krādnieks have submitted a draft law “Amendments to the Saeima’s Rules of Procedure” and Members Mūrniece, Lībiņa-Egnere, Daugė, Silver and Berzins are asking to amend the agenda of the Saeima’s sitting and to include it in the drafts for referral to the commissions. Are there any objections to Members? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of including the agenda of the sitting and the referral to the committees of the draft law on amendments to the parliamentary order roll! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 51, against - 28, refrains. The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies on Passenger Vehicle Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Viļuma, are you going to talk about it? Mr. Viļuma won't talk. Mr. Pimenova, are you going to talk about it or 'no'? ( From the drug depot. I.Pimenov: Against! ) So speak against the application of Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U2	President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law transferred the planned changes to the vehicle operating tax payment procedure planned for 1 January 2017, which is intended to pay the tax on the actual period of vehicle operation. We believe that the transposition of this measure is useless and therefore do not support this draft law and we call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U3	None of the Members has applied to speak in favour. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies Tax on Light Vehicles”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Arvīds Platopers has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Members of “From the heart to Latvia” do not support the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” to the commission and invite all of you to do so. ‘ From the heart to Latvia, Members support the application of excise duty on liquids used in electronic cigarettes and the increase of excise duty on alcoholic beverages, smoking tobacco and tobacco leaves, as provided for in these amendments. In our country, a large number of smokers and heavy alcohol consumption, and the revenue from excise duty and value added tax charged on the consumption of these goods, would be able to obtain money and channel this revenue to science and education, and therefore to the salaries of educators. But in no case can we support an increase in the rate of excise duty on fuel through these amendments. Increasing the rate of excise duty on fuel will create an additional burden for citizens, affecting the overall budget and daily life of several families. At the same time, a large proportion of people with lower incomes who are at risk of poverty but who need to use a vehicle for their daily needs will also be forced to purchase fuel, and this will have a significant negative impact on their daily lives. Have we considered those who live in regions, who have to bring their children to schools because close schools are closed; those who need to reach the district centre to deal with local government issues or to receive health care services? With regard to the 2016 budget, the Prime Minister has pointed out that a number of other measures are foreseen that will increase the well-being of people, families, especially children. The executive speaks beautifully about reducing inequality and increasing prosperity, but in reality it has a significant impact on people's standard of living with their unthinkable tax policy. ‘ From the heart to Latvia” will always support socially responsible state policy, one of the cornerstones of which is reduction of inequality and poverty, as well as listening to the public opinion. I do not believe that raising the tax on fuel will boost the well-being of citizens and reduce poverty. I believe that the desire to raise a tax on fuel is a failure to respect and despise the majority of the population's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U5	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U6	Dear President, Dear colleagues, A very respectful group “From the Heart to Latvia”! I would like to make it clear that the only way to raise excise duty on smoking and alcohol is to open up this law and make it available to Members for improvement. If you do not support the transfer of this law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, then, unfortunately, alcohol will not rise. On the other hand, if you oppose an increase in the excise duty on fuel, the only way you can do that is to put forward your proposals, to vote in favour of them and to try to convince the majority of the Saeima that you do not need to do so. If the law is not opened, then forgive me! - Nothing's going to happen. On the other hand, when we talk about fuel prices and see that oil prices in the world have fallen significantly (The Group said: “Soon there will be a rise!” ) and fuel prices in Latvia... Retail prices have fallen by more than 10 cents (various fluctuations but significant decreases), it should be said that the increase in excise duty proposed by the government will increase the retail price of petrol by about 3 cents and the price of diesel by about 1 cent, which is very little compared to the drop in fuel prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U7	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 31, for - 3. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Postal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, and to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. ‘ Igors Pimenovs has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U8	Dear colleagues, The losses incurred in the first half of 2016 by the public limited liability company Latvijas Pasts for the supply of goods from the state budget will not be compensated in the year when they will be incurred (in 2016), but the funds will be used to compensate the uncompensated part of the losses incurred in 2015. We oppose this draft law because we consider it to be useless, and we therefore call for the vote to be taken against it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U9	Thank you. The vote must therefore be taken. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Postal Law” to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's 25, it's not. The draft law has therefore been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Inguna Silverba, Member, against” has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U10	Honourable Members! Today we have to decide on the referral of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax to the commissions. ‘ From the heart to Latvia” invites you to vote responsibly and vote against these amendments to the law tabled by the government, thus voting against decisions made by the government, without counting on hundreds of thousands of people living in apartment homes, whose survival will be directly affected by the imposition of value added tax on housing management services. Of course, it is understandable that, in accordance with the Council of Europe directive, residential house management services, as well as cultural services - concerts and theatre performances - should be subject to value added tax. However, it is not understandable why, instead of offering solutions on the application of a reduced rate of value added tax, the Latvian Government will once again take the most traditional way by offering the standard rate of VAT. Knowing the way government works and how decisions are made, this is not surprising. I am convinced that, under the proposed infringement procedure against Latvia, the hidden reason for higher VAT rates is to withdraw the maximum amount of money from the population in the state budget. In the annex to the draft law there is no calculation of the amount to be paid for the management of the residential house for anyone who lives in a apartment house; how much it will cost each poor, poor, pensioner. According to the Ministry of Finance's replies to Members' questions on the application of VAT, the primary aim of these amendments is to bring the value added tax law into line with the directive, but citizens' solvency will be increased by other measures, which are also included in the budget package, with an increase in the minimum monthly salary, an unlimited minimum. There is no answer to all these other measures, on the contrary! - reduce the solvency of the population. When will the Latvian government think about Latvian citizens and their interests, their solvency, when designing and harmonising any amendments to the law? Looks like once again the Hop! presented by the Council of Europe. The Latvian government has not even been interested in how high, jumping right away, without paying attention to the interests of the people. There is a feeling that government ministers and officials feel that every house has a tree of money from which they can continuously harvest the euro in order to pay regular bills of heat, electricity, water, house management, buy a meal and even set aside money for the theatre, concert, perhaps for a book. The main thing is to get more than 12 million euros in the budget next year and 25 million in the coming years. I call for this draft law not to be supported in this form.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U11	Member Kārlis Šadurskis has applied to speak about.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U12	Dear colleagues, I do not want to remind you once again that, according to the parliamentary roll of order, we will be able to discuss the wording for the second reading. If we do not open the law, there will undoubtedly be an infringement procedure against Latvia, we will pay penalties, which, by the way, will be paid by all our taxpayers, including those mentioned by Mrs Silverba. And then that law will still have to be opened and VAT applied. We can discuss whether to apply a full or reduced VAT rate to the management of houses. If we find other revenue for the budget and if the majority of MEPs believe that a reduced rate can be applied, we can talk about it, but not open up this law would be very irresponsible. I would like to add that at the time when the government completed work on the draft law and submitted the draft law, discussions had not yet been concluded with the Ministry of Finance, the State Revenue Service and the computer engineering industry on the application of VAT reverse charge procedures to computer equipment, computers, tablets and mobile phones. In order to implement these measures, we do not need coordination with the European Commission; we only need to inform the European Commission. And the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission will submit proposals to the second reading of the draft law, and we will be able to move to reverse next year. There are different estimates of the extent to which we will be able to stop tax fraud schemes from doing so. Figures vary up to 40 (From drug depot. M.Bondar: “Sixty!” ) in EUR million. Perhaps this cannot be done in one year, but in any case it is an extremely necessary step. I can give you one example that may seem very surprising, and yet... Two thirds of the mobile phones bought so far in the European Union have passed through the Polish market, and Poland has started applying the VAT reverse charge as of July this year. Let us not, therefore, be illusions that these tax fraud schemes will be broken. No, no! They could just move to the Baltics. We therefore absolutely need this rule, which we must introduce into the value added tax law. If we do not open this law, Mrs Silver, then we cannot. And maybe so next year, the public budget could lose tens of millions of euros due to fraudulent VAT schemes. So this is an extremely important opening-up to the law in our budget package. ( From the drug depot. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U13	Thank you. One Member has spoken against, one for. And the question has to be decided... On the procedure, Mr. Pimenova? Please turn on the microphone for Pimenov!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U14	Thank you. I would also like to propose that two more parliamentary committees be given a future view of this draft law, namely the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. ( From the hall, J.Urbanovich and some other Members: “Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U15	Okay. So there is a proposal to add two additional commissions. Mr. Wucaan, too... Is that so? Please, turn on the microphone for Mr. Wuzan!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U16	Hello, colleagues! As Head of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, I believe that the Commission for Education, Culture and Science should not view this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U17	So we have to vote... There is a proposal for a separate vote on the referral to each commission. Are Members in agreement with this vote? Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 4, for - 22. The draft law has been passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Now we will vote in favour of handing over the draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government as the co-responsible commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government as a co-responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 41, for - 8. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Please vote mode! Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science as a joint committee! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 57, for - 5. So the draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Consequently, the draft law has been passed only on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Pimenova, are you going to speak 'no'? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pimenov lost his consent.) Igor Pimenov has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U18	Dear colleagues, This draft law will be moved to a later stage, i.e. until 31 December 2018, the probation programmes implemented by the State Probation Service for the convicted persons who are serving in detention institutions, as the budget will not be allocated to this purpose. The relocation of these programmes may lead to a worsening of the situation of the convicted, so the group is not in favour of this draft law and you are also calling for it not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the National Administration and Municipal Commission. Member Igor Pimenov has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U20	Dear Saeima! With this draft law, the government is in fact refusing to allocate funds to the budget for a series of measures needed to resolve the issue of assistance in housing matters. No funds will be allocated from the state budget as a cultural monument of state importance for the restoration of recognised dwellings, restoration of dwellings, if their technical condition has been recognised as dangerous to human life or health in accordance with the procedure laid down by regulatory enactments, restoration of dwellings in which the consequences of a terrorist act, accident, natural disaster or other disaster must be eliminated, as well as for carrying out energy efficiency measures in residential homes. Thus, all this load falls on the shoulders of municipalities. The municipality can help, but the state will not help. We do not support this approach and we cannot support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in the Resolution of Apartment Issues” establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has therefore been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 75, against - 11, abstaining. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Tax and Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Inga Bite, Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U22	Dear colleagues, The draft law provides for a waiver of the government's promise to reduce personal income tax and relief for dependent persons. Two things that make this draft law impossible to support. A very significant part of Latvia's population is already working and earning and paying taxes in England or Ireland. However, at the moment another significant part of the Latvian population is formed, who works, earns and pays taxes in Lithuania, because in Lithuania personal income tax amounts to 15 percent, which, in terms of tax, amounts to approximately 80 euros per 1000 euros salary. Moreover, in order to employ a person in Lithuania and pay taxes on the Lithuanian economy, our compatriots do not even have to leave their place of residence. They can continue to live in their family homes, use their local government services, shop in their usual shop, but at the same time work in a company in another country, receive wages and pay taxes in another country. The decision on the gradual reduction of personal income tax was adopted already in May 2012. All Members of the Saeima voted in favour of this decision at the time. Mr Sergeant even submitted a proposal to reduce this tax to 16 percent, which was not supported by the Saeima at the time, but supported a reduction in the personal income tax rate to 20 percent already this year - in 2015. Annotated by this draft law: "The aim of the labour tax reform would be to provide Estonia and Lithuania with labour taxes equivalent to those in competition for investment and jobs in the Baltic States. Reducing the overall tax burden on labour would also reduce the risks of poverty and structural unemployment, as well as the shadow economy and the incentive to avoid paying taxes." For the time being, these risks are no longer relevant in Latvia? Latvia's competitiveness among the Baltic States and the reduction of the shadow economy are no longer government priorities? More! In the current wording of the draft law, a combination of words such as "legal certainty" or "reduction of the shadow economy" or even the word "poor" is not used at all. Already two years ago, when preparing the 2014 state budget, the Saeima once failed entrepreneurs and departed from the norms adopted, both by increasing its own reduced tax rate from 20 to 22 percent, and by extending the period during which tax reduction should be made. With this draft law, which is under consideration today, the Saeima is going to deceive entrepreneurs once again, giving grounds for claiming that even promises recorded in the law have only the value of a county. More. As a lawyer, colleagues, you would warn that such a decision also creates a real basis for legal proceedings in the Constitutional Court, because without any arguments and justification in a hurry, two months before 1 January, the norms of the law are amended, on which every Latvian businessman had the right to rely. Legal certainty in the legal state is worthy of protection, and in this case no transitional period, which could even be considered to be proportionate at a distance, is even offered. The second case envisaged by the draft law under consideration is to narrow the range of persons for whom personal income tax relief can be applied. In other words, it could also be called the law on family punishment. In particular, the draft law provides for the punishment of families where one spouse works to earn a living for the whole family, while the other takes care of the step of the house, raising children and other common family matters. The explanatory memorandum to the bill indicates that, in such cases, the other spouse is likely to receive parental benefit or unemployment benefit. However, colleagues, I would like to remind you that the period of the cost of neither the parents' or the unemployed's allowance is not sufficient to raise the child until the age at which he has a place in the municipal kindergarten. On the other hand, support for parents who are forced to send children in private kindergartens for this reason is not yet clear. It is true that demographic indicators in Latvia tend to improve, and it is encouraging that there are families who choose to put a third or even a fourth child into the world. However, caring for such a family is like a full - time job in itself. Furthermore, employers do not expect many children to wait for them in their work interviews. The country has a duty to respect, value and support those of its own citizens who have chosen to put into the world, raise and train our future citizens, members of society and taxpayers. The possibility of obtaining relief for such a dependent person is the least that the State can do to achieve this. I therefore call for the vote to be taken against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U23	Thank you. The matter should therefore be decided by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 31, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budgetary and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Environmental Impact Assessment”, establishing that it is the Commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the LRA Group: Vote!) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Tax on Microbusinesses", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Solidarity Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Member Mārtiņš Bondars has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U24	Madam President, Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! I ended my last speech from this platform with a wish... ( Medications.) I ended my last speech from this troupe with the wish of Mrs Straujuma to change her thinking, because changing thinking would change her behaviour; changing her behaviour would change the result. The result of the bankruptcy of thinking, the underperformance, is the creation of the draft law on “the Solidarity Tax Law”. Colleagues! When I read in this bill the word " solidarity", I would like to see that it also has something to do with solidarity. The concept of solidarity has been important for the development of our society and people, because we regained our independence at the beginning of the 1990s, being joint and several; in the mid two thousand years, we joined the European Union and NATO. And now the government demands solidarity from us. But is there any solidarity without trust? And then ask yourself, quietly, if there is confidence in this government, which requires solidarity. ( Unity from the political group: “Yes! ” ; from the fraction DECLARES: “Who trusts?” ) Can there be trust in the government that thinks one, tells the other, but does the third? This government thinks what? This government thinks how to pay for those of its promises which have already expired. This government says that through this law we will reduce inequalities. Have you really seen many successful models when inequalities are reduced, someone is deprived of something and is not giving anyone anything? I'm not! And finally. The government is caught by the hand (from the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “Aaaa!” Substitution: ‘Where?’ ) by allowing taxes which do not respect the principle of solidarity between generations to be paid in their public limited liability company or public limited liability company. And you're still asking for another solidarity tax on top of it! And that tax has not been paid in this company so that politicians can be proud of their feathers, how successful they manage this company. Or worse, so that this company's management can pay high and high bonuses and high and high wages. ( From the drug depot. A.Barča: “Who is it?” ) The government in this situation has no moral right to raise taxes if it allows such a situation to occur in its own company. ( From the drug depot. A.Kaimiņš: “Tell me what it is about!” ) As I said, solidarity is not possible without trust. Inequality cannot be mitigated by being deprived of anything and not giving anyone, and righteousness can be found in injustice. Therefore, I call on you all of these government brothers not to look at the Saeima and vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U25	Mr Atis Lejiņš has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U26	Dear Bureau! Honourable Members! That's a little replica. When there was a crisis in Europe... Either, the economic crisis, the financial crisis (from the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Who caused it?” ), call it what you want, German wealthy entrepreneurs - and they have never suffered hunger or hunger - said to the government: “Well, well, we want to pay more taxes. Let us do this on a voluntary basis!” You know, and there was, there will be, and there will be, a progressive tax in Germany. But they thought they still had to pay, because they had two cars in the garage, there was a new house. ( From the hall: “The Buddy are the Germans! ” Noise, intermediates.) What, then, does a person need more? So that's my little replica. I think our entrepreneurs are going to get through this, because in fact, what do we now see? The fact that our corporate tax will be equal to Estonia and Lithuania. Finally, we have reached the level of tax in Estonia and Lithuania. Bravo! ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U27	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of transferring the draft law on Solidarity Tax to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 10, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) There is no objection by Members. Draft law... Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 55, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 54, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance” establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 76, not by - 11, refrain by - no. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2016, 2017 and 2018” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all commissions, stating that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2016, 2017 and 2018” to all commissions, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 30, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the State Budget for 2016” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all commissions, stating that the Commission is responsible for Budget and Finance (tax). Member Igor Pimenov has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U28	Dear Members and honourable Members, Fraction SĀKAŅA did not support the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2016, 2017 and 2018” and will not support the draft law “On the state budget for 2016. And not because it is in the opposition and it did not have the opportunity to participate in the budget. We do not support these draft laws because, like all the previous seven-year budgets, they are designed on the basis of the principles and rules of a false economic policy. Such a policy has created stagnation in absolutely all countries of the euro area. The national budgets of the euro area are being consolidated, credit ratings are rising, but financial markets are still not in a hurry to resume the stagnant lending of the European market. This is also mentioned in the study carried out by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, and Latvia is not an exception in this respect. A strict austerity policy is applied as the main tool for financial stabilisation. If money is taken out of the economy, then it is clear that there is no reason to expect growth. But it is even worse that the country no longer has the capacity to fulfil its constitutional obligations. It is precisely because of the austerity policy that the government's promises have not been fulfilled - the lines have not become shorter, the salaries of medical staff have not increased. The situation with medical staff is highly critical: they are now lacking in Riga, not only in the countryside, but in the Government Declaration expenditure on healthcare (as a percentage of gross domestic product) has not grown. On the contrary! In your draft budget, Mr President, they have fallen even further - from 3 per cent to 2.9 per cent, far from the 5 per cent recommended by the World Health Organisation. As a result, 14 percent of the population cannot afford health care in Latvia because of its cost. In Latvia, 30 percent of low-income people do not receive timely medical assistance compared to other EU Member States. Latvia is in the third place in terms of the number of suicides committed in the European Union per 100,000 inhabitants. It is your austerity, gentlemen, and it is the price of your success story! At the university we have been taught that taxation is a language in which the state communicates with the public. What does the state say to our entrepreneurs in this language? This language is a stupa: “Give money!” But there are no new tax mechanisms to stimulate the business initiative in the new draft budget. The tax reform is all the more necessary because it is the tax system that has introduced regression in the taxation of citizens' income and increases social inequality in Latvia, which is already one of the largest in the European Union. However, the differentiation between the solidarity tax and the unlimited minimum is a timid attempt to overcome this regression, a copy of a pale progressive tax. The need to introduce a progressive tax on any income of natural persons... not only wages but also capital income, including dividends and capital gains, have become so visible in society that it is supported by employers (but they do so with reservations). There is nothing in the draft budget! This budget could be suitable for the household, the city family, the farmer's seat, but the free market capitalist economy would not be enough. It's too weak! Therefore, it is even worse to fulfil the task set out in our Constitution, which describes Latvia as a socially responsible country. This budget is not able to solve the problems of our society. With this budget, these problems will become even more serious and therefore cannot be supported. The section "CONTROL" will vote against it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U29	Thank you. So Members have expressed their reservations, and we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the State Budget for 2016” to all commissions, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 32, it's not. The draft law has therefore been passed on to the commissions. Colleagues! I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Member Inguna Silverba has asked for the floor to report on the motives for voting. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U30	Honourable Members! The expression “money does not die” means today’s readiness to accept any money regardless of its origin (from the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “For example!” ), but at first the meaning of this expression was much more humiliating. In particular, Roman Emperor Vespasian Flavey with the words “money doesn’t die!” cut off his son Titus's objection to tax on public toilets. The ancient Roman creation of tax introduction was amazing, but they did not have a modern sense of tax policy. It was important to collect as much money as possible so that the emperor could have the money to finance his needs. For example, it allowed for the addition of new areas where new taxpayers lived, thereby further increasing revenues. Unfortunately, the 2016 State Budget project of Latvia is based on a similar principle: to collect money wherever possible, not to grant funding to anyone wherever possible. The law, however, requires a reduction in personal income tax by gradually starting to shift tax burdens from labour to consumption and capital?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's nothing! The law may be changed and personal income tax may not be reduced; moreover, it may also be reduced at times by the number of persons for whom the payer is entitled to apply relief for dependent persons. But not reducing labour taxes does not prevent an increase in excise duties. In the annex to the draft law these amendments to the law are cynically based on the recommendations of the European Commission on shifting the emphasis from taxation to labour to consumption. Aka, the State Probation Service is expected to participate in the correction of sentenced social behaviour by implementing the probation for all convicted people from January 1, 2016?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's nothing! This can be avoided once again by postponing the measure to 2019, when a new government is likely to be present. Oh, the European Union directive requires VAT to be applied to the management of houses?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's great! Then put all - 21 per cent - even though it is possible to apply also a reduced rate! And so on. Of course, such creativity does not allow us to talk about a long-term, stable and predictable budgetary policy. The Ministry of Finance has worked as a good accountant: it has to be set up, it has to be collected so, it is allowed to issue so, the figures match, and the work is completed. Defining objectives for the development of the country, to be achieved by means of the budget, was, of course, not the task of officials, but of politicians. However, the leading politicians have forgotten the objectives set in both the National Development Plan and the Government Declaration. Please say: “No, but there is a declared task of reducing inequalities, and this is what the government plans to do with a new, so-called solidarity tax.” However, the solidarity tax will not be used for social purposes, such as increasing pensions, but will be transferred to the general budget, where no further use of this money can be traced back. At the same time, another proposal - to apply a VAT rate of 21 per cent to the management of houses - will make this service more expensive, and the victims will not be the owners of private houses, but the population of multi-apartment houses, with a large proportion of the poor. Where is this a consistent policy to reduce inequalities? I think that there has been so much dissatisfied with the draft budget that has been drawn up for many years. The sectoral ministers also seem to be well aware of this. The minutes of the government sittings show that a number of ministers, when it comes to their sectors, have expressed their specific views and do not support the decisions taken. It is true that no one has gone further than a declaratory position, nor has he declared a demision. So to say, the bad decisions were made by others, I wanted to, but I couldn't be good. The Saeima must now strive to correct the government’s brothers. Will it work? If members of the coalition parties are able to recognise that cosmetic corrections will not be enough, then we can succeed. If it turns out that everything is fine, then in 2016 we will live with a budget that even ministers do not consider good. Thank you!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U31	Thank you. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Land Register Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Courts” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “The Law on Programme Management of the European Structural and Investment Funds Objective “European Territorial Cooperation” to be implemented within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Instrument” be transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Education’ be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission by the Member Debtor, Dambe, Dalder, Dzintara, Bite, Rībena and other drafts submitted, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Imants Produnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U32	Good morning, dear colleagues! Since ancient times, it has been stipulated that municipalities are obliged to provide every child from the age of one and a half years with a place in a pre-school institution, so that the mother or father of the child can return with a calm heart to work, knowing that his municipality will take good care of his child, and happy to pay taxes to this municipality. Since ancient times, there have also been municipalities - and they are now at least 15 - which do not properly fulfil this obligation. Since recent times, or from September 2013, the state came to the assistance of such municipalities, providing state support to those families whose children remained not quite on the street, but outside the municipal garden. In this way, the country has paid around EUR 20 million over two years and four months instead of the municipalities that, I say, have not been so successful in fulfilling their responsibilities. From 2013 till now, public co-financing was provided for children receiving private pre-school education, in the amount of 142 euros (not exceeding 220 euros in cooperation with the municipality) in Riga and Pierīga or 185 euros outside Riga region, in order to compensate for the expenses that parents incur when solving their problems instead of local governments. Despite this state support and the fact that 3800 new places have also been created in municipal kindergartens over four years, however, due to the regular increase in birth rates, there are still about 9 000 children outside municipal kindergartens, some of whom are attending private preschools, some are dealing with cotches and others are dealing with grandparents, relatives or friends. In Riga alone, there are about 5500 children in private pre-schools, but there is no pre-school space for 1200 children. The draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” presented by members of the Sub-Committee on Demographic Affairs and other colleagues, created in cooperation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, is a solution for ensuring future availability of kindergartens and will cover at least 9 000 children and their parents. Thus already in Section 17 of the Law, it is established that if a municipality does not provide a place in its kindergarten for a child from the age of one and a half years, then it is obliged to pay private pre-school educational institution services to the extent that is the average cost per person to be educated at the pre-school institutions of the respective municipality. However, the amendment includes three fundamental changes. First change. In order to ensure an objective, complete, transparent and uniform calculation of these average costs, the Cabinet of Ministers will determine in its rules not only the arrangements for covering such costs, but also the methodology to be applied by municipalities with the requirements for the expenditure to be included in it, as local authorities have different accounting systems and not all expenditure eligible for pre-school education has so far been allocated separately and included in the relevant costs, such as infrastructure costs; this could ensure co-financing at the current level. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has a duty not only to develop this methodology and these rules, but also to monitor their correct compliance. Second change. If a municipality cannot offer a place in its kindergarten, parents would have the option of choosing between a pre-school institution or a certified nurse or an individual educator, as pre-school education and childcare are inextricably linked areas where an integrated approach should be applied. And, as I said, there are situations where children have no place in any pre-school institution. The Cabinet of Ministers regulations however, it should be stipulated that when choosing the cord, the costs are reimbursed to a smaller extent. And the third. If the municipality does not provide a place for the child in its kindergarten and the child has started training at a private preschool educational institution, the support of the municipality is maintained even if later a place is offered in the municipal kindergarten where the child is registered for admission, but the parents have refused from the proposed place. After such refusal, the place in the municipal kindergarten is no longer preserved. Colleagues! In order to ensure that parents are confident about the continuation of the support programme as well as with January 1, 2016, and that local governments can prepare fully for the new regulation, when drafting the budget for the current year, it is necessary to adopt amendments as soon as possible, as the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have yet to be approved after the entry into force of the law. Therefore, on behalf of the applicants, I call on the draft law to be referred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science as the responsible commission and to determine the urgency of the draft law so that the draft law can be adopted at final reading before November 18, the national holiday. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U33	Thank you. Are Members against referrals to the Commission? ( From a political group, ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against - 15, abstaining. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” be submitted to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in the Privatised Apartment Houses” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Please turn on the microphone for Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U34	Dear colleagues, In view of the history of the creation of the draft law, as well as the fact that housing policy issues are subject to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, I call for the Commission of State Administration and Local Government to be responsible for this draft law and the Legal Commission to be co-responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U35	Thank you. Please call me! Let's vote on the bill... Colleagues, I'm sorry! The procedure, yeah? Please, turn on the microphone for the Waiter Burns!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U36	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I, in turn, invite you to stick to the request of the Presidium of the Saeima to hand over to the Legal Commission as the responsible commission and to the National Administration and Municipal Commission as the second commission. Consequently, we obviously have to vote on the first option first.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U37	So we must vote in favour of the proposal made by Mr Dolgopolov. So first of all, we will vote on the proposal that has been put forward, namely on the handing over to the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government as the commission responsible and the Legal Commission - as the co-responsible commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government of the draft law “Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses” establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law has been passed on to the commissions. On the reason for the vote, the name of the Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U38	Honourable Members! Members of the fraction “From the heart to Latvia” support the referral of the draft law “Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses” to commissions. Members of the “From the heart to Latvia” group believe that it is necessary for a long time to sort out the issue of the possibility of ending forced divided property legal relations between owners of apartment apartments and owners of land, using the right to purchase land belonging to the owner of land. Finally, after several years of working on the executive power of the regulatory framework for forced shared property, the draft law has been drafted. However, our Members, when they come to the draft law and assess the possible consequences of its application in practice, conclude that it has many shortcomings and outstanding issues. For example, the draft law drawn up by the executive does not address the following issues: In order for owners of apartments to benefit from their rights, the draft law provides that all owners of apartments must be registered... their property must be entered in the Land Register. Thus, if there is at least one apartment in a multi-storey dwelling, the ownership of which is not fixed in the land register, it will not be possible to exercise the right of redemption. The draft law proposed by the executive also does not fully solve the issue of financial possibilities for owners of apartments to buy land. Indicative calculations show that the cadastral value for the whole land could be up to €180 million, while the market value (depending on the situation) could reach € 240 million. This amount of money would be difficult for the country to find in the budget, and this could make it difficult for the country to implement many other reforms. It was pointed out by the Ministry of Justice. In turn, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law indicates that the average redemption price (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer.) , which should be paid, could be 1500 euros per apartment. It has been calculated how much each owner of the apartment will have to pay a month for the land to be bought out. The question arises: if a country cannot find such funds once, where can our citizens find them? The question remains where and from which sources these funds will be available to families and persons who have been granted the status of a poor or disadvantaged family or person. Has the Ministry of Justice compiled statistical data on how many of these apartment owners have been granted poor or low-income status or family status? What means will they be able to redeem the land? Will the 10-year delay in finding funds solve this problem? Members of the fraction “From the heart to Latvia” believe that it is necessary to address the issue, so that due to the adoption of this draft law, mass judicial proceedings on recovery of losses and recovery to apartment property should not begin after 10 years, as a result of which citizens should be thrown out of apartments. It must not be possible for one problem to be resolved as if it were a lavishly pulled up with another problem. Members of the “From the heart to Latvia” group rely on the fact that, by transferring the draft law “Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in the Privatised Apartment Houses” to the commissions, the application of the draft law in practice and the related problems will be analysed in depth, creating the most effective solution for adopting a fair legal framework, taking into account all the reservations and proposals expressed in the public space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U39	Thank you. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order’ presented by the Members of the Parliament be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let's vote... Mr. Viļuma, have you applied to talk about or against? ( From the drug depot. J. Viļums: Against! ) Thus, the Member Juris Viļums has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U40	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this proposal to consider amendments to the parliamentary roll of order will have to be considered. I just want to draw your attention to the fact that it has also been signed by Mr Cura, who I understand has yesterday and today's holiday.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U41	He really has signed, but that doesn't mean... He did it not yesterday or today. ( From the drug depot. J. Viļums: “It’s October 8th!” ) Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll” to the Legal Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 23, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau informs you that she has received an application from Member Solvita Āboltiņa requesting her to be granted unpaid leave from 5 October to 8 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Gunārs Kūtra requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 7 October to 8 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau received an application from Member Marjana Ivanova-Jevsevsev requesting her unpaid leave on 8 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The next item is the draft decision “On withdrawal of Kristīne Cinkus from the Central Land Commission of the Ministry of Agriculture from the composition of the Central Land Commission”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U42	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, based on the application of Kristīne Cinkus, asks the Saeima to withdraw the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture Kristīne Cinkus from the composition of the Central Land Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U43	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On withdrawal from the Central Land Commission of the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture Kristīne Cinkus”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Mr Valdis Pētersons, representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, as part of the Central Land Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U44	Dear colleagues, Having heard the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia to approve the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture Valdis Pētersons as part of the Central Land Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U45	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture of Valdis Pētersons as part of the Central Land Commission”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is Members' requests. Request of the Members Andreja Elksniņa, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Vladimira Nikonova, Vital Orlova, Jānis Urbanoviča, Sergeja Mirska, Sergeja Potapkina, Raimonds Rubika and Igora Zuvėvs, Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs “On the Situation of the Regional Hospital of Daugavpils”. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U46	Good morning, colleagues! The application of Members Elksniņa, Tutina, Ribakova and others, more specifically, the request to the Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs “On the situation in Daugavpils Regional Hospital” was discussed at the meeting of the Panel on 30 September, so there was a wide discussion. Representatives of the hospital participated, heads of Daugavpils municipality participated. The discussion was based on the responsibility of the state and municipality to deal with the health care situation. Guntis Belevičs responded. Overall, this discussion was, in my opinion, quite productive. Members then voted in favour of this particular request and it was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U47	Thank you. In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Andreja Elksniņa, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Vladimira Nikonova, Vital Orlova, Jānis Urbanoviča, Sergeja Mirska, Sergeja Potapkina, Raimonds Rubika and Igora Zuvėv, Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs “On the Situation in Daugavpils Regional Hospital”. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request has therefore been rejected. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U48	So, honourable colleagues, to your attention the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”. It is the second, final, reading, given that this draft law has been declared urgent. This draft law refers to the restoration of compensation for farmers for the pain caused by migratory birds. The commission responsible has received nine proposals. 1. - The proposal from Member Arthur Rubika. Some support has been given and included in the Commission’s proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U50	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U52	3. - Member Rubika's proposal. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U53	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U54	Good morning, colleagues! On the proposal for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats. Section 4 of the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats regulated the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. With my proposal, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers set minimum requirements for preventive measures for the owner or user of land, i.e. a farmer who would correspond to the risk of damage caused by protected animals and the farmer's material possibilities. Thanks to this proposal, Latvia will comply with the European Union guidelines on State aid in the agriculture and forestry sector and rural areas 2014-2020, Sections 1.2 and 1.5 (aid to compensate for damage caused to protected animals) and Article 392 recommendations and at the same time will not impose a disproportionate burden of compliance on its farmers, who already have to deal with obvious and invisible risks, additional costs, harvest losses and a whole range of administrative procedures to receive any compensation for losses. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U55	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U56	So, honourable colleagues, this is not about whether, let us say, the farmer will or will not receive it. He will receive the compensation absolutely! And there was no doubt to the commission responsible that the Ministry of Agriculture would develop this procedure for determining the extent of the damage to the land user. And there will also be a whole series of measures that the farmer must take to mitigate, say, these risks of damage. And so we thought that this was to a certain extent a coercion, because the combination of words 'prevention requirements proportionate to the risk of damage caused to protected animals', which is mentioned in this proposal by Mr Rubika, did not seem to be profoundly understandable. We have no doubt that these arrangements will really be proportionate to the risks. And so we are calling for this proposal not to be supported and for it to be left in the same way as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Arthur Rubika's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 35, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U58	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U60	5. - Member Edgars Putra's proposal. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U61	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U62	6. - a very similar proposal from Member Rubika. This is also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U63	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Rubika's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 44, for - 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U64	7th, on the other hand. - Mr Rubika's proposal - is partly supported and included in the proposal drawn up by the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U65	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U66	Therefore, please support 8. - a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U68	And finally 9. - Member Rubika's proposal. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U69	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U70	So I ask you to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law at second, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on the law on disciplinary liability of judges, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U72	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would remind you that the said draft law is related to the reform of the Supreme Court, which is already enshrined in the law “On Judicial Power”. In order to fully hold the conference of judges and take decisions regarding the composition of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee, these amendments to the law were developed and supported. I would remind you that the draft law was declared urgent. The Commission has not received any proposal. I therefore call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at final reading has been supported. The next item is the draft law amending the law on taxes and duties, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U74	Dear colleagues, The Commission has not received proposals for a third reading of the draft law. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U75	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. ( Interface from the Hall: “It’s time for a break! ” ) I hear the proposal that it is time for a break. Okay. Colleagues! We have to register before the break. Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the Member Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U76	Colleagues! The break is a good thing, but I remind you that the Legal Commission is meeting in five minutes' time in the premises of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U77	Thank you. Name to Inese Lībiņš-Egnerei, member of the Speaker of the Saeima, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U78	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Solvita Āboltiņa ( From the hall A.Kaimiņš: “Solvita Āboltiņa is on vacation!” ), Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Jānis Kžads, Maris Kučinskis, Gunārs Kūtris, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Romualds Ražuks, Inguna Silverba and Silvija Šifa. I don't see any of them in the hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U79	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U80	Colleagues! I call for seats to be held in the Chamber. Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting! Mr. Vectyran, Mr. Chersh, be so kind! On the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U81	Yes, hello, colleagues! See amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers, third reading. Two proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U83	And the second proposal is also the proposal of the Minister of Finance Mr. John Reiras. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U85	We have therefore examined all the proposals. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, against and refrains. The draft law at third reading has been supported. So the law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the law on private pension funds, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U87	Yes, colleagues, we look at the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds”, third reading. One proposal has been received from the committee responsible - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission - and has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U89	So we have examined all the proposals. Please support the draft law in third, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U90	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at third reading has been supported. So the law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the declaration of residence, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Ainārs Mežulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U91	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission has not received any proposals for the third, final, reading, so please vote and adopt the draft law at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U92	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. So the law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Municipalities, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Maris Kučinskis. ( Interference from the drug.) So, Mr Dolgopolov will report.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U93	Dear colleagues, We are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities” at third reading. I would remind you that the draft law provides for two innovations. The first innovation is the possibility to hold meetings of the council and committee in the mode of videoconferencing. On the other hand, there is a common procedure for publishing binding rules adopted by the councils. Six proposals have been submitted to the third reading. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U95	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U97	3 - Proposal by the Legal Office. The proposal 4 drawn up by the Commission has been partly supported and incorporated.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U98	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U99	Proposal No 4. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U101	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U103	6. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U105	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U106	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Local Government”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. So the law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Cooperative Society, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U107	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society” (document No 1246). I informed you that no proposal had been submitted for the third reading of the draft law in accordance with the procedure laid down by the parliamentary order roll. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U108	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on Cooperative Society Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at third reading has been supported. The next item is the draft law amending the Youth Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Lolita Čigāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U109	Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law "Amendments to the Youth Act". The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs received this draft law and examined it. This draft law is designed to bring it into line with the just adopted Voluntary Labour Law, for which I thank Mrs Barča and Mr Cilinski, who worked hard on this draft law. And accordingly, changes are also needed in the Youth Act. The Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission has decided to support this draft law at first reading, and I ask the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U110	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Youth Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U111	The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs will wait until October 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U112	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 15 October of this year. The next item is the draft law amending the law on social security, first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U113	Colleagues! The first reading is requested to adopt the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Social Security". The draft law provides for legalization of the information system of the Ministry of Welfare, which is a technical co-ordination instrument between various information systems of the Ministry of Welfare, as well as a tool for cooperation with information systems of other ministries. It has been developed to an amount of more than 3.5 million in the framework of the project of the European Union, the trial of it has been completed, and without this law there is no legal right to use this information system. Please adopt the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U114	First of all, the commission asks for it to be declared urgent. We must therefore vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U115	Deadline for the submission of proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U116	And the Commission, as I understand it, is also asking for support to be given to the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U117	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading: 23 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U118	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U119	Review in second, final reading - 30 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U120	October 29th?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U121	Yes, October 29th. That's right!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U122	Mrs. Barch, is that 29 October? Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 23 October and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 29 October. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the law on taxes and duties, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U123	Dear colleagues, I am not allowed by the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) to say the same thing as Mrs Barch Schic... The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees”. One proposal was put forward for the second reading. It was submitted by Andrejs Panteļejevs, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, and the proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U124	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U125	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U126	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U127	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission considers that a reasonable deadline for the submission of proposals is 13 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U128	Thank you. The proposals are therefore expected by 13 October this year (including 13 October). The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax", second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U129	Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”. The Commission has received two proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U131	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U133	We have examined all the proposals. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U134	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U135	The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U136	Thank you. The proposals are therefore expected by 13 October this year (including 13 October). The next item is the draft law on civil protection and disaster management, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U137	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The law on civil protection and disaster management, existing, has been in force since 1 January 2007. During the application of the law, several problems have been identified in the civil protection system, in the interpretation of the competences of the entities of the civil protection system, in civil protection planning, in the definition of disaster, in management and management of resources. Certain norms of the law can be misinterpreted, and this hinders a common understanding of institutions about civil protection and application of the law. The aim of the draft law is to establish the legal and organisational principles of civil protection system operation and disaster management in order to ensure the safety and protection of people, the environment, infrastructure and property as well as to determine the competences of civil protection systems and disaster management entities as far as possible. The draft law provides for clarification of the definition of civil protection and for the principles of the functioning of the civil protection system, its main tasks and its management. The draft law defines the concept of disaster and defines the nature and extent of the disaster. The draft law sets out new basic principles for disaster management and the authorities responsible for disaster management management. The draft law defines the competences of civil protection entities. The draft law regulates precisely the principles of civil protection planning and types of planning documents, as well as determines those responsible for civil protection planning. The draft law includes provisions governing the operation of the civil protection system, the verification of liability and liability for violations of civil protection requirements. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U138	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on civil protection and disaster management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U139	For the second reading, the proposals should be submitted by 15 January 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U140	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 15 January 2016. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Sworn Auditors, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U141	Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to law “On Sworn Auditors””. The Commission has received six proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U143	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U145	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U147	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U149	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U151	And six. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U153	I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U154	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Sworn Auditors”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U155	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U156	Thank you. Proposals are due by 15 October of this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U157	Dear colleagues, The Commission has received three proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U158	Let's start... Mr. Schitz, are we starting a debate? Mr Schic, are you in the debate on the first proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U159	Can we go on?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U160	Mr Schitz has not applied for a debate on the first proposal. So Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U161	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U163	And 3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U165	I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U166	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law has therefore been approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U167	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U168	October 15th?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U169	October 15, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U170	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 15 October of this year. Colleagues! The Saeima Bureau has received a letter from the Legal Commission requesting that the agenda for the meeting of 8 October be amended and that it include a first-reading examination of the draft law on Amendments to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for an amendment to the agenda of the Saeima sitting, including a first-reading discussion of the draft law on Amendments to the parliamentary order roll! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 49, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item is the draft law on communications by commercial companies involved in the mining industry or primary forest development of payments to administrations, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U171	Dear colleagues, The Commission has received 17 proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U173	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U175	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U177	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U179	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U181	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U183	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U185	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U187	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U189	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U191	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U192	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U193	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U195	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U197	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U199	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U201	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U203	And that's it. 17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U205	I therefore call on the draft law to be supported at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U206	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law on the notification of payments to public authorities by commercial companies involved in the mining industry or the development of primary forests! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U207	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U208	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 15 October of this year. The next item on the agenda is the draft law amending the Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin. ( From the hall: “Go! ” Depp. A.Judins has entered into talks with his colleagues and has not heard an invitation.) No rapporteur. Consequently, the draft law should be moved to the end of the sitting. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Application of the Land, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Aivars Meija.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U209	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Application of the Land”. The commission responsible has received five proposals from the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U210	Members ask for a vote... Are Members asking for a vote? So no. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U211	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U212	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U213	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U214	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U215	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U216	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 20, abstaining. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U217	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U218	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U219	So we have examined all the proposals and I call on the Commission to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U220	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Application of Land”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against -17, refraining from -1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U221	The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U222	Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 October of this year. On the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U223	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U224	Mr Orlova, before we start examining the proposals, I would like to inform you that Member Imants Debtor has referred to proposals 14, 15 and 23. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U225	Yeah. Colleagues, 24 proposals have been tabled for second reading. Three have already been withdrawn. And I want to tell you that we took this draft law from the previous Saeima - from the 11th Saeima, and questions... Certain issues which the Commission considered to be complex also need to be addressed by the sub-committee on Public Health to which they were referred and then referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission with the opinion of the sub-committee on Public Health. Let's move on to the proposals. The proposal presented by the Members of the Saeima Inga Bite, Imants Krādnieks and Guntis Belēvičs is partly supported and included in the proposal 2. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U226	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U227	Dear colleagues, Although the proposal has been partly supported and included in proposal 2, I would like to say that its objective, purpose and nature have not been achieved and are not achieved by this proposal 2. And so I'll explain why. The proposal provides for the possibility for a woman to be consulted by a lawyer, social worker, psychologist, family doctor and similar specialist prior to taking a decision on abortion. The list of experts included in the proposal is not closed. And it is not concluded deliberately - so that a woman can choose the specialist whose consultation is most necessary at the moment, is the most important and most appropriate. In 2012 and 2013 a study “Undesirable pregnancy and contraception in Latvia” was carried out. Women who had applied to a medical institution for abortion at their own request were selected as a study group. The study was carried out in 40 medical institutions across Latvia. The study asked, inter alia, women: ‘Is there anything that could change your decision to stop a pregnancy?’ In the negative, less than half - 43 percent of women - have answered this question, which means that a majority of 57 percent of women - admitted that their decision on abortion could have been changed. This means that more than 2.5,000 children could have been born within one year if these circumstances had taken place that could have helped a woman to change her opinion. A further breakdown of the study's responses indicates who could have changed this decision. 25 percent of women respond that it would have been a partner, 7 percent - parents or relatives, 29 percent say it could have been financial assistance, 25 percent say it could have been social guarantees, and 6 percent responded otherwise. Of course, support systems for families and parents can always be improved, but I would like to say that such systems exist and work in Latvia. At the same time, it must be recognised that existing support mechanisms are rather complex and that persons who are not involved in these issues on a daily basis are rather difficult to understand. Would each Member be able to answer today and immediately what support should be given to the mother to whom the child is born? I don't think everyone. I am therefore convinced that if women were to be consulted on what support they deserve before deciding on abortion, for example in the case of pregnancy, maternity, childcare, at least some of those who have indicated that their decision could have been replaced by financial or social assistance, they would indeed have changed their decision. There are cases where the abortion decision could have been influenced by the partner. These cases are, of course, different, but one of these situations undoubtedly involves a partner’s refusal to take care of the child. In such a case, a woman would value advice before taking a decision, which could explain to her the nuances of her paternity and maintenance obligations. Consultation by a lawyer could also be useful if a woman is concerned about the possible loss of a job due to pregnancy or the birth of a child. On the other hand, a psychologist could help to solve non-legal family issues by allowing members of one family to look at the situation with their eyes and help to find internal resources to solve the situation. The Commission has proposed an alternative proposal, which provides that a woman's advice can only be given by a doctor - a psychotherapist, a gynecologist or a family doctor before a decision is taken. As I said, such a proposal did not achieve its objective. The work description of psychotherapy.lv on the site says: “In contrast to a psychologist and a psychiatrist, vocational education prepares for close and often long-term cooperation with a client. Psychotherapy is professionally prepared to help people to understand their personality and relationships with other people in a therapeutic relationship with each individual client, to be clear about their goals and real needs.” In particular, the consultation of the psychotherapist is not a one-off consultation as foreseen in Box 2. Similar consultations are already being offered in other countries. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this proposal does not involve mandatory consultation. There have been reservations both in the media and in the discussions. This proposal does not make it compulsory! It only implies that advice should be provided if a woman has chosen it herself, and with her chosen specialist. Thank you. I ask you to support the first motion in the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U228	Thank you. That concludes the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U229	Yeah. Dear colleagues, Well, first of all, you all know that there is no law on Psychologists. The proposed version mentions a familyrapist, and it is not understandable what it is about... Therefore, please support 2. - a proposal from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U230	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Inga Betes, Imants Debtor and Gunta Belevičs's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 7, for - 32. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U231	Okay. Please support 2. - a proposal from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U233	Proposal No 3 tabled by Members of the Saeima Inga Bite and Imants Debtor has not been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U234	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U235	Nor has the proposal tabled by Members Inga Bite and Imants Producer been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U236	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U237	Dear colleagues, This proposal concerns completely different situations, areas and groups of society. This proposal concerns expenditure on maternity aid. The second part of Section 4 of the current law states that the State provides free maternity assistance. The Cabinet Regulations allow the woman to choose the place where the woman wants to give birth. It can be a medical institution, it can be a special delivery practice, it can also be home. However, Article 4 of the law, which provides for free maternity assistance, does not exist when a woman chooses to give birth at home. This issue has also been considered by the Constitutional Court, but I will be honest and acknowledge that the Constitutional Court recognised that this is not a legal issue, but this is a politically feasible issue, and that is why the arguments to which I refer are related to support for women - with the obligation for the state to provide this support even if a woman has chosen to give birth at home. The proposal provides that in such a case, the amount of money that the state would anyway spend on childbirth in a medical institution - and only that amount! - Follow the woman to the place where she chose to give birth. That is, the difference - and outside of medical institutions, this maternity aid is always more expensive! - should still be covered by the woman, so the parents themselves. According to World Health Organisation standards, a woman should be born in a place where she feels safe, where the best care can be provided and where safe necessary care is available. For women at low risk of pregnancy, this may happen at home, in a small maternity home in a medical institution or in a city maternity home. On 14 December 2010, the European Court of Human Rights concluded in Ternovskis v Hungary that there was no evidence in medical science that, from a statistical point of view, the birth rate represented a significantly higher risk than that of a hospital. This judgment recognises the right to give birth at home as an integral part of the right to privacy and, in the particular case against Hungary, a violation of that right was also found. Dear colleagues, Please support this proposal 4 and please provide that the support provided to a woman in the event of her birth follows her to the place where she has chosen to have her births in accordance with the rules and procedures permitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U238	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U239	Yeah. Dear colleagues, This proposal was not supported because representatives of the Ministry of Health told us that in order to pay extra-stationary maternity specialists, they need to know what they are doing and how much they have to pay for it. Unfortunately, you can't sit down at one table... There were no extra-hospital delivery specialists. Thus, the Ministry of Health cannot understand how much and for what. Therefore, please do not support proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U240	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the motion tabled by Members Inga Bite and Imants Debtor! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 23, for - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U241	Nor has the proposal made by the Members of the Saeima, Inga Bite and Imants Debtor, not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U242	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U243	The 6th proposal submitted by Inga Bite, Imants Krādnieks and Guntis Belēvičs has also not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U244	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U245	The 7th proposal submitted by the Minister of Health Guntis Belevičs is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U246	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U247	Colleagues! I ask you not to support this proposal because, unfortunately, it is based on pseudo-scientific assumptions, namely concerns that are significant in themselves. And this is what Mrs. Matule, the respected head of the Latvian Gynecology Association, said at the meeting of the Commission that the donation of eggs to women in the future may affect their fertility, but as Mrs. Matules herself acknowledged, research is what medically understands with research, namely longitudinal research, where you track the life course of a donor and the effects that this procedure has left on her fertility in the future... such studies are not only in Latvia, but not elsewhere in the world. And discussions about what effect egg donation can have on a woman - it's an open question. What has been agreed by experts? There is no direct relationship between the future fertility of a woman and whether or not she is a donor. What do we do with such a legislative initiative? We're in principle violating a woman's right to her body because... Just because Mr Belevičs thinks that he can interfere with a woman's right to self-determination on her body with his mandate as Minister of Health. Unfortunately, these arguments are not sufficient. Consequently, I also call for consideration to be given to the situation that a woman has the free will to decide whether or not to put a child into the world, and there are women who voluntarily decide not to give birth. And then, please, what rights do these glowing men's representatives (here from my left) assume to ban the right of a woman who does not want to lay a child in the world, but wants to help his family perhaps get to the child's artificial fertilization? What rights do we decide instead of this woman? I would ask you not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U248	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U249	Yeah. Dear colleagues, In the debate on this proposal, it is the gynecologists... When discussing this proposal, the representatives of the Ministry of Health, gynecologists, who had been rejected, agreed that we could correct the current version, which is in force, by adding the fact that this woman should have given birth to a woman. So please support the 7th proposal of the Minister for Health Guntis Belevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U250	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal submitted by Health Minister Gunta Belevič! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 44, for - 14, for - 11. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U251	Dear colleagues, proposal 8 tabled by the Members of the Saeima Inga Bite, Imants Krādnieks and Guntis Belēvičs is partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U252	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U253	The previous proposal has been improved and submitted on behalf of the Social and Labour Commission number 9. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U255	The 10th motion tabled by Members of the Saeima Inga Bite, Imants debtor and Guntis Belēvičs is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U256	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U257	Nor has the 11th motion submitted by the Members of the Saeima Inga Bite, Imants Debtor and Guntis Belēvičs been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U258	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U259	Proposal 12 submitted by the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U260	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U261	Proposal 13 has not been supported. It was submitted by Members of the Saeima Inga Bite, Imants Debtor and Guntis Belēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U262	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U263	Proposal 14 has been withdrawn. Proposal 15 has been withdrawn. Also, the 16th motion tabled by the Members of the Saeima Inga Bite, Imants Debtor and Guntis Belēvičs has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U264	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U265	Nor has the 17th motion submitted by the Members of the Saeima Inga Bite, Imants Debtor and Guntis Belēvičs been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U266	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U267	Also, the 18th motion tabled by the Members of the Saeima Inga Bite and Imants Debtor was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U268	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U269	The 19th motion submitted by the Members of the Saeima Inga Bite, Imants Debtor and Guntis Belēvičs is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U270	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U271	The 20th motion tabled by Members of the Saeima Inga Bite, Imants debtor and Guntis Belevičs is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U272	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U273	Nor has the 21st motion submitted by the Members of the Saeima Inga Bite and Imants debtor been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U274	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U275	Dear colleagues, I would ask for your attention once more on the third proposal, which is not related to the previous two areas. This proposal provides for the possibility for parents whose children were born dead to say goodbye to this child in a manner worthy of human dignity. Currently, according to legislation, children born up to 22 weeks of pregnancy and weighing less than 500 grams are actually not... is not considered to be something worthy of farewell or grieving. In practice, however, almost 15 percent of parents face such situations, and only they are those who can decide whether and how they want to do so. I have to say now that these kids are coming... It's gone without a foot. I could tell you here from where they come from, but my tongue doesn't listen to it. However, the planned and desirable loss of a child, regardless of the time of termination of pregnancy or the reasons for it, is an important emotional blow for parents and can affect both their mental and emotional health. Health, on the other hand, is not only physical but also spiritual. We are divided, we often ignore the pain of our fellow humans. We often say there's nothing to survive, there's nothing to say, there's nothing to say, there's nothing to say, there's nothing to say, there's nothing to say, there's nothing to say, there's nothing to say, there's nothing to say. But this does not change their inner feelings! It only changes the fact that they can't share them, can't disclose them and can't actually get rid of them either. Current experience at Paula Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital shows that parents are very important in respect of their expected but unexpected child's remains, both immediately after the sad event and for a period of time. More information at the moment can be viewed at dusseludarzs.lv. In the world too, it is a practice that regardless of the week of pregnancy, parents can, if they want to, receive and bury their children. This practice exists in Ireland, England, Germany, as well as in the United States. Similarly, in Finland, for example, regardless of the week of pregnancy, parents are informed of where their child is buried and have the opportunity to act in harmony with their heart and their wishes. Such a proposal, which I have tabled... which we have submitted with colleagues is also in line with Regulation (EC) No 328/2011 of the European Commission, where the still-born child is defined as the death of the foetus before the full rejection or removal of the foetus, regardless of the duration of the pregnancy. Therefore, colleagues are asked to support this proposal and to provide that only parents are to say whether or not they want to bury their dead children. And it is not related to weeks, not to grams, but to people's needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U276	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U277	Dear colleagues, This is one of the proposals that the votes cast, but the majority rejected this proposal in the committee. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) . Depp. A.Judins: “Why refused?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U278	So the rapporteur does not submit further reports. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - Inga Betes and Imants Debtor's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 5, for - 25. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U279	Proposal No 22 submitted by Inga Bite, Member of the Saeima, Imants Debtor and Guntis Belevičs. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U280	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U281	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - are withdrawn. 24. a proposal submitted by Members of the Saeima Inga Bite and Imants Debtor. Neither did they receive any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U282	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U283	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U284	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U285	Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading: 30 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U286	Thirty?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U288	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 30 October of this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics. Colleagues! The Council of the Saeima informs you that you have received a request from ten Members of the Saeima, signed by Members of the Smilten, Šadurskis, Chigani, Kalniņš, Viņķele, Spolitis and others, to declare the draft law urgent. Member Mārtiņš Šics is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U289	The draft law provides for amendments to the law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. This is linked to the European directive adopted in 2013, which should be implemented in Latvia by 31 December of this year. The preparation of this draft law has been delayed, and penalties may be imposed after 1 January, so there is a request to support Members' request for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U290	So first of all, we are voting on urgency. Please call me! Let's vote on the bill... Would you like to talk about urgency, Mr. Smilten? Yeah, it's a matter of urgency. Please, Mr. Smilten!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U291	Hello, colleagues! Mrs Barch asked me yesterday for a little more reasoning... to give me more arguments about why there is a need for urgency. Colleagues! Amendments to the law provide for delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to issue three new regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And amendments are necessary in more than 20 regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And so the directive will only be fully implemented when not only the amendments to this law, which we are talking about, are adopted, but also these new regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The work is very large and, in order to be able to do so in good time and not to give us an opportunity to start infringement proceedings, I ask the Commission, on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Science, to look at this matter as a matter of urgency and I ask you to vote on it at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U292	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - no, for - 20. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U293	Please set the tabling of the proposals... ( Medications. Depp. A.Barča: “First reading!” ) Yes. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U294	We will support it with joint efforts. Okay. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U295	Time for the second reading - 23 October this year, and consideration at the Saeima sitting - 5 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U296	Thank you. Consequently, the proposals should be submitted by 23 October of this year and the consideration should be submitted to the Saeima at its meeting on 5 November. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U297	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The Legal Commission of the Saeima examined the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll”. The essence of these amendments is to reform, reorganise the work of the administration of the Saeima so that we can be understood by those parliaments who may so far ask the question which is the Registry of the Saeima, because the Secretary-General is dealing with it in all the parliaments, no matter how strange it would be to our ears, knowing that this word has a bit of historical harmony. But these are absolutely non-political amendments with the idea of making our work really more understandable to everyone and improving the organisation of our work. An important amendment is also the fact that the working relations of the head of the Saeima administration with the Saeima are foreseen as time-limits in the future and will end one year after the first day of the new Saeima (From the December of the Hall. A.Kamiņš: “You need life! For life!’ ), which shows that it is therefore possible for the Saeima, the Saeima, to assess whether this cooperation is successful and either to extend it or to terminate it by finding perhaps another - more appropriate - candidate for this post accordingly. The Legal Commission supported the draft law at first reading and asked for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U298	Thank you. The urgency has been applied for to speak... The urgency? No, no. So please call! Let's vote for... For the urgency, Mr Dolgopolov? Please! Are you going to talk about or against? Mr Dolgopolov, please! ( From the hall: “Simple talk! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U299	Dear colleagues, Talking about urgency. Many Mr President very well remembers that, a certain time ago, when I had the honour of chairing the Committee on Mandate, Ethics and Application, by decision of the Commission, we proposed the creation of a visitors' reception centre in the Saeima administration, in the Saeima Registry. The idea is good, the idea is simple. To realise this idea, a working group was set up under the leadership of Karina Pētersone, member of the Saeima Chairman, who worked for about a year. After that, this department appeared, without changing neither the roll of order nor any other law. Today, we are urgently reorganising the Parliamentary Chancery, not even knowing whether it is a political figure or not. ( From the medicine, ‘ Yes! ’ ) Because when it comes to the expiry of the term of office one year after the reelection of the Saeima, it means that political responsibility lies with the new composition of political parties. Why is it urgent to deal with this matter? Are we at risk here with the European Union's sanctions for being, here, a piece of salt that has appeared later than today? Shouldn't we... prepare, in a timely manner and without urgency, such elementary cases as amendments to the conflict of interest law and other laws providing for the inclusion of the relevant rank officials here? I would call for this draft law not to be given urgency. ( From the drug depot. J. Violums: “That’s right! Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U300	So the Member has spoken about urgency. Please call me! We will vote in favour of recognising the urgent nature of the draft law on amendments to the parliamentary roll of order! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 30, for - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U301	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U302	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U303	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to say a few words about the procedure. I believe - and also the majority of those present - that Members of the Saeima must be given early access to all draft laws, including - and in particular! - with the amendments tabled today in the parliamentary roll of order. This opportunity was not provided to us. Moreover, in my view, questions of this type must be discussed by the Fraction Council and not just in a narrow circle within the Bureau. And neither did it! Now, by the nature of the matter... In our view, this draft law is simply an act and an attempt to provide a “place under the sun” to a person. And according to the Constitution of politics in Parliament... politics in Parliament is more or less, better or worse done by 100 people who have a mandate from the people rather than 101. I therefore ask that we stick to the current order and call for a vote against this 'deepness'.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U304	Thank you. That concludes the debate. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U305	Colleagues! The Legal Commission has supported this draft law and I call on you to support it at first reading as well. ( From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “What is in interest?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U306	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first-reading vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Parliamentary Rule of Procedure. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 46, for - 30, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U307	The Commission will wait for your proposals by 17.00 on 12 October and the Commission will propose to discuss this draft law at the meeting of the Saeima on 15 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U308	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 12 October (including 12 October). And the session of the Saeima on 15 October this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the 12th Saeima Member Gunta Belevičs to administrative responsibility. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U309	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima has examined the application of the State Revenue Service with a request to consent to the 12th Saeima Member Gunta Belēvičs to administrative liability under Article 166.27 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code for the submission of false information in the declaration of the current state official for 2014, without specifying the loan granted in the amount of EUR 1 million. The Commission decided to support Mr Gunta Belevičs, Member of the 12th Saeima, administratively responsible for the infringement indicated in the administrative protocol. Please support the draft decision of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U310	Member Guntis Belevičs applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U311	Dear colleagues, I have learned a good lesson, and I have come to two truths. There is no procedure in our country that can be corrected after publication... that a declaration from an official may be made after publication. ( From the drug’s intermediates.) My second point: perhaps it should be allowed, in certain cases, to Members who recognise their fault, to adopt a penalty and to settle this matter without involving Parliament. I am sorry to my fellow Members, you Members of the Latvian Parliament, for having to deal with this issue and sincerely ask me to extradite me to administrative punishment.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U312	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “For consent to the 12th Saeima Member Gunta Belevičs to administrative liability”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision “On consent of the 12th Saeima Member Solvita Āboltiņa to administrative responsibility”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U313	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima has examined the application of the State Police Police Police Police Administration Traffic Safety Administration with a request to agree to the appeal of the 12th Saeima Member Solvita Āboltiņa to administrative responsibility according to the second paragraph of Section 149.6 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code - for not giving the road to drivers who prefer. Solvita Āboltiņa, in violation of the Road Traffic Rules (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) Points 70 and 81 did not road a vehicle which, without changing its direction, was driving side by side when changing from the left-hand lane to the right-hand lane. The Commission decided to support the administrative liability of the 12th Saeima Member Solvita Āboltiņa for the infringement indicated in the administrative protocol. Please support the draft decision of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U314	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “For consent to the 12th Saeima Member Solvita Āboltiņa to administrative responsibility”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. Agenda item "Provision of draft laws". Draft law on the amendment to the Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U315	Dear colleagues, We are working on draft law No.351 - Amendments to the Criminal Law. The draft law was drafted by Members, and the draft law provides for amendment of Section 285 of the Criminal Law, which provides for responsibility for the unlawful transfer of a person across the state border, and Section 285.1 - for provision of an opportunity to illegally stay in the Republic of Latvia. In the Legal Commission, the issues have been debated and there is no doubt that it is very important for Members to respond to the violations in question. At the same time, we have found that there is a need to improve the relevant draft laws - we will definitely do this for the second reading! - but the Legal Commission supported the draft law. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U316	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U317	Yes, colleagues, we have talked very much about refugees in these autumn months, and we have already talked about refugees in summer. We are currently waiting (or perhaps some are not waiting) for these 500 refugees from the Mediterranean. But in fact, if we look at the reality, there is a much more serious thing: perhaps even more refugees will soon have crossed our eastern border from Russia. And that is why, in my opinion, there is an inconceivable situation that these organised crime agents who help these processes get penalties that are not, in my view, adequate. And that is why we need to strengthen this border, and that is why, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, we need to make these penalties more severe and so send out clear messages to those who help these Vietnamese or Afghan citizens to break our border that they will sit in prison. And why? Because it is also a matter of our national security! I know that the draft law has no urgency, but the Border Guard also stressed the need to speed up the examination of the draft law by the Commission. I know that there are a couple of nuances that should be corrected, but the request is really easy to work in the Commission and here, colleagues, to support this initiative and strengthen the state borders of Latvia. Thank you. ( From the drug depot. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ; dep. M.Bondars: “What does NA think?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U318	Thank you. I closed the debate. ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “Jēbaldo!” ) The Commission therefore calls for support to be given to the draft law at first reading. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U319	Proposals are expected by 22 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U320	Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 October of this year. On the agenda the draft law ‘Amendments to the Criminal Law’, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U321	Draft law No 187 is under consideration at second reading. 29 proposals have been received. The first three proposals made by Minister for Justice Rasnačs concern the imposition of a fine, namely an increase in the fine. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which provides that in the future the maximum penalty for criminal offences will be up to three minimum monthly salaries. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U323	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which intends to increase the fine... possible fine for serious crime up to 500 minimum monthly salaries. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U325	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It also provides for the possibility of applying a higher fine for serious crimes that can be sentenced to imprisonment for a period of more than five years. Currently, the maximum penalty is 400 minimum monthly salaries and it is proposed to set this at 3 thousand minimum monthly salaries. In the Legal Commission, we discussed the amounts involved, which are large, but I would also like to draw attention to... I can leave it, of course, to the Commission that there is now, for example, one regulation - not a directive, but a regulation! - which provides for a fine of EUR 5 million for administrative irregularities. Consequently, the proposals that we are now discussing have been put forward. Well, although perhaps it really seems that there is a very large increase, they are supported. The Ministry of Justice, in support of these proposals, also pointed to the need to implement the recommendations related to accession to the OECD. And the problem is that Latvia's penalties, fines, individual crimes are very small. There is, of course, a problem that we can amend criminal law, but that does not at all guarantee that large penalties will be applied in practice. So the proposal 3 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U327	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to amend the second paragraph of Article 62. The question relates to the limitation of the execution of a conviction and is to be supplemented by a new sentence stating that the question of whether or not the sentenced person has avoided the execution of a sentence is to be decided by the court. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U329	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to amend Article 70.6. The proposal has editorial content and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U331	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice to amend Article 70.6. The previous proposals involved fines, but this is about recovery. It is not a penalty, but it is an instrument that applies not to natural persons but to legal persons. But the idea of substance is similar - to increase the possible fine... I'm sorry, amount of money recovery. That is, according to the proposals... Well, it provides for a first differentiation of their size according to the nature of the offence, but for particularly serious crimes, a minimum monthly salary of 100 000. So that's a pretty impressive sum. You can count... So 36 million probably... has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U333	Proposal No 7 provides for an addition to Article 70.8 This is the answer to the problem found in practice. We have cases where legal persons are subject to compulsory measures (in addition, in the case of several infringements, individual measures are applied for each infringement), but there are no legal provisions defining the instruments in question to count or replace the funds. Thus, proposals have been developed, which are, in substance, analogous to those provided for in Articles 50 and 51 of the Criminal Law, but are applicable to legal persons. Proposal 7 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U335	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice to amend Article 138. That is something that we have discussed a lot. Article 138 provides for liability for inadequate performance of the professional duties of a medical professional. And if such an act has been carried out obliviously... due to the negligence of the faulter, the consequences come - there is a sense of responsibility. The Minister of Justice proposed to exclude the words ‘due to negligence of the guilty person’, which can be understood as meaning that, in principle, its action was intentional, because in principle there were also proposals to make this infringement deliberate. Despite the fact that there is no intention, it does not matter: it is deliberate. We discussed a lot and the Commission decided not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U336	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U337	9. - The Legal Commission's proposal to return to the wording of the paragraph just mentioned, which is currently in force, because we accepted the amendments at first reading, but we nevertheless decided that there is a need for further debate here, for discussion. We would therefore like to leave the article without amendment. So the 9th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U339	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Andreja Judine's proposal to withdraw the amendments supported at first reading in Article 148. Article 148 provides for liability for infringement of copyright and related rights. And you can now be brought to justice if there is serious damage. The Ministry proposed - and we supported it at first reading - that responsibility should also be included if this was done to a considerable extent. Significant amount - 10 minimum monthly salaries as provided for. There is now a smaller amount, but it is expected to be 10. What does that mean? This means that by adding down how much you pay, for example, software or... Well, first and foremost, software in stores, we can figure out their amount. And if the amount is higher, the user should be criminalised. Where is the problem? At the moment, there is a need to detect injury. Hence, it is not what the price is in the store but what damage is caused. It is therefore important, in my opinion, to maintain and not amend this article. The Legal Commission supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U341	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to amend Article 168 and to exclude the word "abuse". The article provides for liability for a wrongful decision on the right of custody, care and access to the lack of children. The Ministry of Justice has quite rightly pointed out that avoidance is, by its very nature, abusive and that this word is, in essence, a barrier, because it is actually necessary to prove what can already be found. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U343	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to exclude the word "temporary" from the title and disposition of Article 168.1. This Article provides for liability for non-compliance with a decision on temporary protection against violence. We adopted this norm in order to ensure implementation of the procedure provided for in the Civil Procedure Law, but the Ministry of Justice has rightly indicated that there are also decisions that have been taken outside Latvia and have other names. And so that we can enforce these decisions and punish them in Latvia, we do not need to use the name in question. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U345	Proposal No 12 is an analogue to the above. So it also means... I'm sorry! Proposal 13, yes... Amendment 12 was supported. Proposal No 13, which is an analogue to proposal No 11, provides for the exclusion of the word ‘malignant’ in Article 170. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U347	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office which has a editorial nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U349	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides for amendments to Article 233, which provides for liability for unauthorised acts of arms, ammunition, explosives. The aim of the proposal is to harmonise the first and second paragraphs of the article, to prevent non-compliance... to correct any non-compliance found. The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U351	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to amend the second paragraph of Article 233. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U353	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to amend the ammunition of Article 235, which also concerns weapons. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U355	Proposal 18 is similar to proposal 17. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U357	The proposal provides for the addition of Article 236, which deals with the careless storage, carriage, transport, transfer and other activities of firearms and firearms ammunition. _Other Organiser This proposal entails responsibility when actions have been taken not only with weapons but also with essential parts... The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U359	Proposal 20 provides for amendments to Article 237. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U361	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to amend the sanction in Article 237. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U363	The proposal of 22 provides for the addition of Article 237 of the Criminal Law with the second paragraph, providing that liability shall also be assumed for the actions provided for in the first paragraph of this Article where serious consequences have been caused. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U365	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Andreja Judine to exclude the first paragraph of Article 260. This proposal was supported by the Public Prosecutor's Office, supported by the Ministry of Justice, supported by experts, but Members had different views. We should therefore have a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U366	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin. ( From the drug’s intermediates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U367	Yes, I understand, colleagues, it's the last... Colleagues, this is the last bill, and everyone is already dreaming that we will finish right away, but the issue is important, and so you will have to listen, and perhaps you will also be able to debate. This is the first paragraph of Article 260. It lays down the responsibility for road traffic offences, which have been committed in a clear manner without the use of alcohol, drugs and which have caused a minor injury to a person. Our criminal law provides for liability for minor personal injury if committed intentionally. If they are done by negligence, there is no responsibility. But in this case, despite being careless, responsibility is foreseen. Can anyone tell you where the problem is? The problem is the fact that according to Section 7 of the Criminal Procedure Law, a person can be held liable if the victim wishes to do so. So here's not a story about the issue of road safety... And let's call it back... There is a situation here where the victim can decide whether or not to be in criminal proceedings. And what is the result? The result is that our victims, who essentially want to receive compensation, cannot receive it because the insurance company refuses to pay money - because you have criminal proceedings, let us wait for criminal proceedings. There are other victims who are actually engaged in extortion because they are demanding money for no criminal proceedings. And now the last story. For example, for me, a person described the situation right now. He said in the prison: “Even EUR 3,000, and then everything is right or there will be criminal proceedings.” Since victims receive compensation, including compensation for moral hazard, from an insurance undertaking, this is not possible. How can the problem be addressed? There are two options. The first option is to call offenders to administrative liability without criminal liability, as I also proposed. If you support that proposal, then we will solve the problem in this way. If this is not supported, then I will make another proposal, which will make criminal proceedings mandatory. This will mean that we really want to be punished because road safety is at stake. And let's punish everyone. What does that mean? This will mean, for example, when a person drives a vehicle and something happens... The damage - a slight injury to the body - will be done, for example, to his son, who sits next to him, but will be criminalized. Let's say we can do that. I would like to reiterate that the proposal was supported by both the Prosecutor General's Office and the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of the Interior also supports it on condition that we correct another article. Therefore, experts believe that the proposal should be supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U368	So the debate is closed. Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Member Judea's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, against - 28, refrains - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U369	Next and 24. - a proposal by the Legal Commission to maintain the sanction currently provided for in Article 262, namely confiscation of property. At first reading, it was proposed to exclude it, but we believe that it should be maintained. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U371	The next one is 25. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice relating to the second paragraph of Article 262.1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U372	Colleagues, please, take your seats in the Chamber. If someone has not noticed, I would remind you: the sitting is still on-going, we have a rapporteur on the table. Please, let's focus on work. Members support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U373	The next one is 26. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which provides for a new version of Article 296 of the Criminal Law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U375	The next proposal is 27 - Andreja Judine's proposal to amend the Criminal Law by adding a new Article 319.1. The proposal was not supported, so we will have a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U376	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin. Let us start a debate. ( The Hall of Noise, the Intersages: “On the Nature! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U377	Yes, colleagues, just for nature. I think that there will be nothing terrible with Members if they do a little bit longer on their working day, Thursday. I understand that I would perhaps like to finish more quickly, but I think the issue is important and serious enough. Colleagues, you may have heard all of us hear that our Criminal Law contains the article “Consumption”. According to Article 179 of the Criminal Law, the person liable for criminal liability who has misappropriated or wasted the property entrusted to him. The article is good, and we have a practice that, for example, people are convicted of a small amount of embezzlement. For example, a person took a new TV set, took it to the lombard, and even though he had to go to the repair shop, the price for that TV was €40. He is called to account and sentenced. But we have officials. And if he commits an offence, the official should be held liable for abuse of his position. And it provides for liability to be incurred if there is a material damage. How, unfortunately, does this be interpreted in practice? In practice, this is interpreted as follows: if the common mortal committed an embezzlement of EUR 5, 10, then we are held to account, but if the official does the same, we will call him to account for the loss of at least five minimum monthly salaries - EUR 1800 - and also for other interests at stake. Representatives of our Public Prosecutor's Office, representatives of the Ministry of Justice during the... During the meeting of the panel, he pointed out that this was a wrong practice that we were not held accountable. An official may also be held liable as an ordinary mortal according to the same verse. But it doesn't happen in life. For example, information from one process. It is an employee of the municipality, it is scrap metal. He decided: Why should the municipality deal with such small amounts? He took it, took it, and delivered it in his own name, and put the money in his pocket. What's the problem? There is no minimum wage, no responsibility, no harm! There's, for example, a computer. Why use your computer if you can hand it over to your child? He took it, gave it to the child. Given that the price of the computer is not five minimum wages, then you may not be punished. So it's like we have double standards. Of course, one can agree with the Ministry of Justice that Article 179 should be applied. We have the wrong practice. But what can Members do if the practice is wrong, and even the Deputy Prosecutor General points out that we were previously told that responsibility is there? Now we have amended the article, and now it is not clear. I.Zariņš: “Time! Time for break!” ), so I propose that we create a special article, with responsibility for embezzlements, for waste, so that everyone can be clear. Not that one reads it, the other reads it differently, and there is no result. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U378	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - Member Andreja Judina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 11, for - 47. The proposal is not supported. Colleagues! An application has been received from Members Ainars Latkovska, Lolita Čigāne, Ojārs Ērika Kalniņa, Inta Dāldera and Ilze Viņķele requesting that the sitting on 8 October be held without interruption until absolutely all agenda items of the Saeima sitting, including amendments to the Criminal Law reported by Member Andrejs Judins, have been discussed. Are there any objections to Members? So we're going to go ahead with the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U379	We have two more proposals left. 28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It provides for the amendment of the sanction laid down in Article 322. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U381	And the last - Amendment 29 - is intended to amend the transitional provisions, explaining how and when the penalties - police control - are to be applied and where and when and from which date the penalties should be applied - the supervision of the probation. This proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U383	So the draft law has been examined and please support it at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U384	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Criminal Law" (No 187/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 86, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U385	13 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U386	Thank you. Proposals are due by 13 October this year. Colleagues! Meeting on today's question and answer. I would like to inform you that a written reply has been received to the question of the Member, Zarina, Mirska, Raimonds Rubika, Potapkin and Orlovs, the Prime Minister, Laimdota Straujuma, about the failure of the Ministry of the Economy in the construction sector, which does not satisfy the applicants, but Mrs Straujuma can not come to an oral response today. Regarding the Member, Guntis Belevičs, Minister for Health of Silver, May, Baloža, Shimfas and Platoper, the Minister for Health “On the Implementation of eHealth Projects”, received a written reply which does not satisfy the applicants, but the Minister has informed them that he cannot attend the oral response today. ( A noise in the hall, laughter. Depp. I. Pastor: “Speak now!” ) In connection with the question of the Member, Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, about the faster liberalisation of the gas market (Sitting's President knocked down with a hammer.) - the written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister is unable to present an oral reply today. Regarding Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova's question to Minister for Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On Collisions in Construction” – written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs that it is not possible to arrive today to give an oral answer. ( From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “Where is the government?” ) On the question of Member Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Zariņa, Agešina and Arthur Rubika, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the Action Plan on the possible mass arrival of asylum seekers in Latvia”. The question was referred to Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovskis and Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs for a joint response. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister of the Interior informs us that he cannot attend the oral response today. In connection with the question of Member Zarina, Zemļinska, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the Regulatory Regulation of the Construction Sector”. It is re-addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. A written reply is received that does not satisfy the applicants, but the Minister informs them that no oral answer can be given today. Regarding Member Zarina, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Latvia’s position on the issue of refugee quotas”. The question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A written reply which does not satisfy the applicants has been received. Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovskis informs that he cannot attend the oral response today. Regarding the question of Members Pimenova, Ribakova, Urbanoviča, Elksniņa and Agešina, Minister of Finance Janis Reirs, about the planned amendments to the Law on Value Added. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. With regard to the question of silver, May, Platoper, Balož and Šymfas, Minister of Education and Science, Marite Seile, about science development and funding. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs us that it is not possible to come to the response today. Regarding Member Pimenova, Orlova, Clementyeva, Arthur Rubika and Adamson's question to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, about the minor Latvian citizen Catherine Brice, who is held by the British social service. A written reply has been received which satisfies the applicants. Regarding the question to the Member, Mr Mārīte Seile, Minister for Education and Science of Silver, Symphas, Maya, Baloža and Platoper (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) On access to education of interest and the development of an education system of interest. The written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister is unable to attend today's oral response. In connection with Member of the Transport Minister of Silver, Shifas, May, Baloža and Platoper, Anris Matīss, about development of the Port of Liepaja and Special Economic Zone and attraction of cargo to the Latvian logistics sector. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Smart Specialization Strategy” by Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova. The question has been referred to the Minister for Education and Science, but the Minister informs us that he cannot come to the response today. ( FROM a faction: “Where are they? ” ) New questions have been received from Members. ( From the drug depot. I. Pastor: “Fantastic!” ) Members Silver, Maya, Balodis, Platopers and Mežeckis have asked Members about the draft law “On the State Budget for 2016”. We hand it over to the Minister for Finance, Mr Reira, for a reply. A question asked by Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijus Agešins, Arthur Rubiks, Jānis Tutins and Ivans Ribakovs has also been received. ' - 'On the introduction of a solidarity tax', which we pass on to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma to reply. But Member Zarins has applied for motivation. Colleagues, please, sit down. Your colleague will give you a motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U387	Hello, colleagues! At last sitting, you supported the government's proposed solidarity tax. Then we are asking the government now to explain whether and how any measures will be taken, whether in state-owned companies or in those companies where the state owns significant shares... Any measures will be taken to ensure that this solidarity tax is paid there and that tax optimisation schemes are eliminated. It will demonstrate how well thought-out, how adequate and how joint this current government proposal on tax policy is. Thank you. ( From the medicine, Bravo!) FREQUENCY OF THE FRONT. Depp. J.Adamson: “Short and succinct!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U388	Thank you. It is therefore time for registration. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the Member Aija Barča for the notification.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U389	Dear members of the Social and Labour Commission and members of the Sub-Commission on Public Health! Meeting of the Committee in Colonel 13.15 Let's hear the Finance Minister... ( From the drug depot. A. Berzins: “The Minister of Finance will be?” ) Oh, no! I'm sorry! Health. Minister of Health. Cheers! ( From the hall: “He is so rich... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U390	Thank you. Name to the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U391	Yes, thank you. After Aia Barch's presentation, it's very difficult to talk when she's wrong... All right, thank you. Not registered today: Solvita Āboltiņa... Not in the hall, Marjan Ivanov-Jevsejeva... No, Andrey Judin... very careless today... Yeah, it's... not only missed his presentation, but also failed to register... John Crowd... Yeah, no hall, Gunar Curry... No, Alexey Loskutov... No, Romuald No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't, Sylvia Schiffe... Not applicable. Thank you for your attention. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-08-PT12-321-U392	I'm closing the sitting.
