ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-18-PT12-330-U1	Good afternoon, everybody! On 18 November 2015, the Saeima opened its solemn sitting dedicated to the 97th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia. For a moment of silence, let us mention the victims of the terrorist attacks in France! ( A moment of silence.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-18-PT12-330-U2	Name of the holiday address to Ināra Mūrniece, President of the 12th Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-18-PT12-330-U3	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Highly respected Prime Minister! Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! In Latvia's statehood each following year began on the evening of November 18. It was 97 years ago that the hearts were troubled and minded with the care of the world’s war. The day of November 18 in Riga was cold, sprayed rain. Riga was poorly equipped and lived in the semi-parallel economic life of the bad times. Nevertheless, there was an internal uplift. The air was brought about by the proximity of change. The decision was mature. The dream could have become a reality. The Latvians – the soldiers and the victims of the war – lived with a sense of fate. Hope and salvation were one – the country of Latvia. On November 18, 1918 the state of Latvia was proclaimed at the present National Theatre. The theater house was rich in greens and flowers. The red - white color of the flag glowed, and the grass was crowded. Praying the people close to hearts – “God bless Latvia!” – was first expressed as a national anthem. November 18, 1918 was not a Hollywood “end-of-happy” scenario. It will be the decisive year of 1919 and the heroic struggles of Latvian soldiers. The activities of the Latvian Interim Government from the warship “Saratov” will be carried out. Only then will spring of 1920 come, which will finally bring peace. The dream of the independent state of Latvia was fulfilled in the generation. But the sons and daughters of Latvia had given their lives for Latvia. The people had shown that they were willing to pay the highest price for freedom. We have received a precious heritage – our country. What have we done this year? What is the world situation? Compassion and solidarity with the victims of the Black Friday in Paris is clear: Europe will not be subjected to terror and intimidation, but will remain faithful to its values. The aim of the terrorists is to sow confusion. Terrorism and violence must not remain unpunished, and this is a common challenge for Europe. This has been a year of dramatic events. The Kremlin's aggression in Ukraine showed geopolitical errors in the bona fide international community. It was a harsh lesson for a careless Europe busy with its "business as usual". ‘ Russia is what it is, not what we thought it was before,” Estonian President Ilves recently said. Misleadingly, it proved that aggressive imperial revanishment can be prevented by making services that please it. Western international policy is based on the assumption that the international agreement is being respected a priori. It turns out that it is not, and it is not clear how to bring the country affected by the Kremlin's aggression back within the previous limits. Ukraine was the wake-up call of the Western world. In a number of international formats, Latvia together with the other two Baltic countries became Ukrainian lawyers. We were increasingly heard by the Nordic countries, and together with Poland we were involved in strengthening the Eastern Europe region. The annexation of Crimea was not recognised internationally and, as was the case with Russia's aggression in the east of Ukraine, was widely condemned. We remember how important it was that the Western world did not recognise the occupation and annexation of the Baltic States as part of the Soviet Union. We said it again: the principle of inviolability of borders between sovereign states is sacred. Ladies and gentlemen! We are strengthened by the conviction that membership of NATO and membership of the European Union was and is the right choice. It is necessary to go further and reach the long-term presence of NATO forces in the Baltics. We have something to say to our allies, we have been heard and understood. Since last year, NATO has significantly increased the number of patrollers in the Baltic airspace by improving response capacity. A new force is being carried out in partnership with the United States, which is also evident in the presence of the US armed forces. The United States and other allies help us to feel secure. There has also been an awareness that external and internal threats to the new generation of war are equally important. With the NATO Centre of Excellence Stratcom project, Latvia provides security policy expertise to NATO. During peace, the country is building its own security building. It is first built in the minds of people. The people will defend what they regard as a value. Every effort must be made to have value in the hearts of the people of the country. Latvia lives during the flood of patriotism. More and more Latvian sons and daughters are taking part in Earthsurfing and schools' children are taking part in Newsurfing. It is necessary to ensure that the rapidly growing Earthguard receives the necessary equipment and armaments and equipment. The increasing financing of protection should be applied to both the Earthguard and the Newguard, as should the entire defence sector. Potential threats are testing – testing politicians, public administration, power structures, opinion leaders, every one of us. We can thank the fate that the challenges are now small. Seeing errors is an opportunity to learn from them. If the threat is greater, there is no time to learn, you need to be able to respond to the challenges of previous homework. Hybrid war technologies are targeted at the country's weakest points. This year has given us serious homework that we have done. But there are questions that have not been answered. Latvian law enforcement authorities are working hard with a person who broke the blotted picket, which praised Russia's aggression in Ukraine. But they don't see multiple demolishing of the exhibition dedicated to Maidan in front of the doors of the government building. There is a charge against a demonstration in support of aggression, but there is a multiple political vandalism in the heart of the capital. Public authorities are asking: how can this be? State security – these are us. Our banking system hygiene, energy security, cash flow. Our self-criticism is important. Let us ask ourselves: do we openly recognise that money of unknown origin can be bought in influence, and politics can be bought? Is the fact that around half a million euro, which suddenly appeared in the hands of the head of the state capital company and whose origin he is unable to prove, is the issue of national security? The issue of state security is also the purchase of aircraft associated with the strengthening of the Russian military complex. We are seeing the crisis in Syria with the greatest concern. The issue of Syria also falls within the context of the migration crisis. The number of asylum seekers in Europe has increased dramatically, raising questions about the understanding of migration processes in Europe. The Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees clearly defines what constitutes a refugee. Thus, the generalisations, calling all asylum seekers refugees, are misleading policies. Politicians should listen carefully to what the people think. A politician who speaks monologously or ignores the people's reasoning is worthy of this. Through misleading policies, politicians lose the trust of the people. Migration in Europe has reminded of errors in the integration of Latvia and difficulties in the integration of Gentiles. In a country where only 62 percent of the base nation has remained as a result of the occupation, more decisive steps must be taken to build a more cohesive nation. We still have ethnicly divided schools. The political will to start education in the state language has proved persistent. Asylum seekers living in Latvia still send their children to schools where training takes place in Russian. Integration is a matter of national security. And integration is not possible in a society in which fragmentation has been artificially maintained since childhood. Ladies and gentlemen! This time has led to a return to genuine civic activity. In Liepaja, the charismatic and energetic Maris Ceirulis, together with his peers, has created a project “Spirits Garden” for other blind people. Great cooperation between non-governmental organisations and activists has been developed on the Charity page of social networks. At times, within less than 24 hours, activists collect the necessary goods and deliver them to those in need. The moment of the international evaluation of Latvia's donation and assistance culture was the prize of Rūta Diamonds with the Honorary Medal of the European Citizens' Prize. This medal is an assessment of the heart work of both Ziedot.lv and charitable activists. In addition to non-governmental organisations, where workers receive salaries and project fees, no unfunded civil initiatives have appeared. SOS for Ukraine operates tirelessly by a society that has sent several cargoes with donated goods to Ukraine. In order to avoid the possibility of demolishing the exhibition “Maidana People” in Jelgava, local activists protected it day and night. The new Diaspora self-organization networks are becoming more tangible. People in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and elsewhere are looking for each other and working, and are celebrating the celebrations together. Internet platforms, Sunday schools, annual events, dance and theatre groups – Latvian people are everywhere! Historically, the self-organisation of the Diaspora has been important to Latvia. Trimda organizations actively participated in the restoration of Latvia's statehood in the years of occupation. Self-organisation is a sign of popular health. There are times in the history of the people when the awareness of the power itself grows stronger and external and internal conditions awaken the joint action. Thank you to all in Latvia and in the distance, who work independently for our common values! Honourable Members! The highest form of self-organisation of the people is a state. The country will exist as long as the people want it. External attacks do not destroy the state's will, even if the country is occupied or suffering from the challenges of the era. It's like countries are sick. Countries are likely to die. And it's from the inside. Fragmentation – political, economic, ethnic – is weakened. The internal struggle of parties, the political clarity, mutual conspiracy are not good for what the winner feels. People are losing trust in politicians. This year we celebrate the anniversary of Rainis and Aspazia. Both creative minds up to the ends of the hair were in politics. They had an opportunity to put ideas into practice. Their ideas were great – free and independent Latvia, social justice, spirituality, equality. The power and the state were the field of reflection. Rainis denied the policy as a commercial process, saying: "With dirty resources it is not possible to achieve a clean goal: the aim itself is to become dirty. When dirty water is poured into a clean vessel, then it is the top dirty vessel.’ Rainis's words to us as a reminder. The task of political power is to work for the people who have temporarily granted it to politicians. The politician's work in the Saeima is a serious test. The Saeima is an important task – to regain its place as a centre of state policy and directional leader. I hope that the Saeima will face this challenge in the future. A country exists when a nation has its own national identity. Only a national identity creates a need for a country in which it can be preserved. The people's consensus is supported by social solidarity. A country in which the forces ignore the needs of the people has no future. There is currently mass discrimination in Latvian, especially among young people, on the labour market due to language. Why should a Latvian speak a foreign language in his own country, in his own workplace, if it has no connection with a foreign country? It's not normal. Young Latvians leave Latvia because of discrimination in the labour market. If forced russification is a condition for young Latvians entering the labour market, then the question of the responsibility of power is very direct. Latvian discrimination in your country must stop! Solidarity is both a moral and a legal duty. The solidarity tax is a step forward. It is right that people with higher incomes will have to pay the same percentage as those who receive less. Injustice is being corrected, but we need to look towards a progressive tax system. I believe that it will soon be implemented. It is increasingly clear that Latvia is facing a demographic crisis. We have not fully addressed the challenge of providing a comprehensive support programme for people who raise children. Demographic policy is a forward-looking smart policy. I believe that we, like our neighbours in Estonia, are able to sort it out. We also need to increase support for foster families and people who decide to take a responsible step in adoption. Dear people! By celebrating the 97th birthday of Latvia's country together with the love of the homeland, we will experience: Latvia – it is each of us, Latvia – it is all of us! Our joy and pain, success and failure, our work and responsibility – for each other and for your country. In the centenary of Latvia we will enter with the words of Jānis Čakste in 1919: “The development of the Latvian people, her abilities, her cultural assets provided a guarantee that the Latvian people, once becoming a state, will be able to fully stand on their own feet. This consciousness... turned out and grew to be a strong will in time. We want to be free and free!” We will welcome Latvia's centenary with more openness, favour, warmth and love! Then together we will all be even stronger, safer, socially responsible in Latvia. Thank you to everyone in Gimtene and in the distance who each in their house maintains and creates their own small part of Latvia! Thank you very much to those who bring up their children. Thank you for teaching to love Latvia, to be united and to cooperate for Latvia! I send the most heartwarming good wishes to all Latvian patriots and all Latvian friends both in Latvia and in the distant world! The life of the sun for Latvia! A fire of light and a full state of soul to all of us. God bless Latvia! (Applause) ( A national anthem is being played.) (Applause) ( A national anthem is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-11-18-PT12-330-U4	Thus, on November 18, 2015, I declare the official sitting of the Saeima dedicated to the 97th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia closed. I invite those present to continue the festival together in the Red Hall, raising a glass of champagne! (Applause)
