ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Colonel is 9 a.m. Please, take your seats! Let's start the meeting of the Saeima on 29 October 2015. Before we start to discuss the approved agenda for the Saeima sitting, we need to decide on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks to amend the agenda of today’s sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On Change of Date of Review of the Draft Law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications””. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. On the other hand, the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application requests that the draft decision on the approval of the 12th Saeima Member's mandate be placed on the agenda of today's meeting and that this draft decision be examined before the first item on the agenda. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. Five Members - Shadurskis, Upenieks, Loskutovs, Lejiņš and Kursīte - are asking for changes to the agenda of today's sitting - to exclude from the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections to the City Council and the District Council” and to include it on the agenda of the meeting of 14 January 2016. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. On the other hand, Members Šadurskis, Trupovnieks, Putra, Silver and Debtor are asking to exclude from today's meeting the draft law on “Law on payments to administrations by commercial companies engaged in the mining industry or in the development of primary forests”. ( The request is handwritten, hard to read.) Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting to discuss the agenda adopted for today's sitting. Draft decision on the approval of the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application has examined the application of 12th Saeima Member Marjanas Ivanova-Jevsevsevs regarding the appointment of a Member's mandate, as well as the application of the candidate for Member's post, Aleksandras Jakimovs, that he agrees to take up the 12th Saeima Member's duties. The Commission unanimously supported and decided to direct the draft decision at the Saeima meeting on the approval of the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U3	Thank you. I call on Alexander Jakimov to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U4	Aleksandrs Jakimovs, taking office as a member of the Saeima, swears to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform his duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U5	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the 12th Saeima Member's mandate! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Member Jakimova and I call for a seat in the Chamber. (Applause) Dear colleagues, We are starting to examine the next section of the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law ‘On the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank to the Foreign Affairs Commission and to the European Investment Bank for loans for investment projects in the African, Caribbean and Pacific and overseas countries and territories’, to the Foreign Affairs Commission and to the Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘On the long-term debt management agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the European Investment Bank monitoring payment and repayment procedures under the Guarantee Agreement on loans from the European Investment Bank for investment projects in the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and territories’ be forwarded to the Foreign Affairs Commission and determined as the responsible Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” submitted by the Member to the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour by Betes, Viļuma, Kaliningrad, Ruka and Šice be referred to the Commission for Social Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. According to the parliamentary roll of order, one Member can speak "for", one is "no" to refer the draft law to the commission. Name of Member Inga Bite. She has applied to talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U6	Good morning, dear colleagues! Currently, Section 13, Paragraph Three of the Law on State Social Benefits states that a person who has not reached adulthood receives state social security benefit, has lost one or both dependants and has not entered into marriage. The allowance shall continue to be paid if this person is studying until the age of 24. The law provides that the benefit is to be suspended regardless of age if the person is married. This provision is discriminatory, it is aimed at those who choose to link their lives to another person in a legally official way - marriage. It is possible that the purpose of this provision was to say that a person no longer needs social security benefits if he has established his family. Unfortunately, I have to say that many believe that a family can be established in a different way. There are people living together without marriage, and in this way those who marry are placed in an unequal and discriminatory situation compared with those who do not want to marry but live together. When preparing the draft law, we asked the State Social Insurance Agency: How many of these cases have the benefits been suspended because of the person’s marriage? Unfortunately, the State Social Security Agency could not provide an answer to this question. Consequently, we cannot calculate the possible budgetary impact of the draft law. However, I believe that this impact is more symbolic: it prevents the discriminatory situation more than actually affects the budget. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask not to discriminate against young people to whom marriage is valuable and who wish to conclude this covenant, and I ask for support for the draft law that has been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U7	Thank you, Member Bite. ‘ No one has applied to speak against’. Do Members object to this draft law being passed on to the Social and Labour Commission, making it a commission responsible? ( From the medicine, “Yes, it is! ” ) Members object. That question must therefore be distinguished by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” submitted to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs by Members Bite, Viļuma, Kaliningrad, Ruka and Šice, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 22, for - 26. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Social Services and Social Assistance Act of the Saeima’s Social and Labour Affairs Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission and that it be designated as the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes the Member Kerry, Janson, Viļuma, Schultz... well, I am sorry, this is excluded from the agenda, but I still have it in the folder. My mistake! The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the repeal of the Law on the Office of the Interior Security be submitted to the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission by Member Bondara, Liepiņa, Kaimiņa, Ruka, Kaliningrad and Šics and that it be the committee responsible. According to the parliamentary roll of order, one Member can speak "for", one is "no" to refer the draft law to the commission. Name to Member John Ruck. He will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U8	Dear Saeima to the Presidium! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Association of Latvian Regions, like the ruling coalition, believes that the number of officials in public administration needs to be reviewed, that it is necessary to evaluate the functions of each member of public administration and, in essence, to optimise public administration. Unfortunately, it has to be said that this is not the first time that the words of the government are not in harmony with their actions. Therefore, the Association of the Regions of Latvia calls for the Law of the Office of Internal Security to be repealed for two main reasons: the objectives indicated at the adoption of this Law are not achieved and taxpayers' money is wasted unnecessarily. I would remind you that according to the statement of the draft law “Law of the Office of Internal Security”, the system established in Latvia meets the criteria of effective investigation established in case-law, as one of these criteria highlights the criterion of independence of investigation. In particular, the persons conducting the investigation must be independent of the persons involved in the incident being investigated. This includes not only independence from institutional and hierarchical links, but also obvious independence manifested by critical assessment of evidence. In the context of this criterion, a conflict of interest could be identified in investigations conducted by the State Police, the Security Police, the Financial Police, the Military Police, the Prison Administration and the State Border Guard in relation to investigating the criminal offences actually committed by officials of the same authority. However, Article 4 of the Law on the Office of the Interior states: “The functions of the Office are to detect, investigate and prevent criminal offences committed by... officials and employees of institutions subordinate to the Ministry of the Interior, with the exception of security police officers and personnel...”. Thus, the established objective of establishing under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior a single institution which would only deal with the detection, investigation and prevention of offences committed in the performance of its duties and related to violence is clearly not achieved. At the same time, the Security Police is also an institution under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and has the right to investigate offences committed in state law enforcement institutions. Would it not be only logical to extend the functions of the Security Police instead of maintaining another law enforcement authority? I would also like to point out that the Security Police is a professional body with extensive delegation of functions to be carried out, in contrast to the narrowly delegated functions of the Office on Internal Security. However, if there is no publicly available information, the Security Police budget, compared to the planned budget of the Office for Internal Security, which is over 4 million, is just over twice as much; this, in my opinion, shows that funds have been wasted. Also, the argument that Latvia would lose in the European Court of Human Rights does not withstand criticism, because compensations paid in about 300 thousand euros per year are incompatible with the budget of the Office for Internal Security. Colleagues, I call on you to be responsible and to support the referral of this draft law to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U9	Thank you. No one has applied to speak against a draft law being passed on to the commission. Do Members object to this draft law being passed on to the Commission? In that case, this question must be distinguished by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption the draft law “On the repeal of the Law on the Office of Internal Security” presented by Member Bondara, Liepiņa, Kaimina, Ruka, Kleinberga and Šics, stating that it is the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 50, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Development Planning Systems” submitted by the Member to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government of Bondara, Liepiņa, Kaimina, Kleinberga and Šics be transferred to the Commission and that it be the committee responsible. According to the parliamentary roll of order, one Member can speak "for", one is "no" to refer the draft law to the commission. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. He has applied to speak “for”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U10	Dear Members, honourable Members, Inspiration can be like overweight - easy to grow, but hard to get rid of. And a person with overweight has problems with both cardiovascular diseases and other types of problems. It is just as a country with too large office machines that has problems, because it costs too much, is too inefficient and is unable to provide the services that citizens need. That is why politicians are very active in their speeches, especially in their pre-election speeches, in defending smaller, more efficient and more professional public administration. The Centre for the Coordination of Reactors was established at least on paper to make public administration more efficient and professional. But it's on paper! Normal coordination between institutions in countries is carried out by political offices such as the Prime Minister's Office. However, during the establishment of the Centre for the Coordination of Overresors Valdis Dombrovskis chose the path of increasing the number of officials and not increasing the capacity of the political office. And the employees of their nearest political office were not employed in the Prime Minister's office in Brīvības iela, but sent to work in various state enterprises. For example, Gints Freimanis was sent to work on “Latvian Air Traffic”, a very generous and well-paid position, and Valda Dombrovskis worked only with special tasks. For example, to clean up his credit and to resolve the question of Valda Dombrovskis' entry to Brussels. ( From the medicine, “Ooo! ” ) Maija Celmina - Lattelecom (Interface from the medicine: “I didn’t know!” )... Right? He worked in public relations with Valda Dombrovskis, instead of working daily in the office and performing the necessary functions. But someone had to do the day - to - day work. And then the Prime Minister, when he said that there was a need for coordination between the public authorities, set up a Coordination Centre for the Perseurs in order to eliminate the risks that could prevent him from entering Brussels. Then the government of Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis fell, and nothing else came instead than the government of Laimdotas Straujuma. For the winners Straujuma, there is simply no need for the Coordination Centre for the Reconnaissances, just like the political office, because it is used as a secretariat by the political office. The Head of the Political Bureau is usually the most influential person than the Minister. I will only tell you honestly: Mr Straujuma, the head of the political bureau of Laimdota Straujuma, no one really knows. It is therefore not worth raising additional excess weight in public administration. Perhaps, however, we can save EUR 800 000 per year and spend them for more efficient and better purposes. Dear Members, honourable Members, There are politicians who speak and do nothing (Dep. K. Šadurskis and other Members: “Yes, it is! Yes!’ ) and feel like kidney fat. But there are politicians who want to do it, but they're afraid. I fear that we can be wrong, and I fear that these narrow interest groups will put pressure on them. And then there are politicians who do. I call on you today, my fellow Members, to be among those who are doing and reducing the number of people working in public administration. And by reducing the Center for the Coordination of Peresors, believe me, no one! - Latvia will not notice that this has been reduced. The Latvian budget will save 800 thousand euros, and you will be able to share this money for other things important to Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “Ungratility of the World’s Wages!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U11	Thank you. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis. She will obviously speak against the referral of the draft law to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U12	Good morning, honourable colleagues! If our historical memory is not so short, then I will ask you to be remembered (The group said: “We call Dombrovskis!” ) A historical period when we had Prime Minister Krištopan and head of the office Bondar. And, you know, I'll say: if we have to look at the future, then I've voted with both hands to keep the Centre for the Coordination of Peresors, because it's a certain difference and a guarantee that if something like Prime Minister Krištopan and his head of office ever happens in life, then there's at least a guarantee that we have professional experts in the country, regardless of how the elections coincide (from the drug: who doesn't do anything!) ), which can even put such a pair of dreams into some kind of sound and evidence-based policies. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “You have already been a professional minister!” ) Thus, in my opinion, the previous speech of the opponent simply showed even more clearly that the greater threat of an enlarged civil service in the country is loud, handsome and non-professional politicians. Thank you. (Applause) Unity from the group: Bravo! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U13	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Development Planning System” submitted by the Member to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government by Bondara, Liepiņa, Kaimina, Kleinberga and Šics, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 30, for - 24. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapakina, Zemlinska and Orlova be submitted to all Saeima commissions and that the Legal Commission be the committee responsible. According to the parliamentary roll of order, one Member can speak of, one against the referral of the draft law to the commissions. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš. He will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U14	Hello, dear colleagues! I will not be able to answer the question, which is Krištopan, but today the question is very important. This is an issue that has been the subject of debate for several years now. The last of them was at the end of 2012. Even before the adoption of the budget, the coalition politicians (the then “the coalition of the rule of law” politicians!) raised the question that we must finally resort to the evaluation of parliamentary immunity... to some extent abolishing to a large extent the archaic remains that exist up to now in our Constitution. What would I like to say to you, all our colleagues? THE FRAUD has now submitted at least 10 draft laws concerning the Institute of Immunity as a whole in this respect. I mean, if you and all of us, together and individually, are in favour of addressing this issue in a general, mutual context and the legislator's due care to analyse the necessity and nature of this Institute, we must recognise that immunity exists with regard to very, very many public officials - Members of the Saeima, judges, prosecutors, law enforcement, representatives of the state security authorities, the President of Latvia. I'll tell you a very interesting one. Which are those to whom we have no immunity at all in the country? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins intersaxes.) You will not believe, but they are members of the Cabinet of Ministers! No Minister, Prime Minister, has any form of immunity - neither administrative legal immunity nor criminal legal immunity. Today SASKĀJA offers a number of draft laws aimed at an overall assessment of the activities of the Institute of Immunity in Latvia. And what then SASKA offers, given that both in the Saeima Legal Commission last week and in the previous sittings of the Saeima, we supported the opening of a debate on this issue, namely Parliament's support? As regards amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, we are proposing to exclude Articles 29 and 30. What are they talking about? Article 29: “A member of the Saeima may not be arrested by being searched without the consent of the Saeima.” If there is a decision by the court that a search should be carried out with a Member, Parliament's consent shall be required. While we receive Parliament's consent, as we know, historic shaking is never happening at all, or the smoke of one of the other Members at home from the stack. ‘ A member of the Saeima may be arrested if he or she is caught at his or her own expense. Every detention of a member of the Saeima within 24 hours shall be notified to the Saeima Bureau, which shall preside at the next Saeima sitting for a decision on the detention or release of a member of the Saeima.’ Well, let's accept a Member who commits an unlawful offence: the elections buy votes. He is detained and then the parliament, the coalition and Shadurski vote against extradition. ( Medications.) Imagine! However, it is also, in our view, a largely archaic rule that does not allow it to be turned against a Member of Parliament. The decision of the Court shall be taken but may not be taken. ‘ Between the sessions and the opening of the session, the Saeima Bureau shall decide on the detention of a member of the Saeima.’ Imagine - one of you being detained by a judge's decision - being arrested, and those people who are appointed by political affiliation come together and make a decision - will be Elksnins in custody or will not be there. ( From the hall: “There will be! ” ) You see, if there is unity in power, then the Elksyn will be in custody. If there is power, then there will be unity in the prison. That is the true meaning of life, which shows to a large extent that this institute has no place as such, because politicians are to a large extent deciding on the detention, search or administrative responsibility of one or other politician. The power... can't... can't decide. What does the coalition offer today? Maybe I'll ask you... I'll need three minutes, because the question is really complicated. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. A.Bērzins: “Let him go to the death penalty!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U15	Do Members object to the extension of speaking time? Members don't mind how I understand. Three more minutes. We're extending the time by three minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U16	Here we go! That's how the real things in our Parliament are doing! We want to extradite a Member to punishment or we do not want it, it actually depends not on the letter of the law, but on what we have in terms of sympathy or prejudice towards that or another Member. The same thing is... For example, Article 30 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, which we offer to rule out. What does it say? (This debate was also a major start for coalition parties.) ‘No criminal prosecution or administrative penalty may be imposed against a member of the Saeima without the consent of the Saeima.’ A really archaic norm! If we look around one issue - about the issue of immunity - it should also be abolished. In fact, two words... I wanted to get a bigger poster, of course... We should abolish all these norms in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia regarding the introduction of immunity criteria. If you believe that you can judge the opposition in Parliament today, then we will be happy to judge you in the future (Dep. I.Viņķele: “The Court will judge the court!” ), when you will be in opposition, and so and so. What are the conclusions of the common institutional framework on immunity today, honourable colleagues? Well, first of all, there is no regularity and there is no justification for establishing different levels of immunity for certain officials. For example, KNAB has administrative responsibility, the Security Police has no administrative responsibility because of immunity. There are no clear and understandable criteria for initiating criminal proceedings in certain cases against certain officials. It's all stunned! The criteria for the extent of immunity by the severity of a criminal offence are inexplicable as, for example, the Ombudsman can only be detained for serious and particularly serious offences without a specific authorisation. The mechanism for protecting the immunity of officials in certain cases is disproportionately high for certain officials. Well, for example, judges of the Supreme Court decide on search and forced return for judges and the Ombudsman, but no decision is made with respect to Members of the Saeima, Ministers and everyone else. Some of the concepts used, such as ‘forced arrival’, ‘retention’, ‘visiting, removal of property’, are intended as criminal immunity, while they do not fully justify the extension or exclusion of that immunity from the administrative procedure. Well, for example, many of you have been involved in the local government or the local police. A lot can be done by the local police. What are we offering to you, fellow Members? We offer you to really support this draft law and to launch a complex, comprehensive debate to address this issue. Otherwise, it is not possible to decide on the substance of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U17	Thank you, Member Elksniņš. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner. She will speak against the referral of the draft law to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U18	Good morning, dear colleagues! Mr. Elksniņš really talked a lot, talked a lot about both the sympathy and what we have decided in the Legal Commission. Therefore, before I turn to draft laws, I would like to say that I really have sympathy for all Members who work hard and professionally, and Mr Elksniņš is certainly among them. And these prepared draft laws... is really a great job done. However, we may not be so naive and look at the works rather than listen to the beautiful words! And the works are such that a few weeks ago, when we presented the amendments to the Satversme on the abolition of administrative immunity, the group represented by Mr. Elksniņš voted against. And also in the Legal Commission, when we were preparing for this amendment to the Constitution at the Saeima sitting, the group represented by Mr. Elksniņš voted against. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Elksniņš: “There was an alternative offer, Inese!” ) And today these allegedly alternative proposals are for the very same purpose: to slash the Legal Commission in the very great twilight of various issues of immunity and officials. And I agree that this needs to be examined. However, we also understand that something can only be done if we take a step in a structured way. And the Legal Commission also said in the previous sitting that it will look at the issue of immunity, but the immunity of judges, prosecutors and other officials of the judiciary cannot be seen if we have not involved the Council for the Judiciary (this is the judiciary!) . And we will do it - the Council for the Judiciary will be involved. If Members had made a political climax on their own initiative, this would not, in my opinion, be correct against the judiciary. So I admire Mr. Elksniņš's ability to work. And I believe that he could also write us a new draft Constitution (Dep. Elksniņš: “I’m ready!” ), without immunity, and to say that this is the right path that we are going on today. But I'm also a realist. Every amendment to the Constitution can only be accepted if it has the support of two thirds of the votes in three readings. We have raised the issue of immunity, both in criminal law and in administrative terms, not only once. And those of us who were also in the previous parliamentary term remember very well that it was precisely the examination of this complex issue that did not allow us to waive our immunity from the falls. I very much hope that we are prepared to waive administrative immunity, that this is the real will of Members, with a two-thirds majority. And if we drown the Legal Commission today with another ten draft laws, of course we will come to this decision sometime, only it will be much, much longer, harder, because the Legal Commission is working very professionally. We do not look at any draft laws in the same way, we invite experts, and the experts will have something to say about all these draft laws. The question is: do we want to ask the Legal Commission to do so today? Do you trust and first change the Constitution on the issue of administrative immunity for Members, set an example, tell judges and all other officials of public administration and judiciary that we want to involve them in the issue of immunity? I hope that this will lead us to a very good solution. And, of course, Mr Elksniņš, I once again express my admiration and thanks for the work you have done, and I think this study will certainly be useful for the work of the Legal Commission. But I call for this and future draft laws not to be handed over at the moment and not to support their transfer to the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U19	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against passing on the draft law to commissions. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft laws “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by Members Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkina, Zemlinska and Orlova to all parliamentary committees, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 49, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. According to the parliamentary roll of order, one Member can speak "for", one is "no" to refer the draft law to the commission. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. He will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U20	Good morning, dear colleagues! It is known that the scope of immunity of state officials is very different, therefore the group SASKAJA calls for the arrangement and waiver of immunity in cases of administrative violations, as well as in criminal cases for members of the Saeima, as well as other public officials – judges, prosecutors, the Ombudsman, the staff of the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption and other services. We believe that public officials should not remain unpunished for administrative offences, nor should they remain privileged in the criminal proceedings in which they are involved. Constitutional equality requires the same level of rights and obligations for all persons. This must be respected both in the adoption, application and interpretation of laws. This principle does not, of course, exclude the possibility of ensuring a different legal framework for certain categories of persons in different situations, but the granting of absolute privileges to certain groups of persons in a number of cases in fact provides an opportunity to avoid prosecution and constitutes an anti-constitutional and archaic advantage. I would remind you that indeed during the 11th Saeima, in 2012, our group proposed to waive immunity in cases of administrative offences for Members, judges, prosecutors, KNAB staff, special services and other public officials, as well as to exclude cases where the authorisation of the Saeima would be necessary for the prosecution or search of a Member or a judge. Although this proposal was not supported at the time, the Group considers that it is possible to address the problem now, given the sudden wish of the majority of the Saeima to resume the discussion on this issue. We believe that it is not possible to discuss this subject seriously within the framework of a single draft law and that the problem must be addressed conceptually, systemically and in a complex manner. Thank you for your attention. I call on you to vote in favour!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U21	Thank you. ‘ No one has applied to speak against’. Do Members object to this draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law tabled by Members Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 51, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Court” submitted by the Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U22	Dear colleagues, At present, the law provides for a very different approach to the issue of the prosecution of Members of the Saeima and individual public officials of administrative responsibility, criminal liability and criminal proceedings to be carried out. For example, judges, including judges and prosecutors of the Constitutional Court, are called to disciplinary responsibility for the administrative violation committed. The consent of the Saeima shall be required for the prosecution of members of the Saeima and of the Ombudsman. On the other hand, in the case of officials of national security authorities, the regulation provides for an opportunity for the head of the national safety authority to give an opinion on whether there are circumstances which exclude the responsibility of the officer or employee under control. Criminal prosecutions and criminal activities may be initiated against a member of the Saeima only with the consent of the Saeima. Only the Prosecutor General may initiate criminal proceedings against the judge and the Ombudsman, but they may be arrested and prosecuted only with the consent of the Saeima. At the same time, neither the President of Latvia, nor the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, nor the parliamentary secretaries nor other public officials shall have any immunity from administrative liability. In many European countries, with the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary, it is increasingly said that there is no place for the Institute of Immunity in the 21st century. It can be pointed out that parliamentary immunity has not been established at all in certain European countries, such as the Netherlands. The constitutional principle of state action based on respect for the rule of law provides for the possibility of adopting a differentiated legal framework, but it must be based only on an objective situation, with a clear focus on the principle of justice and the requirements of fairness, as well as on the need to ensure equality of individuals before the law. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U23	Thank you. ‘ No one has applied to speak against the referral of the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Court” submitted by the Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 18, no, 51, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemļinskas and Orlova refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” to the Legal Commission and establish that it is the committee responsible. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. He will talk about handing over the draft law to the commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Šadurskis: “Can’t for everyone at once?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U24	Dear colleagues, The principle of equality laid down in the Constitution is violated when a certain group of people whose legal norm is applicable, compared to other addressees of the same legal norm, are subject to different treatment to the circumstances that such unequal treatment is not objectively justified. The head of the Latvian Association of Administrative Judges, Mr. Neimanis, has given a positive assessment of the idea of lifting immunity for judges due to administrative violations committed. He pointed out (I will quote): “We, the judges, are ashamed that we have been disfellowshipped from the rest of the company on matters of administrative misconduct. Such a privilege is no longer justified in a democratic society. We have raised this issue since 2010, but Parliament has done nothing to do with it. They are only empty speeches, and unduly linked to the immunity of Members.’ End of quote. Similar findings have been made, among other things, in the judgement of the Lithuanian Constitutional Court of 28 May 2010, which recognised that administrative immunity with regard to policemen in the state service is contrary to the constitution. It should be noted that various regulations are also intended to inform the public about administrative offences committed by public officials. The public does not know at all about the administrative violations committed by judges, prosecutors and officials and employees of state security institutions, but the Saeima will inform the public about the administrative violations committed by members of the Saeima and the Ombudsman by giving its consent to the administrative liability of the said state officials. A partial solution regarding the prosecution of state officials to administrative liability is provided for in the law “On the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials”, which will be discussed in more detail by my colleague Andrejs Elksniņš, but this draft law also provides that only about violations of this law have an obligation for the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau and the State Revenue Service to inform the public by placing information on the relevant institution’s website. In order to increase public confidence in public officials and to ensure greater transparency, it is necessary to lay down the following procedures for administrative offences and criminal offences for all public officials, together with the abolition of immunity from certain public officials (provocation of administrative liability and criminal liability, as well as of relevant criminal acts). I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U25	Thank you. ‘ No one has applied to speak against’. Do Members have objections? And the objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” presented by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 52, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members request a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” presented by the Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemļinsk and Orlov, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 47, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapakina, Zemļinska and Orlova refer the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law” to the Commission for the Prevention of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption and that it should be the committee responsible. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš. He will talk about handing over the draft law to the commission. ( Medications.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U26	Deal it out, yeah... Oat!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U27	Mr. Elksniņš, talking to the hall is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U28	I'm already debating.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U29	Your time goes: it's already been 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U30	Dear colleagues, Parliament, by rejecting the previous draft laws that we have proposed, has to a large extent already shown that dealing with immunity in respect of Members of the Saeima, and only in that part, so as not to require Parliament's consent to call Members of the Saeima under administrative responsibility... shows only that Members do not want to deal with these issues in a complex, institutional manner and taking into account all the immunity criteria that coexist with each other in a single system. I would like to show you again. The amount of immunity of a member of the Cabinet. Well, guess what it is? Criminal procedural immunity for ministers - zero! Ministers may be held liable in criminal proceedings without any supervision mechanism from above. ( From the grass: “Bad! ” ) No decisions of the Supreme Court or acceptance of the Prosecutor General are required! For example, an inspector of the Teika district can do everything he wants with the Minister if the Minister commits a violation of rights. The same applies to ministers if they commit an administrative irregularity. The Minister may be forced to bring any authorised, even municipal police officer. If the Minister is unpopular and doesn't know him, then the Minister behind the jacket and on the street prove his personality! Ministers have no immunity. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “If you don’t know him!” ) The President's immunity is again the same. Same thing! Absolutely the same thing, only the prosecution of the President of Latvia requires the support of two thirds of Parliament. Well, I think it's generally acceptable. Let us assume that the President is still known. Now I want to tell you what happens to the prosecutors. The prosecutor commits an administrative infringement. At best, a protocol is drawn up for this administrative violation, because if a prosecutor shows his certificate, the policeman will cross the road - he would rather not see that prosecutor next to him on the road. But if a prosecutor commits an administrative violation, let's accept, the prosecutor drives a drunk (Intersaxes.) ... The prosecutor drives in a drink, doesn't bring him under administrative responsibility. Don't call! Public prosecutors have no administrative responsibility at all as an institute. The Latvian Administrative Violations Code provides for more than 300 violations; it describes in which cases if a person commits a violation... Don't call! The law records: the prosecutor shall be punished disciplinaryly for administrative offences committed. Discipline! The Saeima Member, Spolitis, is coming to speak right away. He was driving in a drink, he got everything! Article, fine, disqualification, prison... He's still working in Parliament! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Sitting in the Saeima and getting money!” ) If the prosecutor does all this, he has nothing. Discipline responsibility... If the Prosecutor General is evaluated and dismissed, he will be dismissed. It's left. But fines, prison sentences and everything else are absolutely nothing. Dear colleagues, support the progress of that draft law. The administrative responsibility of prosecutors lies in the extended interpretation of the anti-constitutional Institute into modern democracy. Why are they more equal than everyone else in such a system, when a person does not have administrative responsibility when committing an administrative offence? We do not see any justification for this. All the more... We really... Well, there's a very complicated question... Mrs. Lībiņa had come before... You're the fifth, the tenth... As you vote there, look... Trace-red and everything else... Listen to me! There are concrete proposals. There are certain draft laws, there is a specific opinion that should be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U31	Thank you. The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis. He has applied to speak against the referral of the draft law to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U32	Highly honored Saeima! The honourable colleague from the opposition tried to convince us that we now need to review the whole legislative package only in order to waive administrative immunity. Our colleague, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, has explained to us very clearly and convincingly how we can deal with this issue step by step, but in any case we need two thirds of the votes - the majority vote of the Saeima. At the moment, the audiences here, too, can certainly not understand why two thirds of our colleagues are voting 'no' while... Here, one by one, there are different draft laws against which we are therefore voting. So in this case... Regarding your hypothetical case, a possible prosecutor who had drunk and committed an offence ( Of the medicine: “It is!” In this case, you can also throw a stone in my direction... The prosecutor is simply dismissed for such an infringement. ( From the hall: “The same should have happened to you! ” ) Point! There's nothing more to decide here. Second. In this case, as we have already reminded us today, we are going by step and remember that in this case, instead of taking draft laws from each other and considering these changes... Let us remember that only last week, following the recommendation of the Association of the Regions of Latvia to waive immunity, the parliamentary group SASKAŅA in corporation voted 'no'. I also call for this time to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U33	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which was tabled by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 50, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Does Member Skujiņš want to say something about the procedure? Looks like he doesn't want to. The next item is the draft law on the Ombudsman's law tabled by Members Elksniņš, Agešins, Potapkins, Zemļinskis and Orlovs. The Saeima Bureau proposes that this draft law be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Ombudsman” presented by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemļinskas and Orlova refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Security Institutions” to the Commission for the Prevention of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption and that it should be the committee responsible. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš. He has applied to speak “for”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Šadurskis: “Hello, you don’t get tired?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U34	Dear colleagues, The extent of immunity with regard to the staff of the national safety authorities is, in my opinion, outside any understandable boundaries, and I will perhaps read to you what is written in the law. The scope of criminal immunity of officials of state security institutions - the Constitutional Protection Bureau, the Security Police, the Military Intelligence and Security Service. None of you have that! Officials of the national security authorities may be detained, brought in force, subjected to search, search or inspect their residential or service premises, personal or service vehicle, as well as prosecute against criminal liability only with the consent of the Prosecutor General. Where an official is caught in the commission of a criminal offence, such consent shall not be required, but the Prosecutor General and the Head of the national security authority or office shall be informed. It is clear from Section 18, Paragraph 7 of the Law on State Security Institutions that officials of State security institutions in the territory of the State shall not be held criminally liable without the consent of the Prosecutor General; they may not be subject to detention, including administrative detention, search, forced arrival. They shall not be subject to the loading or inspection of their accommodation or service spaces, personal or service vehicles. Criminal procedural restrictions on these officials shall not apply only when they have been caught in the commission of a criminal offence. What is the extent of administrative immunity with regard to the staff of national security authorities? Where a competent national authority or its official finds that an official or servant of a national safety authority has committed an administrative irregularity, it shall, within 24 hours, inform in writing the Head of the national safety authority to which the opinion is to be delivered whether there are circumstances which exclude the responsibility of the official or staff member concerned. Dear colleagues, we really live in a political country. The extent of immunity of executive officers exercising authority over other officials, against the legislator’s representatives, is unlimited in so far as there is no mechanism for detecting and effectively monitoring the application of those rules in real life. We therefore have a simple situation in which responsible politicians who create one or the other commissions, say, under the influence of the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission or the National Security Commission, monitor and determine under what circumstances and what things should be investigated, what kind of entrepreneurs should be outlawed, and so on. Dear colleagues, if you are so honest in all these speeches, then I really call on you to review and decide on the existence of an Institute of Immunity as a whole, not to dispel a single criterion.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U35	Thank you, Member Elksniņš. ‘ No one has applied to speak against’. Do Members object to this draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft laws “Amendment to the Law on State Security Institutions” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption presented by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova be referred to the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Prevention and Combating Corruption” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, tabled by Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemļinsk and Orlov, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 53, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova should refer the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” to the Legal Commission and establish that it is the committee responsible. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš. He has applied to speak about the handing over of the draft law to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U36	Dear colleagues, The specific draft law and the next draft law – the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” – show the criteria for which it will be possible to disclose to the public... those officials who have committed administrative offences or who have been involved in criminal offences. We propose to incorporate into the law a provision providing for waiver of immunity, including administrative immunity, which is now the subject of debate. In the Legal Commission, we have already discussed this issue in part. The public should be informed of a criminal offence committed by a public official in criminal proceedings. We offer a version which states that state and municipal institutions are obliged to inform the public about criminal offences committed by state officials in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers. In other words, the public has the right to know when a public official has committed a criminal offence. The information must be placed on the website of the relevant institution on the Internet. Declarations of state officials shall be made available to the State Revenue Service. We want information on criminal offences committed by public officials to be also available. As state officials, we were assumed to consider all officials listed in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials. In particular, state and municipal institutions shall place on their websites the following information on state officials: the name, surname, position, criminal activities of the public official, the nature of the offence and the time of its commission, the decision on the commencement of prosecution, the decision on the termination of criminal proceedings, the effective part of the judgment. State and municipal authorities shall place information on their websites on the Internet after the relevant rulings have entered into force. Those conditions shall not apply to offences committed by officials of national security authorities who are subject to the criteria of concealment of identity laid down in the Law on State Secrets. Dear colleagues, If we also debate today at first reading on the issue of the abolition of administrative immunity for Members of the Saeima, but administrative immunity for Members of the Saeima... One of the criteria also served to inform the public about this, i.e. about each case... The public was given the opportunity to be convinced that there was a kind of coercion against an official - either administrative or criminal. We propose that if we exclude one or the other of the immunity criteria, but in parallel to creating a mechanism that would ensure that all the anonymous Members of the Saeima who would have caused road accidents are published. Their names would be disclosed to the public, and the public could assess the extent to which the official or member of the Saeima has acted legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U37	Thank you, Member Elksniņš. ‘ No one has applied to speak against the referral of the draft law to the commission. Do Members object to this draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” tabled by the Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 39, for - 13. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemļinskas and Orlovs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 20, for - 30. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlova be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and that it be the committee responsible for the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of state officials. Do Members have objections? Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” submitted by Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Orlov to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 49, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Society” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next section of the agenda is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. For unpaid leave granted to Member Maris Kučinskis from 27 October to 29 October this year. Member Maris Kučinskis has asked to grant him unpaid leave from October 27 to 29. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and you, my fellow Members, are being informed today at the Saeima sitting. The next item is the roll-out of unpaid leave for Member Armandas Krauzem on 28 and 29 October this year. Member Armands Krauze has asked him to grant unpaid leave on October 28 and 29 of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and my task is to inform you of this decision. The next item is the one on unpaid leave granted to Roman Money from 27 October to 29 October. Member Roman Money asked him to grant unpaid leave from October 27 to 29. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and you are informed of this decision. And for the unpaid leave granted to Arvīds Platoper on October 29th this year. Member Arvīds Platopers has asked him to grant unpaid leave on October 29, this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and you are informed of it at the Saeima sitting today. Dear colleagues, Before we start to discuss the next item on the agenda, we need to decide yet more on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is asking to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” drawn up by the Saeima in the agenda of today’s sitting at first reading without re-examination by the Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. On the other hand, Members Rūdrnieks, Silver, Dombrava, Bite, Elksniņš, Stepanenko, Kūtris, Pimenovs, Kols, Gaidis Berzins and Cilevičs are asking for amendments to the agenda of today's sitting and to include the draft decision of the Saeima “Declaration on the Protection of Minorities in the Field of Children's Rights abroad”. Do Members object to such amendments to the agenda? Members object. That is why we have to make this distinction by voting. Please call me! We will vote on amendments to the agenda of today's sitting, including the draft decision of the Saeima on the protection of minors in the field of children's rights abroad! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The order of business has been amended. On the other hand, Members Ribakov, Agešin, Jakilov, Stepanenko, Cilevič, Adamson, Tutin, Pimenov, Tretjak and Orlov are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of today's sitting "On the election of a Member of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit". Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. In addition, Members Ribakov, Agešins, Jakilovs, Stepanenko, Cilevičs, Adamson, Tutin, Pimenov, Tretjak and Orlov are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of today's sitting "On the election of a Member of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs". Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. And MEPs Smilten, Shadurski, Abu Meri, Judins and Chigan are asking for amendments to the agenda of today's, 29 October, and for the agenda item 45 Amendments to the Competition Law to be moved before item 27 of the agenda. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Let’s vote! Something is not good there!” ) No, honourable colleagues, it is a little late for this proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “How late is it? Three seconds or half a second?’ ) I am sorry, the roll of order of the Saeima for any discussion with the chairman of the sitting is prohibited. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting to examine the draft agenda section. Draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U38	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law”. A total of 23 proposals have been submitted to the Commission. The proposal is a proposal from the Legal Office which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U39	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U40	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau on the composition and functioning of the Competition Council. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U41	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U42	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U44	So, we're looking for Proposal No 4... 4. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U45	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U46	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U47	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U48	6. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Putra. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U50	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U51	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U52	8 / 8 - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Putra. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U53	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U54	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U55	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U56	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Putra. Partly supported and included in proposal 7, as well as in proposal 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U57	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U58	11. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Putra. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U59	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U60	12. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U61	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U62	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission supports and incorporates proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U63	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U64	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Some support has been given and included in proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U65	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U66	The proposal 15, which also includes two previous proposals, is a proposal from the committee responsible, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U67	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U68	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U69	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U70	17. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U71	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U72	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U73	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U74	19. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partly supported and included in proposal 20 and proposal 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U75	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U76	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Putra. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U77	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U78	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U79	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U80	22. - the proposal by Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Putra, which is partly supported and included in the proposal 23.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U81	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U82	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a Commission proposal containing a previous proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U83	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U84	24. ... Let's get it right there. Oh, no, that was the last one. Yes, so all the proposals have been examined, and I call on you to vote in favour of adopting the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U85	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Competition Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - no, for - 5. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U86	In the Commission, we will wait until Thursday, 12 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U87	Until November 12th. Members shall not object. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U88	Six proposals have been received on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security”, which has been declared urgent. 1. is a proposal of the Social and Labour Commission, which intends to clarify the title. The Commission was unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U89	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U90	2. is the proposal of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission on clarification in the introductory part of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U91	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U92	3. - The proposal by R. Uzulnieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, which has been unanimously supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U93	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U94	4. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Reinis Uzulnieks, who has been rejected by the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U95	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U96	5. is a proposal by Sylvia Šymfas, member of the Saeima, which provided for the right to process information system information also to the Latvian Municipal Union and local and regional municipalities. The proposal has been partly supported and included in the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U97	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U98	6. is a proposal from the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. The Commission unanimously supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U99	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U100	All the proposals have been examined. Please adopt the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U101	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending civil law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U102	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law "Amendments to the Civil Law" for the third reading and will report to you on each proposal separately. 1. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U103	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U104	2. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U105	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U106	3. - The proposal from Member Hosama Abu Meri. That and the next two proposals from other Members are not supported. The proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U107	Let's start a debate. Name in the debate for Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U108	Hello, dear colleagues! I will talk about proposal 3, but also proposals 4 and 5 are the same. I understand the desire for the state to play a more active role in the protection of children's rights enshrined in this law, especially when it comes to guardianship, on custody; it is a welcome thing. But we have to be very careful when a country has its own power... In its mandate, a norm is introduced whereby the country takes very serious action in situations of biological families or well-established family relationships. And often... When we look at the active intervention of the social services of the Nordic countries in particular families, we often say: 'Well, that's some exaggeration, it doesn't really look good!' It seems to me that the amendments to the law we intend to make will lead us in a similar direction, and when we read every amendment very carefully, we should assess it from a purely human point of view, from the way in which a child grows in a family. The specific amendment provides for the exclusion of the fourth paragraph of Article 169 of the Civil Law. This part has been incorporated into this law a few years ago... Adopted three years ago. And there was a lot of discussion back then, too. And practice has proven that this norm actually works badly. Not in all cases, but it creates the opportunity to work badly. In the legal commission, when analysing our proposal, experts also said that there are problems in this provision. Imagine, colleagues: if a child has minor parents and is in a situation where such an older child is to be adopted, then this consent can be given not by the parent but by the orphan's court of the place of residence. Second moment. Also, the guardian who takes care of this child is not entitled to say no, may not be given adoption because, see, if the guardian refuses to allow adoption without an important reason, the orphan court may say: “No, the child is to be adopted!” And in our commission, the Legal Commission, there were also concrete factual documents on the table that, in such a situation, the orphan's court sent a letter to the guardian stating: “Whether you adopt it or we adopt it in a forced manner, that is, let us take it away from you.” I understand that there is one other thing here, and many people will say, “This norm is very good, it should be preserved because, say, the guardian is interested in getting money.” But there is, of course, a difference in why, in a situation where a person is a guardian, he can receive social assistance from the State, whereas in a situation where he becomes a parent, adoptor of a child, this supplement is no longer available. Consequently, I call on honourable colleagues to consider this question: in situations where relations between a child and a parent or a child and a substitute parent have developed very good, should it really be for the local authority to give such a right to decide instead? Thank you. And I call for support for proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are less than three minutes to break. Obviously, we must continue the debate after a break... ( Interference from the drug.) Member Bite says she'll have enough. Name of Member Inga Bite, but please watch the clock!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U110	Dear colleagues, In order for us to be able to pass through the feeling of work that has been done following the vote on this proposal, I would like to add to Mr Kūtra's mention that Article 21, paragraph a, of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, requires Member States to ensure that adoption of a child takes place only in circumstances in which stakeholders have given their informed consent to adoption. The fourth part of Section 169 of the Civil Law currently in force is contrary to this norm of international law, as provides for the right of the orphan court to take a decision on the transfer of the child to adoption instead of living, healthy and operative parents and guardians. In fact, it is a forced or arbitrary adoption that we are going to condemn ourselves in other countries. Question: "How to deal with cases where the law currently states that without an important reason you are refusing to transfer a child to adoption? For these cases, the law already has a solution. And this option is either the withdrawal of custody rights for the parent or the removal of the guardian from the performance of his duties. Where there is no reason to withdraw the custody or to remove the guardian, there shall also be no reason to transfer the child to adoption against the will of the parent or guardian. I therefore ask for support for this proposal, as well as for proposals 4 and 5, to ensure that the Latvian Civil Law is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U111	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U112	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, there was indeed a wide-ranging debate at the Legal Commission on these and future proposals in several sittings. And we asked the Ministry of Justice to meet together in a working group with the Ministry of Welfare, the Ombudsman, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, experts, non-governmental organisations and also Members who had these proposals. And the task force had also debated a great deal. And when the Ministry of Justice reported on the results of the work of the working group at the Legal Commission, the Ministry of Justice asked for this proposal, which has no clear support, but does not support it at the third reading because, on the one hand, there are well thought arguments, but often there are situations where adoption does not agree, perhaps due to material circumstances only, or perhaps because one biological parent, who does not really care about the child, hopes that in the future, when the child will reach adulthood, he will pay support to him. And there are other cases. The third reading, colleagues, is a reading which, by its very nature, should not include new such essential things. And this regulation has in principle been in force since 1993. At the moment, when it listens emotionally to the debate, I understand that you think you can support it. However, we heard from the Legal Commission the Ministry responsible - the Ministry of Justice - who has worked on this issue and who has also received the commission's task of continuing. There are indeed a number of openings in the civil law, and we will certainly return to it again. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal to be rejected, 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U113	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - That's Mr. Hosama Abu Meri's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 41 (Applause) , against -2, abstaining - 36. The proposal is supported. I understand, therefore, that Amendments 4 and 5 are no longer to be voted on, because they are similar. Dear colleagues, Obviously, we will continue the examination of the draft law after a break. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! As long as the results of the registration are collected, the name of the notice to the Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U114	Hello! In view of the sudden and sudden announcement by the long secretary of the Zolitude tragedy committee that he no longer wants to be a secretary, members of the committee are invited to the Red Hall for a short sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U115	Thank you. Name for the statement to the Member Gaid Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U116	Dear colleagues from the Legal Commission! See you for a short sitting in five minutes!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U117	Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U118	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Hosam Abu Meri... ( From the drug, ‘ I am! ’) ) is, Solvita Aboltiņa, Ringold Balodis... Sergey Dolgopolov, Raivis Dzintars, Armands Krauze, Maris Kučinskis, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere... Yes, Sergey Mirsky... Yes, Ināra Mūrniece, Roman Money, Imants Debtor... is Arvīds Platopers, Sergey Potapkins, Romualds Ražuks, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U119	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U120	Dear colleagues, the clock is 11.00, but my eye is telling me that absolutely we do not have a quorum. Perhaps you can ask for a call again so that Members can hear. Dear colleagues, I recall that before the break, we started to look at the draft law on civil law amendments at third reading and we were informed by Ms Inese Lībiņa-Egnere on behalf of the Legal Commission. And we got to Amendment 6...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U121	Third.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U122	No, until the third on which we voted, and then 4 and 5 were no longer put to the vote, because they were the same. So we're going on with 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U123	Yeah, thank you. I shall continue to report on the draft law. 6. is a proposal from the Legal Office relating to proposal 7. It changes the structure of the article and is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U124	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U125	7. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau is also of a technical nature and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U126	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U127	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U128	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U129	9. is a proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides that custody rights may also be terminated in cases where the parent abuses his rights by failing to comply with a judicial decision in a case arising from custody or access rights, where this causes serious harm to the child and where there are no other obstacles to the exercise of the child's care by the parent. In the Commission, this has been supported following a long debate and the report of the working group, and this also reflects the strengthening of the case-law of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U130	Members agree. I'm sorry, I really didn't hear that signal. Inga Bite took part in the debate. Let's start a debate. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U131	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to agree that this text is a compromise that has been the result of long and long negotiations and the work of the working group. But not every compromise is good, not every compromise is valuable, and not every compromise is needed. This provision in our judicial system is something completely lacking. This is a way of ensuring the enforcement of a judicial decision on custody and access rights by removing a child. It must be said immediately that this is not the only instrument used to enforce the court ruling. We will also see amendments to the Civil Procedure Law in this package, where there are other instruments and mechanisms to force the parents to comply with the court ruling. The Civil Procedure Law provides for an opportunity for the bailiff to engage in these relations, to clarify the day-to-day regime of the child, to catch this child either on the way to kindergarten or school or on the way to home to ensure contact with the other parent. It provides for the right for the bailiff to even break the door to enter the apartment and to ensure the enforcement of this judgment and the exercise of the right of access. No matter how drastic this may sound, it may be justified in situations where a child is manipulated to actually cross the other parent. However, this proposal is a step further, with the care rights being withdrawn from the parent. Yes, the proposal provides for this right to be passed on to the other parent, but not always to the parent who wants to make contact, it can really be a good parent on a daily basis and a good one and enough care for this child. Therefore, colleagues, yes, the enforcement of the court ruling must be ensured, but it must be ensured by the state by means of state resources and by means of state coercion mechanisms, not by threatening the child's arrest. That is why I am asking not to support Amendment 9 and to vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U132	Thank you. There will be a debate on the name of the Member, Gayd Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U133	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I will, however, allow myself to clarify what my colleague, Inga Betes, said here. The proposal of the Legal Commission refers to the fact that custody rights may also be terminated in cases where the parent abuses his rights without complying with a judicial decision in a case arising from custody or access rights, where this causes serious harm to the child and where there are no other obstacles to the exercise of child care by the parent. So, in this case, we are talking about the fact that this rule can only be applied in cases where the abuse of an elder is found, where it causes serious harm to the child and there are no other obstacles to the implementation of child care by the parent. So these are, in fact, prerequisites. Who appreciates them? First of all, they are judged by their orphanage. We have also incorporated into the Commission the amendments to the Barents' Law, which provide for such a function for the orphanage court. As we know, these issues are dealt with by a court of general jurisdiction whose decisions can be appealed against. I call for this to be taken into account. Here, colleagues have said that only disputes about the exercise of rights of access could be the basis for the withdrawal of a child. No, that's not meant! It is my duty to explain this. If, for example, there is a dispute between parents about the right of access to the child, then initially the dispute may have been settled in court and the court has made a ruling. And if one of the parents may fail to comply with this decision, first of all, the parent concerned also has the opportunity to go to court to review this right of access (e.g. the right to meet a child at certain times or in a place). Such a mechanism already exists in the law and should certainly be used. And it should be said once again that in such cases, it is precisely the factor of abuse that must be assessed as a prerequisite for implementing this rule. I therefore call for support for the proposal from the Legal Commission. Let us be aware of the diversity of situations in life and, unfortunately, the fact that parents or one parent abuse their rights! This is clearly contrary to the best interests of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U134	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U135	Dear colleagues, I really also call for a look at what Mr Bērziņš has just said, because on behalf of the Commission, I would also like to say that this provision of law is in the best interests of the child. And the situations we heard about at the sitting of the Legal Commission - that parents take their personal relationship very cruelly at the expense of their children... Children grow up, children have to meet both parents, this is very important! And if a court has decided how and under what circumstances a child has the right to meet a father or a mother, that court judgment must be enforced. This Article shall not apply to the withdrawal of custody rights. The wrong information has been said here. The Article shall apply to the interruption and to the handing over of the parent who executes the judgment. That is why, so that they can both come to mind a little bit, I apologise for such a statement. The removal of the child to the other side of Latvia, hiding, not showing, turning on in the apartment, driving away from kindergarten more quickly just to pay some kind of revenge to your former partner - if adult people are unable to sort out their relationship, this is definitely not the way we would like to tolerate in the Republic of Latvia. And, as I said earlier, this specific proposal reflects the case-law of the courts, in practice. In such cases, the courts really appreciate the best interests of the child, or whether he or she has abused it. It is not about some broken cars, delayed trolleybuses, or other circumstances, or reasons why children have not been able to get somewhere. This is about badness, conscious badness - often with the intention to hide the child from the other parent, who has the right of access. I call on you to support this really very long-established proposal from the Legal Commission resulting from the compromises.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U136	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 22, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U137	10. is the proposal of the bailiff Mārīte Seile, who specifies what to do if both parents lose custody. In other words, the child is placed under custody, or the orphan’s court decides on another form of extra-family care. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U138	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U139	11. There is also a proposal by the bailiff Mārīte Seile, who excludes regulation that does not work in practice, namely, the obligation of the surviving parent to inform the orphan court about going to a new marriage. And this is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U140	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U141	12. - the proposal by Mārīte Seile, the Acting Minister for Justice, which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U142	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Ms Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U143	Dear colleagues, There are two situations where guardians can be appointed to the child in a will. One thing is when someone wishes a minor a child something. Then he says: “For this treasure I want it and it to be carried out under guardianship.” But there is another case when parents wish or indicate in the will who should be the guardian of their children after their death in preparation for their possible day of death. The previous regulation of the Civil Law provides that the orphan court examines only the guardian appointed in the will by someone else but does not examine the guardian appointed and selected by the parent of the child. This situation is justified, because the parent is the one who takes responsibility for his child and who is also entitled to determine if the parent dies himself. These technical amendments, as if technical, provide for the addition of Article 232 of the Civil Law, and in fact this means that the guardians appointed in the parental will will also need to pass the tests of the orphanage. Such regulation is not necessary and is not justified in my view. If, for any reason, the guardian appointed in the will is not valid and is unable to perform the duties of guardian, he may be removed from his post. However, at the first moment, the will of the parents must come into effect without further examination by the public authorities. Therefore, I would ask you not to support Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U144	Thank you. The floor in the debate is for the Member, Mr Barzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U145	Colleagues! The Commission also had discussions on this proposal. Among other things, we have analysed such an example. A relative has been identified as guardian by his parents in their will. At that time, there were no obstacles to this relative to fulfil his guardian’s duties when the death of his parents occurred. However, after some time - when this death occurs to the parent or parent and this will is revealed - it has been found that this guardian, for example, is in prison. In such a situation, would it not, however, be the duty of the State to verify whether that guardian can actually fulfil his obligations? We think it would be. And I would like to emphasise that, at this point in time, the law really provides that in all cases where guardians are identified in the will, this examination, if it could be said, is more or less formal, with the aim of ensuring the best interests of the children, but at the same time of preventing persons such as, for example, the one who is in prison or who, for example, has managed to commit a criminal offence during this period. a direct crime against another child. I therefore call for support to be given to 12. - a proposal from the bailiff of the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U146	Thank you. There will be a debate on the name of Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U147	Dear colleagues, I did not want to talk a lot about this issue, but, as the chairman of the committee tried to explain, I will clarify a little bit. First. The civil law states that if the guardian is temporarily prevented from taking custody (i.e. he may also be in custody), the orphan court shall appoint a temporary guardian until he is prevented from doing so. That is also the solution possible. Secondly. The fact that a person is in custody does not mean that he is a criminal, because the final court ruling has not yet entered into force, and it may therefore be that he is released in a week or even a day and has the full right to carry out the biological will of parents, as expressed in the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U148	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U149	Dear colleagues, This specific proposal is of such a technical nature that it clarifies what has already been said at previous reading that we need to focus much more on the assessment of guardians. And at second reading, you have already confirmed that Article 242 defines a much wider range of persons who cannot be guardians. I would also like to say to you, on behalf of the Commission, that this concerns persons who have been punished for crimes involving violence and the threat of violence, regardless of criminality. Persons who have been punished for crimes against morality and sexual integrity, regardless of the deletion of criminality... And these people who can't be guardians on the basis of law... The bar tribunal should check whether the persons indicated in the will can or may not perform the duties of guardian. This is an objective test and, of course, we have discussed a lot about it. And it's not... No court of orphanage will want to decide in any way to the benefit of the child, but wills become very different periods of time, and people are not always changing for good. People tend to change like this - to lead to criminal offences. And the Ministry of Welfare also told me that there have been wills to be appointed, I'm sorry, their bottle brother about the possible guardian of wills. The Legal Commission considers that in all such cases the legislator is obliged to protect children from it. I therefore call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U150	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the 12th proposal submitted by Mārīte Seile, the bailiff of the Minister of Justice! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 23, for - 7. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U151	13. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U152	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U153	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U154	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U155	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Partly supported, included in proposal 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U156	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U157	16. - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides for the renewal of the historical version of the Civil Law: “If orders left by parents do not serve the interests of the defendant, the guardian may, with the consent of the orphan court, depart from them.” This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U158	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U159	17. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which provides: where the guardian has attracted other persons to the lien, he shall be responsible for the activities of those persons. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U160	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U161	18. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U163	19. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister of Justice, Mārīte Seile, which is a clarification of the terminology in order to ensure consistent use of terminology in the Civil Law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U164	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U165	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the bailiff Mārīte Seile, whose purpose is to ensure that the immovable property, which is recognised as an estate of an heir and consents to the state, by entering it in the land register, is transferred into state-owned property free of debt liabilities, burdens and ban notes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U166	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U167	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U169	22. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Related to the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Certificate of Succession. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U170	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U171	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It also relates to the implementation of this same Regulation. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U172	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U173	And finally 24. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U175	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Legal Commission to support the draft law at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U176	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading draft law amending the Civil Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - no, for - 17. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start to examine the next item on the agenda, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from five Members - the debtor, Mrs Bērzins, Mr Raivja Dzintars, Mr Stepanenko and Mr Silver - that they are withdrawing their signatures under the draft decision of the Saeima on the fulfilment of obligations under the 1963 Vienna Convention on consular relations, so that the existing signatures do not correspond to the rule of the Saeima and this draft decision is not being examined. The Saeima's Bureau has received a letter from the Legal Commission requesting that the agenda for today's sitting be amended and that it include a draft decision on the withdrawal of Inga Vanaga from the Central Electoral Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. And now we are moving to the next item on the agenda. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Bars’, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U177	Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is related to the civil law which has been examined. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Barents” has been examined by the Commission before the third reading. 1 is the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis, which has been partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U178	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U179	2. - The legal commission's proposal. The legal provision on the duty of members and employees of orphan courts to comply with the norms of professional ethics in the performance of their duties shall be specified once. It is foreseen that the standards of professional ethics of the employees of the orphan court will be established by the relevant municipal council or the relevant orphan court, in coordination with the municipal council. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U181	3. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. The orphan's court shall, at least once a year, provide the relevant municipal council with a report on its activities. And the review report can be published on the municipal website. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U183	4. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Provision shall be made for the duty of the municipality to provide targeted and organised advisory, educational and psychological support to the members of the orphan court in order to improve their professional competence and professional quality. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U184	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U185	5. - The legal commission's proposal. Technically. It's supported. The Chair of the sitting shall agree with the Members. 6. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. The requirements to be met by candidates for the post of President and Deputy Chairperson of the Court of First Instance shall be specified and shall provide that the requirements for education and length of service are higher than those of the candidate for the post of a member of the Court of First Instance. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U186	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U187	7. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Specifies the requirements for candidates for the position of the members of the family court. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U188	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U189	8 / 8 - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U190	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U191	9. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U192	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U193	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides for the duty of the orphan court to assess whether the parent abuses his rights, as well as to inform the bailiff of the results of the assessment or of the decisions taken if it has been received from the bailiff's statement that the child has not been found to have failed to comply with a judgment in a case arising from the right of custody within the time and place specified by the bailiff, or about the failure to comply with a judgment in a case arising from the right of access.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U194	Let's start a debate. The floor will be held for Ms Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U195	Dear colleagues, I will just remind you very briefly that this proposal is linked to what we talked about earlier, namely the suspension of custody rights in the event of failure to execute a judgment. But, as I said, judgments must be carried out in a different way. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the Commission, this proposal was initially not supported and that only by fraud... There's no... At the next meeting of the Commission, when there were more Members of the Unity than before, it was voted and received the Commission's support. I also ask you to think about this and to vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U196	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U197	Dear colleagues, Indeed, this proposal is linked to a proposal that has already been supported by the Civil Law and voted at final reading here in the Saeima, thirdly, here, and the Brunch Courts' Law is an accompanying procedural regulation for the orphanage to act on what documents are needed in this regard. Therefore, if we have supported the regulation of the Civil Law and supported the verification of this evil, then here also, in the Law of the Barents... The Commission has considered that such a proposal should be supported and supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U198	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U199	11. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulds Augulis, which provides for the right of the orphan court to send advice to a family doctor, psychologist or other specialist with whom the child has the right to maintain a personal relationship and direct contact, or the person with whom the child resides on a single farm. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U200	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U201	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U202	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U203	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U205	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal of a editorial nature coming from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U206	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U207	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U208	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U209	16. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U211	17 as well. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U212	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U213	18. - a proposal by the Legal Commission providing for a transitional period for the qualification requirements and length of service for members of the family court (i.e. increased by this law) and states that this new regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U214	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U215	19. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis, which clarifies the transitional provisions concerning the study programme for the members of the family courts. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U216	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U217	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Commission relating to the previously supported proposal on the procedure for determining the standard of professional ethics of orphans. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U218	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U219	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U220	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U221	22. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U222	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U223	And 23. - The proposal of the Legal Commission providing for a transitional period in respect of the obligation of municipalities to organise the following educational and advisory training: “The sixth paragraph of Section 5 of this Law shall enter into force on 1 April 2016.” It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U224	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U225	Thank you. All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U226	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Brunch Courts” in the third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - no, for - 17. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U227	This draft law, ‘Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law’, is also related to those examined above. 1. is the proposal of the bailiff Mārīte Seile, who states that a party may receive a part of the public fee paid back even if the settlement is concluded in the court of appeal, but only in the court of court where the settlement is concluded. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U228	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U229	2. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U230	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U231	3. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U233	4. - the proposal of the Legal Commission - specify that a copy of the decision must be sent within three days to the parties who have not been present at the time of the delivery of the decision and to the person to whom it relates. If an abbreviated decision has been issued, a copy of the full decision shall be sent within three days of the full decision being drawn up. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U235	5. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U236	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U237	6. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U238	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U239	7. - Legal Bureau's proposal, including editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U240	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U241	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U242	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U243	9. - the proposal of the bailiff Mārīte Seile by the Minister of Justice - provides for a shorter time limit in the best interests of the child for submitting written explanations to the appeal. In particular, cases relating to a child shall be brought within 15 days and not within 30 days of the date on which the copy of the appeal was sent to the parties. It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U244	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U245	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U246	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U247	11. - also a editorial proposal from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U248	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U249	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U250	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U251	13. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U252	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U253	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the bailiff of the Minister of Justice, Mārīte Seile, specifying in which cases the And it is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U254	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U255	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U256	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U257	16. - the proposal of the bailiff Mārīte Seile, who harmonises legal norms with the norms of the Law on Children's Rights. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U258	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U259	17. - The proposal of the Legal Commission suggests that if the bailiff has ensured the safe closure and sealing of these premises after the forced opening of the premises, he shall leave a notice to the relevant immovable property or premises inviting him to appear before the office of the bailiff in order to receive the key of the premises. And it's supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U260	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U261	18. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U262	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U263	19. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U264	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U265	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a technical proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U266	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U267	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U268	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U269	22. - The proposal of the bailiff Mārīte Seile, the Minister of Justice, aligns the content of the legal norm with the norms of the Law on Children's Rights. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U270	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U271	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U272	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U273	24. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U274	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U275	25. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U276	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U277	26. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U278	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U279	27. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U280	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U281	28. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U282	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U283	29. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U284	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U285	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U286	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U287	31. - the proposal of the Acting Director of the Minister for Justice, Mārīte Seile. Partially supported, included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U288	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U289	And 32. - a proposal by the Legal Commission laying down transitional provisions on the treatment of a decision arising from the right of access by the bailiff in enforcement cases. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U290	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U291	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U292	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Time and Order of Entry into Force of the Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Law of 1937”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U293	Dear colleagues, This is the final draft of these four draft laws. One proposal has been received. It is a proposal by the Legal Bureau to amend the title of the law itself and it is supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U294	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U295	Consequently, all proposals have been examined and supported. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U296	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Time and Order of Entry into Force of the Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Rights of 1937” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U297	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”. The Saeima’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has received one proposal. It has been presented by Minister for the Interior Rihards Kozlovskis, instead of Minister for Finance, and has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U298	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U299	I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U300	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the Criminal Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U301	Dear colleagues, Draft law No.187/Lp12 on the third final reading is under consideration - Amendments to the Criminal Law. Seven proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice to increase the fine for less serious crimes. The adoption of these amendments may result in a maximum fine of a thousand minimum monthly salaries. The proposal has been examined and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U302	Let's start a debate. There will be a debate on the name of Member Valeria Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U303	Dear colleagues, I admit that the author of the proposal lives in a world that is freed from Latvian reality, because it is time to pay disproportionate fines in the draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law”. Unfortunately, in my opinion, the majority of Latvians are not ready for such a level of punishment. If the author of the proposal was to "turn the bolts to the thick" for offenders and criminals, then some other European countries, especially the Nordic countries, had to follow the pattern and the level of penalties, depending on the level of income of the offenders. There is an axioma in the criminal theory that the number of offences or crimes is reduced not by the severity of the punishment, but by its inevitability. It will, unfortunately, ensure the inevitability of our country, as it is, and replace these shortcomings in the public administration system with excessive severity of the individual offenders and criminals caught. It is simply a false illusion. I therefore call for a vote against this revolutionary turnaround in the performance of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U304	Thank you. The debate is closed. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U305	At the Commission meeting, the proposal has been evaluated and it is important to take into account that the proposal does not provide for an increase in the minimum penalty that can be imposed on the infringements concerned. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: “Yes, to reading 3.” ) The minimum fine is and will continue to be three minimum monthly salaries. The proposal concerns the maximum penalty applicable, and if the specific article of the Criminal Law provides for liability - deprivation of liberty, for example, for up to three years - the option of imposing a fine of up to EUR 360 000 is also an alternative. As I said, the proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U306	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Izalnieks! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U307	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice is similar and provides for an increase in the amount of the fine that can be imposed on a serious crime. The maximum amount may be two thousand minimum monthly salaries, i.e. 720 thousand euro. The proposal has been examined and supported. ( Intersentences from the Hall: “Vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U308	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Izalnieks! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U309	3. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice provides for an increase in the possible fine which may be imposed on criminal offences for which the possibility of punishing a person who has been deprived for a period of more than five years is currently envisaged. It is therefore proposed in this case that a fine of up to 10 thousand minimum monthly salaries may be imposed. It is important to note that there are no articles in the Criminal Law providing for specific penalties. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: “We need to count! Don’t come together!” ) The Court of Justice may adopt this decision if it considers that there are grounds for imposing a penalty which is not connected with deprivation of liberty. In this case, of course, it should be borne in mind that the maximum amount of the fine could amount to EUR 3 million, 600 000. The Commission supported the proposal. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U310	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Izalnieks! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 16, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U311	4. - The motion by the Member is moving. It's supported. The proposal concerns amendments to Article 168 of the Criminal Law, which provides for liability for non-compliance with a decision resulting from custody, care or right of access to the child. At second reading, we amended the provision in question and decided to exclude the word ‘abuse’. But in that verse, that word is used three times. The Commission’s assessment found, however, that this name should be retained twice when it comes to non-compliance with the decision and delay of the decision. The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U312	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U313	5. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior relating to road traffic. Under the current rule, a driver who commits an offence resulting in personal injury when driving a vehicle under influence or when using drugs should be held criminally liable. He can now be punished by deprivation of liberty for a period of between 3 and 15 years. At second reading, we supported the reduction of the fine, but the Parliamentary Secretary calls for more penalties. Now, as I said, the penalty is between three and 15 years old. At second reading, we decided that the maximum penalty for easy... I am sorry that the maximum penalty for moderate injuries may be deprivation of liberty for up to 5 years or forced labour or a fine. The Parliamentary Secretary calls for the detention of up to 6 years. The Commission did not support this proposal. So please vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U314	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal of Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 45, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U315	6. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. This is also linked to road safety. When accidents caused by a driver when driving under the influence of a motor vehicle or when using drugs have resulted in serious personal injury or death, which means that people have actually been killed, the perpetrator can now be deprived of liberty for up to 15 years. At second reading, we decided that the maximum penalty would be 10 years even if human death occurred. The Parliamentary Secretary proposes, however, that greater responsibilities and deprivation of liberty be envisaged for a period of up to 12 years. The Commission did not support the proposal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U316	Members are calling for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal of Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 45, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U317	And the last one is the 7th proposal, which also relates to road traffic offences. We decided that in future, if several people die, the maximum penalty would be between 3 and 15 years... imprisonment for a period of between 3 and 15 years... The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior proposes that the following sentence may be imposed, where appropriate: deprivation of liberty for a period of between 5 and 15 years. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either. Please vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U318	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The proposal of Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 49, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U319	We have examined all the proposals. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U320	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law amending the Criminal Law, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -1, for -20. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure for the Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U321	No legislative proposals were submitted to the draft law and the Commission decided to support it by directing it to the sitting of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U322	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U323	Dear colleagues, We see the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission of the Saeima has received one proposal - that is, a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U324	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U325	I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U326	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Law “On Sworn Auditors”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U327	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Sworn Auditors””. The Commission has received five proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U328	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U329	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U330	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U331	3. - A proposal by Arville Asheraden, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U332	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U333	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U334	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U335	And 5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U336	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U337	I therefore also call for this draft law to be supported at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U338	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to Law “On Sworn Auditors”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U339	Dear colleagues, The Commission worked with the Law on Electronic Media. 32 proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs clarifying the term "electronic media". Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U340	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U341	2. It is also the Commission's proposal to clarify the definition of the term "on-demand audiovisual services for electronic media". Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U342	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U343	3. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U344	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U345	4. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. This clarifies what retransmission is. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U346	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U347	5. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski, to supplement the title of the article by clarifying it. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U348	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U349	6. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U350	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U351	7. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski, who defines which electronic media is under the jurisdiction of Latvia. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U352	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U353	8. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U354	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U355	9. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U356	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U357	10. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U358	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U359	11. is a proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which eliminates the conflict with the fundamental principles of the Directive and the prohibition of double jurisdiction. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U360	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U361	12. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U362	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U363	13. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U364	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U365	14. is the proposal from Saeima Member Lolita Chiganne. It is partly supported and included in 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U366	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U367	15. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Partially supported and included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U368	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U369	16. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U370	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U371	17. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U372	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U373	18. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U374	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U375	19. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U376	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U377	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U378	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U379	And 21. - the proposal of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which intends to take over the procedure laid down by the Directive, to subject television programmes to more stringent national criteria, and which provides for the implementation of the prohibition of retransmission in the event of irregularities - hate speech and violations of children's rights. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U380	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U381	22. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Partially supported, included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U382	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U383	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U384	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U385	24. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U386	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U387	25. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U388	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U389	26. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U390	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U391	27. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U392	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U393	28. - Member Armands Krauze's proposal, which provides for a change of interest and sets out language usage in the transitional provisions with effect from 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U394	Let's start a debate. There will be a debate on the name of Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U395	Hello! I took a paper with you when I was looking at Mr. Elksniņš. It's now modern. They're you! I am not going to talk to you at the moment, because you are a political group. I also have nothing to address in this regard from the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union, because... They themselves are also applicants for this measure. But I will tell the rest of the groups – “From the heart to Latvia!” , Group Unity and Nationals. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “National Association!” ) So, honourable colleagues, I call on you to vote against the proposals of 28 and 29, which have been tabled by the well-known Russian radio expert from all of us, the ZZS - Armands Krauze. He himself is not a member of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, where this draft law was examined. As you can see, he's not taking part in this sitting either, because yesterday... He's on vacation yesterday and today. But his expert advice from us he has not hidden, and now we can all enrich from Armands Krauze's offer of media space. Unfortunately, he is wrong, because the recommendation does not sort out the sector, but is subject to even greater chaos. You will ask: how do we now assess the usefulness of the proposal? But again we get to do what we haven't done to the NEPPs. Let's take a look at the binding documents and look for their application. Here, “Latvian Media Policy Guidelines 2016-2020”! I quote: “The ultimate goal of Latvian media policy is a strong, diverse, professional, transparent, sustainable and stable media environment, in which quality content, corresponding to the interests of Latvian society and common good, is developed at national, regional and local level, which contributes to reflecting the fundamental values enshrined in the Constitution and its preamble in the national media space, priority is given to the interests of the industry, the audience has access to independent and reliable information and knowledge to use it.” End of quote. Load supply... Mrs Viņķele, it is also important for your children that they linger in Latvian. The cargo offer is not encouraged, I quote again: “Sustainable, diverse, professional, transparent, sustainable and stable media environment [development]”, the end of which is quoted, as individual radio stations are given the opportunity to manipulate broadcasting times in Latvian and Russian. It allows you to accept advertising from both Latvian and Russian advertisers. It allows retransmission of content that is not created in Latvia, which is created in Russia, which is some kind of radio of the Kremlin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķele: “External Expert!” ) That is why I say that I will not even look at you. And such hateful content that would be created in Russia cannot be called, I quote again, "in accordance with the interests and common good of Latvia". In Latvia, the ultimate goal of the media space - and now listen to the name “superpoint”, honourable Members and honourable Members! - the aim is to reflect basic values in Latvian. In Latvian! And this is about the fact that content is produced in Latvia, it is created in Latvia. This proposal does not do this. If you're now... I understand that August has given me a job, I understand it's SAID, but it's still... There are therefore these other fractions. And if you vote 'no', then you can, I think, take a normal look, Mr. Valaiņš, you too, to your constituents and, Mr. Zakis, you too, I don't know from which... Well, you're from Unity still. All right. So if you vote in favour of these proposals of the ZZS, where one of the radio owners - Richard Zaks - has, over the last one and a half years, killed EUR 20 000 for this party, but the ZZS is no longer... There's already several parties, there's already, let's say, Guntis Belevičs, who's not from the Farmers, but it's like the Greens, isn't it? And so... Well, Guntis, maybe you could talk to me, let's...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U396	Mr. Neighbours, your time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U397	I'd ask for a half minute, maybe two minutes. Mr. Neighbours never asked for time, so...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U398	Mr. Neighbours, your time is over. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Elksniņš: “Let’s talk!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U399	Can I finish it, please? I should... I'd like to...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U400	How many more do you need?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U401	Give me some time, please! Please give me two minutes!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U402	Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Let it be two minutes.” ) There is no objection. Mr. Neighbours, you have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U403	Thank you, Mr. Many. So do you, in support of this 28 and 29. Are you openly ignoring these quotes that I've read to you before? Are you also showing by ignoring these quotes that you ignore this goal? Please vote against you too, Mrs Viņķele. Please vote against motions 28 and 29!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U404	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? On behalf of the Commission, it is not necessary to add any mention. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - The Member's Armand Krauze's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, for - 13, for - 9. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U405	29. There is also a motion from Member Armands Krauze. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U406	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - The Member's Armand Krauze's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 38, against - 13, refraining - 10. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U407	30. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U408	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U409	31. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Einars Cilinski. Partially supported, included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U410	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U411	And 32. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U412	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U413	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U414	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the disposal of public property, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U415	Hello, colleagues! Six proposals for legal clarification have been received at the third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U416	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U417	2. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Proposal 3 has been partly supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U418	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U419	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U420	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U421	4. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partly supported and included in the next proposal - 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U422	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U423	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U424	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U425	And finally 6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U426	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U427	All the proposals have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U428	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the Act on Operational Activities... Oh, I'm sorry! Draft law “Amendments to Law “On Real Estate Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U429	Hello, colleagues! We are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax””(No 204/Lp12). In the Commission we saw this draft law, which had already been submitted in February, and which provides that in future, a businessman who has rented a residential area in order to count the leased area and to apply the reduced rate of real estate tax to it will be able to register this contract not only in the Land Register, but also in the Electronic Declaration System of the State Revenue Service. In the Commission, we have considered that, yes, it is actually possible, but the problem is that this information must be forwarded to the municipality, either manually, but the programme does not really provide for such a procedure, and that is why it would be necessary to introduce a special form into the electronic declaration system so that the municipality receives it automatically when entering this information. This takes time, and with conceptual support for further progress of the draft law, we have decided that the deadline for submitting proposals will be long enough, but on behalf of the Commission, we are now calling for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U430	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U431	Deadline for submission of proposals - February 1, 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U432	I didn't understand... Again!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U433	February 1, 2016. Did I... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U434	All right! February 1, 2016. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Act on Operational Activities, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U435	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Operational Activities” has been drafted by evaluating the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in cases related to respect for fundamental human rights in relation to operational activities. The draft law specifies the procedure for taking decisions, acceptances, exchange of information, storage and destruction of information, including the issues regulated by the law so far. The draft law regulates in detail the actions of prosecutors, receiving a personal complaint about the actions of officials of entities of operational activities. A new operational measure - account control - is also foreseen, namely the supervision of the operational transaction on the client account of the credit institution or financial institution. The draft law provides for the exclusion of the possibility, without sanctions, of taking special measures in the premises of entities of operational activities or penitentiary institutions, thus ensuring respect for human rights in such specific circumstances as well. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U436	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The word in the debate is John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U437	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, One of the benefits of this draft law is undoubtedly that this draft law has improved Latvian language, which is undoubtedly a good one. The law has thus become more readable. But about the nature of the matter. What Mr Loskatov mentioned and on which we discussed at the committee meeting. The European practice of human rights is mentioned that it will then inform everyone: if there has been an operational development and it ends with nothing, then the potential victim will be informed. But read the following paragraphs of this bill, which say when they will not be informed. But it's not a story. Several years ago, in the previous term, the Saeima established the Operational Act... a sub-committee on the drafting of the law, led by Mr Judine, whose work ended with nothing. And this draft law, which we are currently looking at, does not solve the basic issues of substance. As far back as 1998, the Defence and Home Affairs Commission looked at the need to distinguish between two areas: intelligence, counter-intelligence and operational activities in the criminal environment. Despite all the promises made by both the Ministry of the Interior and the former head of the sub-committee, nothing has been done! I will just give you one example. If one of our intelligence officers, a special service officer, obtains a secret document abroad that is vitally necessary for our country, the question: where will he receive a sanction? The Operational Act shall specify which and in what case these penalties are to be issued. Are we really not so mature as to divide this law into different parts: separate intelligence and counter-intelligence, which is not always in line with activities that are operational activities in the criminal environment? There is also information and a number of other issues that this draft law does not address. I have no objection to the adoption of this draft law at first reading. Unfortunately, it does not, by its very nature, address any of the fundamental issues that had been set up years ago. This draft law does not solve anything in essence! If someone tries to refer to the Law on State Security Authorities, don't believe it! The Law on National Security Authorities deals with quite other issues. We must finally understand what the operational activities of the intelligence or counter-intelligence service differ from those of the criminal environment. It must be understood that these are different areas. The provisions of the same law cannot be applied in different situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U438	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U439	Yes, honourable colleagues, I think that the draft law is really very important, very important. We started a debate on this some three years ago. Unfortunately, the objectives that we set at that time were largely not fulfilled within the framework of the draft law, because at that time our primary aim was to promote and promote the protection of human rights as a result of operational measures... both in the use of the information obtained and in the implementation of a higher level of control over the activities carried out by the services, but today we see what the outcome of this debate is - over three years it has led to a situation where, in fact, all the services are concerned, the objectives, tasks of all the services, but not in the context of human rights protection... To a large extent not accepted... And that is true in many ways of what Mr. Adamson has said. As far as the regulation of the scope of operational activity is concerned, we are going an absolutely wrong way. And, in my opinion, the Act of Operational Activities as such, with all the concepts and all the permitted activities that are intended... In essence, there is no need to have such a law, as the Criminal Procedure Law is largely functioning. The Criminal Procedure Law provides for essentially all special investigative activities, which are also provided for in the Act on Operational Activities. That's the same situation... For example, if we compare legislation in Latvia and Estonia... In Estonia there is no operational law as such, it does not exist there. At the same time, Estonia, for example, has the Anti-Intelligence Act, which is the law of operational action in the modern sense. And what do we see now? It is a compilation from the nature of operational activity, which is also regulated in the Criminal Procedure Law. On the other hand, it is actually a compilation of intelligence and counter-intelligence measures. What do I mean by all this? The scope of operational activities as such should not be regulated by the said Law, as this object is regulated by the Criminal Procedure Law. If a criminal offence has occurred, if there are doubts that a criminal offence has occurred, if an investigation has to be initiated, if it is not possible to ascertain the existence or absence of a criminal offence, then in a civilised world, such as Estonia, Germany, this is done by specific criminal investigations, by the actions envisaged therein. There is absolutely a large amount of name rewritten by name all that is in the Act of Operational Activities. In turn, the regulation of services is carried out by an absolutely different regulatory act. There are limits to institutions, there is a higher level of regulation on the issue of combating terrorist threats. And the degree of ignorance, for example... There are classical monitoring systems in place for the suspict, for the perpetrators, for their potential activities. So, honourable colleagues, really... Yeah... This draft law at first reading, if we have already reached such a distance within three years, is to be welcomed. This kind of debate... But I think it may be necessary to give us reasonable time to put forward proposals and to debate every position within the framework of the said draft law, so that we from a single ditch, when Latvia loses in the European Court of Human Rights, in virtually all cases, with regard to operational measures... All of them! There is no vinting in any case. This is so that such events do not happen again and that we do more work with human rights and do so... For example, to exercise such a discretionary, secret power against... Either, even in the case of citizens who violate the law, or in the case of those who ignore the law and use this secret power with the most anonymous reports, we could put in place and develop a really proper system that could work to a great extent effectively.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U440	Thank you. The debate is closed. On behalf of the Commission, do you have something to add to Mr Loškov?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U441	At the Commission's sitting, we really debated this draft law before this reading. I would like to add that in order to establish a new law or to amend the law, there is also a need for some tangible basis and justification. In order to draw up a bill that would only regulate the operational functioning of intelligence and counter-intelligence authorities, it would require their own will or it would be necessary to see clearly the shortcomings in their work. For now, there is no indication, as the people say, of any kind. This means that the Operational Act is sufficient. I really call on you, on behalf of the Commission, to support this draft law, because it deals with a number of issues that ensure respect for human rights in the context of operational activities.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U442	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Operational Activities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U443	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is November 20, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U444	Twenty... Who?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U445	November 20th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U446	November 20th. Members shall not object. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start to see the next item on today's agenda, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received five Members - Shadurska, Gaida Berzina, Cilinska, Brigmanis and Zariņa - with a proposal to continue the sitting of the Saeima today without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug: “We support! Agree!” ) Members shall not object. Consequently, the sitting is continued without interruption. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia", second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U447	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has prepared for the second reading “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”. One proposal has been received for the second reading from the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Acting Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Belēvičs. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U448	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U449	The Legal Commission of the Saeima invites to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U450	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U451	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is November 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U452	November 27th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on international and national sanctions law, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U453	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document number 1185. The nature of this law is very simple. This allows Latvia to introduce national sanctions. Sanctions are not a goal in themselves, but are only a means used to ensure peace, security and the rule of law in accordance with Latvia's international commitments and national interests. Until now, Latvia has introduced only international sanctions. By this law, the Cabinet of Ministers may, on its own initiative and on the basis of a proposal of the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the recommendation of the National Security Council, impose national sanctions if they are not contrary to Latvia's international obligations arising from Latvia's membership of the international organisation, as well as, if necessary, to prevent damage to Latvia's interests and, if necessary, to combat international terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. The draft law also provides that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the proposal of the competent institutions or the application of the sanctioning entity, will be able to make proposals to the international organisation to abolish international sanctions insofar as they apply to the sanctioning entity if it is a natural or legal person under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Latvia. The draft law is related to amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, the Criminal Law, the Land Register Law, the Law on the Executors of the Courts, as well as the Civil Procedure Law, which has already been approved at first reading by the Legal Commission of the Saeima. The types of sanctions shall include financial, civil, entry, provision of tourist services and other restrictions. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined and supported the draft law at first reading, conceptual reading, and on behalf of the Commission, I call on Members to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U454	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “International Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -56, for -no, for -1. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U455	Deadline for submission of proposals - November 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U456	November 13. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U457	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U458	The next item is the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere. Dear colleagues, I recall that for this item on the agenda to be dealt with in accordance with the Constitution, it is necessary that at least two thirds of all Members have participated in the sitting. Therefore, before we start examining this draft law, we need registration of the number of Members present, or quorum. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! With 75 Members registered, that is more than two thirds of the total number of Members, so we can look at this draft law at first reading. So, as I said, the Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere will report on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U459	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined this draft law and has decided to support it. When we saw it before the first reading, we invited experts in constitutional law who could come and discuss it with Members. For example, Edgars Pastis. We also invited State Law teachers of the University of Latvia, who in turn could not come, but Annija Kārkliņa sent her written opinion on this draft amendment to the Satversme. We also recalled all the views of experts that we had heard in the working group specifically set up by the previous Saeima, and decided that at the moment, in the version in which the draft amendments to the Satversme were submitted, the Legal Commission can conceptually support and direct it, but, of course, we will very scrupulously assess all possible doubts about this draft law before the second and third reading, and one of the main issues that we will consider will be the issue of whether or not the abolition of administrative immunity in the case of administrative arrest is relevant, because it is a question that must be considered in conjunction with Article 29 of the Satversme. We also heard colleagues say that the issue of immunity should be dealt with systemically in all cases of violations of state officials and judicial authorities, and Mr Elksniņš pointed out that he would submit such proposals. Today's proposals were on the agenda of the Saeima sitting, and we have already discussed them in depth. I would therefore like to point out on behalf of the Legal Commission that the Commission has supported the draft law. I call on you to support this and, on behalf of the Commission, the promise that we will be very important in our assessment of these amendments to the Constitution, so that all issues are covered.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U460	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor will be held for Ms Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U461	Dear colleagues, Our colleagues from a political group have shown us this morning the jungle we are standing in front of with regard to the various immunitys of the various officials. We looked more than... or 15 draft laws, and of course we can stand in front of the jungle and debate the need to get through them. We should clean these jungles, we should saw them, or we should cut them, or maybe we should burn them to get through them. It's not green... However, the jungle will not become more transparent from standing and speaking. We have also heard at the beginning of the sitting that we can only progress in a structured way. It is also actually proposed by this draft law. The abolition of the administrative immunity of Members during these two weeks has also been supported by legal experts, and we have heard in these expert discussions the call for Members to finally board the same boat with their constituents. Maybe then we'd better understand each other, and then we'd even reduce the gap between power and society a little bit. Therefore, my fellow Members, let us take this first structured step in the jungle ahead of us, and perhaps some things will become more visible then - those who want to get through these jungle and those who want to talk only about getting through them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U462	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U463	Dear colleagues, In fact, we have just heard the Demagogy Model Study (Dep. K. Šadurskis: “We still hear demagogy!” ), when the entire parliament, in absolute unanimity, rejects a whole legislative package on the alignment of this institute. At the same time, however, comes to the tribunal and, within the framework of another draft law, says that we should still be more equal, but we have to look at... There's some jungle here that's drawing each other... There are no jungles, Mrs. Bites! We have been debating this issue in Parliament since November 2012 and the SAHHA has put forward a number of proposals to put this issue right - also on your offer to waive immunity. And we support this solution. But look at what you're doing. We also spoke to you, Mrs Betes, within the framework of the Legal Commission. You know very well what the roll of order of the Saeima is, what the procedure is for discussing amendments to the Constitution. Expanding from the first to the second to the third reading of the amendments is absolutely impossible. We cannot move now from 29 to 30, to 31. We can only talk about this very short, very narrow issue within the framework of the specific draft law, which you have now suddenly taken on as a manager with noble goals, saying that we will now take their administrative responsibility away. What did we propose to you to do within the framework of the Legal Commission? Please, we're coming to the Legal Commission, sit down... Well, Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere is a witness and a number of members of the Legal Commission... These tables, which we have shown you today, have been in the Legal Commission record since 2012. You don't have to admire my or that capacity! These draft laws are the result of an hour's work that we have submitted. What years, what sort of research, evaluation, or other alternative? You're talking... We offer to rule out Article 29 at all... Article 30. What are you talking about? ‘ Only halfway out of article 30!’ And on it, "only half" we will be those most greedy. Well, but you know you know there's a lot of things in a life in which half is not there. And to the end... Well, it does not delight any of the parties in this process. ( Milestones.) But yet... But yet... Still! Where is your vote on amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, so that we can know the names of the offenders? You were sitting in the Chamber, you took your card and you did not vote in favour of that bill. If you did not vote in favour of the meaning and meaning of the fictitious, supposed reforms that you have proposed, so that you cannot bring Members to administrative responsibility through the vote of the Saeima? I understand that now Spolitis does not need that shame - to come here when he has just driven the car and then, now, continues as a member of the Saeima to sit here, to teach everyone here morally... But actually sits, well, just a drunkard, the driver of the car. The biggest danger in Parliament. (Applause) He leaves the Unity... He leaves the Unity, but he sits in the Unity, continues... And just drive... All these measures are also taking place. The same thing about the Greens. Well, it's just... they just “Hameleon games” now! It is simply a joke this time about the Constitution, it is a ridicule for the whole system, when you left the pseudo problem to the public once again before the budget is discussed. If you want to solve the problem as a whole, then let us do it! We have submitted a great many draft laws. Let's vote for each of them! Let's get rid of immunity! Why do you want to maintain your criminal immunity, Mrs Betes? When could you suddenly come to your home with a search decision? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “We are talking about the Constitution!” ) And you want Parliament to vote on it, as has been the case with Sleser. For this you... No one wants to debate this. You do not want to sign any bill on this which we have tabled. And what do you all think of here? The big, right angels who just want to make a difference on this matter... Is that so? The Union of Greens and Farmers! Look at how you have voted on this for years. Years, years! That's it. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U464	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U465	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that there was also a debate in the Commission on these issues, which Mr Elksniņš has just mentioned, and the Legal Commission - and the Chair of the Commission has also just confirmed this - has already started work to initiate the question... order also the issue of immunity of judges. There will already be a dialogue with the Council for the Judiciary, and we are talking about the fact that, when amending the Constitution, there will be no public... Well, the question is that we would like to hide in some way which Members have committed administrative offences. We are also talking about this in the Legal Commission. At the meeting of the Commission, we will definitely think about how to reflect this and whether it would be necessary to amend either the Saeima order roll or the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. In particular, these issues will still be discussed within the Legal Commission, so I said to the previous report: this is only a conceptual support for the first reading; work on the second and third readings will be important, and let us also talk about these issues from Mr Elksniņš. Therefore, Mr. Elksniņš, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to encourage you and call on you to take this first promise together. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Where?” ) And then we will be able to achieve our common goal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Elksniņš: “We should have taken this morning when we voted!” ) I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U466	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 20, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. (Applause) Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U467	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set at 27 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U468	November 27th. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U469	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U470	The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Patent Law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U471	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law”. A total of four proposals have been received. Everyone is editorial. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U472	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U473	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U474	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U475	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U476	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U477	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U478	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U479	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U480	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U481	Let us wait until November 5th for proposals for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U482	November 5. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law amending the law on the protection of topographies of semiconductor products, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U483	Two proposals have been received for the second reading of the draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the protection of topography of semiconductor products’. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U484	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U485	2. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U486	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U487	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U488	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Topography of semiconductor Products”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U489	We will also wait until November 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U490	November 5. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Designs, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U491	A total of eight proposals were received for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs”. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U492	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U493	2. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U494	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U495	3. There is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U496	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U497	4. - the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been partly supported and included in the list 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U498	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U499	5. - the proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U500	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U501	6. - the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U502	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U503	7. - the proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U504	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U505	And finally 8. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U506	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U507	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U508	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Design Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U509	The Commission will wait until November 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U510	November 5. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law amending the law on trade marks and geographical indications, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U511	The second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications” received 11 proposals. 1. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U512	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U513	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U514	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U515	3. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U516	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U517	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U518	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U519	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U520	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U521	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U522	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U523	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U524	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U525	8 / 8 - Legal Bureau proposal - has been partly supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U526	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U527	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U528	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U529	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U530	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U531	And the last one is 11. - the proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U532	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U533	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U534	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U535	Let us wait until November 5th for proposals for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U536	November 5. Members shall not object. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U537	Highly honored Saeima Presidium! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. The Committee on Social Affairs invites you to draw attention to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”, which needs to be examined, and the Commission calls for it to be done as a matter of urgency, as the provisions described in the draft law are related to Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013. The situation is that the deadline for transposition of this Directive entered into force on 20 July 2015. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs received a letter from the Minister for Welfare inviting and requesting from the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” (No.148Lp12) to remove the norms related to the Directive and see the urgency procedure. According to the parliamentary order, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs addressed the Ministry of Finance and received a letter signed by Mr Reira, which reads as follows: “The Ministry of Finance, within the limits of its competence, has examined the draft law received from the Parliament’s Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, and its annotation and does not oppose its further progress.” Dear colleagues, I informed you that when preparing the draft law, we cooperated, of course, with the Ministry of Welfare, law enforcement, the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia, the Latvian Municipalities Union, the Welfare Department of Riga City Council, the Society “Shelter “Safe House”” and other non-governmental organizations. For this reason, on behalf of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, I am asking today for urgent legislative action to be taken at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U538	Dear colleagues, First of all, in accordance with the parliamentary roll of order, we must vote in favour of granting urgency to the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U539	On behalf of the Commission, please adopt the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U540	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U541	The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs invites that the deadline for the submission of proposals be set on 16 November of this year and that the review of the draft law be carried out at the second, final, reading on 26 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U542	So the proposals are due by 16 November and the second reading by 26 November. Members shall not object. Thank you. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". Draft decision “On the exclusion of the draft laws “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”” (No 374/Lp12) from the 2016 draft laws accompanying the state budget. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs... has been written down here.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U543	Presidium! Dear Members, The Commission of State Administration and Local Government asks to review the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”... However, to exclude this draft law from the 2016 draft laws accompanying the state budget. And why? In brief. Thus, in 2007, this law, entitled ‘On assistance in the resolution of apartment issues’, included an article 27.2, which sets out the four objectives for which the State is providing assistance in the resolution of apartment issues. However, from 2007 onwards, no funds have been included in the budget, and in fact this section of the law does not work. We see that the 11th Saeima has looked at this bill... the law and wanted to make amendments, but Members of the 11th Saeima have not excluded this paragraph 27.2 from the law, but have determined that its activities are to start with 2016. Seeing last year’s law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017,” we see that no financial resources are foreseen. And also the draft law for 2016, which is currently under review, as well as the medium-term draft law, does not provide for financial resources. Therefore, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government considers that this draft law is not related to the state budget and could be examined in general terms. First, it is for the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government to discuss whether this Article 27.2 should be left or closed out of that law. Therefore, please take a vote to exclude this draft law from the 2016 draft laws accompanying the state budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U544	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U545	Dear colleagues, I will talk about this and three future draft laws, namely two draft laws – “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance to Address the Issues of the Apartment”” and “Amendments to the Law “On... “ Excuse me! - "Amendments to the law on housing administration" - so that these two draft laws are excluded from the budget package and the Commission responsible for changing. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has discussed the issues proposed in the Budget Package by the Ministry of Economics. At the meeting, we listened to the arguments of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, at the same time, our committee member Edgars Putra. They were convincing for the majority of Commission members and we decided by a majority not to support these four draft laws. That is why, on behalf of the Commission, I am asking for this and the following three draft laws to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U546	These are draft decisions, but we understood. The debate is closed. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U547	No, not to be added.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U548	Thank you. Please call me! We will be voting for the draft decision “On the exclusion of the draft laws “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” from the draft laws accompanying the state budget for 2016”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 49, for - 3. The solution isn't... No, the decision has been taken - the draft decision has been rejected. The next item is the draft decision on the change of the committee responsible to the draft law on “Amendments to the law on assistance in the resolution of apartment issues””. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U549	Yes, the logic was: if the previous vote had been positive, then this issue would have been welcome. But at the moment, I am just asking for a vote, because the previous one was negative.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U550	Yeah, thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On assistance in solving the issues of the apartment”””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 51, for - 2. The draft decision was rejected. The next item is the draft decision on the exclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” (No375/Lp12) from the 2016 package of draft laws accompanying the state budget. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U551	Yeah, there's a request for this draft law, too... The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has a request to exclude the draft laws accompanying the State Budget 2016 from this draft law, because the reason was that this law should enter into force on 1 July 2016 and that this draft law should also be considered in the general procedure of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. So please vote in favour of this request of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government and exclude this draft law from the legislative package accompanying the budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U552	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the exclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” (No375/Lp12) from the draft laws accompanying the state budget for 2016”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 53, for - 2. The draft decision was rejected. The next item is the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible to the draft law on the administration of residential houses (No.375/Lp12)". On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U553	Yes, given that the previous vote rejected... It is therefore not possible to refer the matter to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U554	Well, yes, but in any case, you can't unilaterally withdraw the draft Commission decision... So...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U555	No, I can't. I can't... I do not remove, I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U556	Yes, in any case, a vote must be taken. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the change of the commission for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” (No.375/Lp12)”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 53, for - 2. The draft decision was rejected. The next item is the draft decision on the change of the review date to the draft law on amendments to the law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications (No. 334/Lp12, urgent) and to set it on 12 November 2015. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U557	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please change the review period set by the Saeima from 5 November to 12 November of the draft law “Amendments to the law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U558	Yes, I would like to clarify that, therefore, this draft law has been declared urgent and the Saeima supported another date for the second reading, and now the Commission is proposing to postpone it to 12 November. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the change of the review date for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” (No. 334/Lp12, urgent) and set it on 12 November 2015! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the next item on the agenda is the report by the Saeima Bureau on its own-initiative proposal. This own-initiative proposal is a draft decision “Declaration on the protection of national minors abroad in the field of the rights of the child”. Since this is an own-initiative proposal, I have to ask you: do Members have reservations that this own-initiative proposal is on the agenda for today's sitting? Members object. Consequently, it cannot be put on the agenda of today's sitting. The question is: are there objections to inclusion on the agenda of the next sitting? ( Impressions from the drug: “Yes! Yes!’ ) One Member can speak for, one against. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U559	Dear colleagues, More and more information is being received about worrying cases when children are taken out of the families of Latvian citizens in their home countries or countries of temporary residence and taken care of by other persons. Yes, there are also worrying facts in these cases about the irresponsibility of parents - Latvian citizens. Like the unacceptable and incomprehensible behaviour of the authorities responsible. And this is not just about the children of our country's citizens. In 2012 between Slovakia and the United Kingdom, there was a huge scandal in the case of the removal of children, when the British family court had decided that two children removed from the family should be given adoption in the UK. Slovakia then adopted a declaration on the adoption of Slovak children in the United Kingdom, stating that Slovakia had serious concerns about the functioning of the British family protection system and the UK’s readiness to withdraw children from their biological families without a valid reason. Pointing also that the representative of Slovakia in the European Court of Human Rights intends to challenge the legitimacy of the British policy. As a result of all the activities, both of these children returned to Slovakia. In view of the growing precedents in certain municipalities, the UK High Court in its judgment of 14 January 2014 in Case No ReE (A Child) (2014) EWHC 6 (Fam) stated: ‘As regards the possible impact of Articles 36 and 37 of the Vienna Convention on consular relations, there should be transparency and openness between English family courts and consular or other relevant foreign institutions in cases involving foreign nationals. The fact that the courts continued their usual practice in the past and applied the Law of the Court Administration autonomously as limited information available to outside persons has been not only volatile but also counterproductive and potentially very harmful. From now on, good practice requires that in any care or other public law case, a court shall not create any obstacle or obstacle to free communication with a party who is a foreign national or with a party who is a consular authority of that foreign country.’ In this way, a breach of the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations was recognised in respect of foreign consular services so that they were informed of the situation in good time and could take action in the interests of their citizens. The local municipality of England, in which our citizen was removed from parental care three years ago, in a reply letter to the Ambassador of Latvia to the United Kingdom on 23 July 2014, confirms, and I quote: “The local municipality acknowledges and deeply apologises to your Excellency for non-compliance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations at the time when care procedures were carried out in this case. In order to explain this error, I explained that at that time it was not common practice for local authorities to comply with the convention. Local authorities, parents and child guardians, lawyers, as well as the court were not informed about the provisions of the Convention. In this context, the High Court of England issued a judgment recognising this general lack of understanding, but also explained to local authorities what their responsibilities are and that the convention must always be respected. The municipality is now fully aware of its obligations under the Convention and will ensure that they are respected in all future cases." Colleagues, there is a well-known principle: unlawful conduct cannot have legal consequences. And in this case, it is not enough simply to apologise for violations, which may have led to the best interests of children being violated under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, but to turn the situation to the advantage of how far it has come from the outset. We separate ourselves from the assessment of the termination of care rights for the parents of the child. It is the responsibility of each of the institutions of the country concerned, but we strongly stand up for the right of our citizens to the protection of their identity, to the continuity of education, to their ethnic background, to religious affiliation, to culture and to language. The child is not responsible for the lightness or irresponsibility of his parents, and at a time when the parents are incapable of acting against their children, the State of Latvia has a special duty to take care of his interests, to preserve the relationship of the child with its country and its identity. Unfortunately, however active the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and diplomatic service, in particular the Ambassador of Latvia to the United Kingdom, Mr Teikmanis, yesterday in a well-known case, despite the opposition of the representatives of Latvia, the English court decided to hand over the Latvian citizen to adoption in England, thus effectively removing the Latvian citizen, because the adoptors at their own discretion may refuse the child's existing citizenship, completely changing its identity. But this decision will not end everything. Colleagues, I ask for one and a half minutes!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U560	Are Members not opposed to the extension of speaking time? ( From the drug: “No! Speak!” ) You have one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U561	An outstanding example of Latvia's national protection is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 12 July 2011 in the case “Sneersone and Kampanella v Italy”. Despite the judgments of the Italian court regarding the return of a minor Latvian citizen to his father in Italy, and the European Commission's opinion that the Italian court is right, not the mother of the child, Latvia succeeded in winning, and our citizen remained in Latvia. Courts decide and decide in different ways, but the attitude of the state of Latvia towards its citizens must be constant. According to Article 98 of the Satversme, anyone holding a Latvian passport is in state defence outside Latvia and has the right to freely return to Latvia. On behalf of the applicants, I call on this draft declaration to be submitted to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs for final adoption at the next sitting of the Saeima and for this declaration to assist the State in fulfilling its constitutional obligation with regard to minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U562	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky. He has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U563	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction at the increase in the total intellectual capacity of the Saeima, because the signatures for the previous draft decision were withdrawn, which seriously violated the parliamentary mandate laid down in the Constitution and intervened in the work of the UK judicial system. This proposed draft decision is already, if I may say so, much better, because it is no longer acceptable from the point of view of international relations and diplomatic practices. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūrris: “Dumbness!” ) So this is a very important step, and thank you for taking this step! I regret to say that the interests of the child have completely forgotten here, as Mr Debtor referred to the case of adoption of one particular girl. This girl, whose parental authority has been suspended four years ago when she is two years old, has been living in her foster family for four years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “Trust in three different families!” ) Well, imagine what would happen if what the Master of the Debtor called for were realized! Yes, probably Latvia would get one new citizen with damaged life. Is that our aim in this case? Dear colleagues, Our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy in the United Kingdom have done a great deal throughout this process, and the result is the way we see it, but there will be no unity in the creation of such a document (Dep. I.Ryban's transcripts.) and considers this new draft declaration to be very poorly prepared and irreparable. I call on you to reject any further progress made in this document and, with our parliamentary vote, to "archise" it in the traditional "archive" where it is divided into fine stripes. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U564	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Before we start voting, I would like to remind you that, first of all, we will be voting in favour of putting this own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - on the agenda for the next ordinary sitting, and only if this vote is negative will we be able to vote in favour of the second proposal by Mr Debtor, so to put this draft decision to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. So the first vote is in favour of including the draft decision - the own-initiative proposal - on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “Declaration on the protection of minors in the field of children’s rights abroad” on the agenda of the Saeima’s next regular sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 34, for - 39. So this own-initiative proposal - draft decision “Declaration on the protection of minors in the field of children’s rights abroad” is not included on the agenda of the Saeima’s next regular sitting. And now we come back to... Yes, please turn on the microphone for the debtor!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U565	I call for this own-initiative proposal to be submitted to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U566	Yeah, thank you. This proposal must also be distinguished by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over this own-initiative proposal to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs the draft decision “Declaration on the Protection of Minors of the State of Latvia abroad in the Field of Children’s Rights”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 46, for - 31, for - 1. Consequently, this draft decision has been referred to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Dear colleagues, We are beginning to look at the next part of the agenda - the final part of today's long sitting - 'The election, approval, appointment, dismissal, dismissal, expression of trust or distrust'. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Alexander Jakimov to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Alexander Jakimov, to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Aleksandr Jakimov, to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Alexander Jakimov to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. And the last item on the agenda for today's sitting is the draft decision on the withdrawal of Inga Vanaga from the Central Electoral Commission. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U567	Dear colleagues, At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima today, on 29 October, the draft decision “On Revocation of Inga Vanaga from the Central Electoral Commission” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Inga Vanaga to be withdrawn from the Central Electoral Commission on the basis of her application for winding up.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U568	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Inga Vanaga from the Central Electoral Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The entire agenda for today's sitting is therefore being examined. But before we register, I would like to inform you that today at 17.00 there is a provision for answering Members' questions. And as the first one is the question of Members Zarina, Mirska, Raimonds Rubika, Potapkin and Orlovs to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the failure of the Ministry of Economics in the field of construction”. A written reply has been received that does not satisfy the applicants, but the Prime Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Wot it!” ) The question to the Minister for Health Guntis Belēvičs “On the implementation of e-health projects” by Members Silver, May, Baložs, Shimfas and Platoper, to which the applicants are not satisfied, will be discussed at today's meeting, as the Minister informs him that he can attend today's meeting and give an oral answer. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Train! Learn!” ) The question of Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola, “On faster gas market liberalisation”. A written reply has been received, but the answer does not satisfy the questioners. The Minister informs her that she can come today to give an oral answer. The question to the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On Collies in Construction” by Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova. It has also received a written reply which does not satisfy the applicants. The question will be examined today as the Minister informs us that she can attend the oral response. The question of Members Zarina, Zemļinska, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova is addressed to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the Regulatory Regulation of the Construction Sector” to the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola. A written reply has been received, but the reply does not satisfy the applicants. The Minister informs her that she can come today to give an oral answer. The question of Members Silver, May, Platoper, Baloža and Šymfas to Minister for Education and Science Mārīte Seile “On Science Development and its Financing”. A written reply has been received, but the reply does not satisfy the applicants. The Minister informs her that she can attend the oral response today. The question of Members Silver, Shifas, May, Baloža and Platopera to the Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile “On Access to Education of Interest and Development of the Education System of Interest”. The written reply has been received, but the respondents are not satisfied. The Minister informs her that she can come today to give an oral answer. The question of Members Silver, Shifa, May, Baloža and Platoper to the Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss “On Development of the Port of Liepaja and Special Economic Zone and Attraction of Cargo to the Latvian Logistics Centre”. A written reply has been received, but the written reply does not satisfy the questioners. The Minister informs that he is unable to attend today's oral response. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “What are they all unsatisfied!” ) The question of Members Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Smart Specialization Strategy” has been referred to the Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile. The answer has been answered in writing, but the answer does not satisfy the authors of the question. The Minister informs her that she can come today to give an oral answer. The question of Member Pimenova, Potapkina, Tutina, Raimonds Rubika and Adamsons, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Kaspars Gerhards, “On amendments to the plans of Jurmala’s territory”. The written reply has been received, but the respondents are not satisfied. The Minister informs that he is unable to attend today's oral response. The question of Members Elksniņa, Tutina, Agešina, Stepanenko and Zemlinska is addressed to the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs about the functioning of the State Revenue Service. The answer has been answered in writing, but the answer received is not satisfactory for the applicants. The Minister informs that he cannot attend today's oral response. The question of Member Elksniņa, Tutina, Urbanoviča, Potapkina and Agešina has also been answered in writing by the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs about the functioning of the State Revenue Service, but the answer does not satisfy the applicants. The Minister informs that he cannot arrive today to give an oral answer. The question to the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On Compliance of the Model of Liberalisation of the Latvian Natural Gas Market with the Interest of Latvian Consumers” by Member Zariņa, Tutina, Potapkina, Agešina and Artis Rubika. The answer has been answered in writing, but the answer received does not satisfy the questioners. The Minister informs her that she can attend today's oral response. The question to the Minister of Culture Dace Melbārdė “On the Budget Priorities of the Ministry of Culture for 2016” by the Members Ribakava, Agešina, Nikiforova, Urbanoviča and Zarina. The respondents have been answered in writing and are satisfied. The question is therefore considered to have been answered. The question of Members Kūtra, Meija, Platopera, Šimfas and Baloža is addressed to the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs about the draft law “On State Budget for 2016”. A written reply has been received, but the answer does not satisfy the questioners. The Minister informs that he cannot attend today's oral response. The question of Members Silver, May, Platoper, Baloža and Šymfas for the Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile “On the Budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for 2016”. A written reply has been received, but the answer does not satisfy the questioners. The Minister shall inform her that she may attend the oral procedure. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “This one is longer than the plenary!” ) It is about the past. Now for the future. New questions have been received from Members. Members Elksniņš, Cilevičs, Niconovs, Zemlinskis and Tretjaka have submitted a question to Minister of Finance Janis Reirs “On Activities of the State Revenue Service”. This question will be referred to Minister for Finance Janis Reirs. Minister of Finance Janis Reirs is also asked about the draft law “On State Budget 2016” submitted by Members Kūtris, Meija, Balodis, Mežeckis, Šymfa. This issue will also be referred to Minister for Finance Janis Reirs. Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova will refer the question “On legal outsourcing of the Ministry of Economics in the field of energy” to the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola, the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola. And now two more questions on which the rapporteurs want to give the motivation to ask these questions. And as the first one is Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina, Elksniņa question to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Legal Outsourcing of the Ministry of Economics”. One of the applicants, Member Ivars Zarins, wants to motivate her orally. Please, Mr. Zarins, one minute for you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U569	In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, the model proposed by the Ministry of Economics for liberalising the gas market revealed that it is legally unclear, controversial and very complex. When the Ministry of Economics was asked the question on which it was based when it proposed it, the Ministry replied that it had been developed by consulting and based on the opinion of the competent legal professionals. So we are asking for this opinion from the competent lawyers. The Ministry of Economics avoided doing so by pointing to a document that could see what was actually written there. A meeting of this document has shown that the legal office which it has presented in its reply is quite different from what appears in the documents. Moreover, there appears to be informal information that there are still other legal offices that have consulted the Ministry of Economics on this particular model of gas market liberalisation. Then we ask the Prime Minister to be clear... help to clarify what the legal offices are then, and what they have consulted the Ministry of Economics, which has resulted in such a highly dubious model of liberalisation of the gas market.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U570	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the question to the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola about the liberalisation of the Latvian natural gas market has also been received. This question will be passed on to the Minister for Economic Affairs, but the applicants are also asking for a statement of reasons. One minute for you, Mr. Zarins!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U571	Colleagues! Cheap Lithuanian gas awaits us, but the Ministry of Economics is baffling and cannot complete the liberalisation of the gas market. It offers an unclear, complex, controversial and difficult to implement, if at all feasible, model of liberalisation of the gas market, which will also be very costly for Latvian consumers. We asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs to provide justification for such a model offered by the gas market. The Ministry of Economics was unable to do this, did not answer any of the questions of substance, so once again we repeat these questions and ask specifically to answer them in order to obtain the grounds that the Ministry of Economics has at all the appropriate competence and sense of opening this market and actually opening this market for the benefit of Latvian consumers and not one business group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U572	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's time for registration. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! As long as the results of the registration are collected, for the notification the name of Member Silvia Šimpas.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U573	Colleagues, I'm sorry. As Secretary of the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima, I inform you that Members working in the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima are invited to a meeting of the Commission at 13:30. The sitting will not be long, but questions need to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U574	Thank you. For the notification, the name of the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U575	Good afternoon, honourable Members! I would like to remind all the group leaders that half the meeting of the Fraction Council and the Saeima Presidium will be held in the Red House. I also ask the Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to come to the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U576	Thank you. And for reading the results of the registration, the name to Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U577	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Solvita Āboltiņa, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Armands Krauze, Maris Kučinskis, Ainars Latkovskis, Ināra Mūrniece, Romanas Naudiņš, Arvīds Platopers, Sergejs Potapkins, Romualds Gamuks, Edvards Smiltēns, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-29-PT12-325-U578	Thank you. Thus, I declare closed the sitting of the Saeima on 29 October 2015.
