ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U1	Colleagues, I call for seats to be held in the Chamber so that we can begin to review the agenda of the Saeima meeting approved by the Bureau on 30 April! Before starting to examine the agenda adopted by the Bureau, the amendments tabled to the agenda adopted by the Bureau should be considered. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion of a draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement’. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion of the draft law on Public Service Providers' Procurement. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Excise Tax””. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. National associations “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” parliamentary group asks for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it the draft law on repatriation. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Āboltiņa, Šadurskis, Smiltēns, Abu Meri, Judins and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member Jānis Upenieks from the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Āboltiņa, Šadurskis, Smilten, Abu Meri, Judin and others are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and to include a draft decision on the election of Mr Janis Riverer to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Āboltiņa, Šadurskis, Smiltēns, Abu Meri, Judin and others ask for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision on the election of Member Viktoras Valaiņš to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Elksniņš, Arthur Rubiks, Ribakovs, Agešins, Andrejs Klementyevs and others... I'm sorry! Members Solvita Āboltiņa, Kārlis Šadurskis, Edwards Smilten, Hosam Abu Meri, Andrejs Judin and others are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft decision on the election of Member Viktoras Valaiņš to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Māra Kučinska, Romana Nadiņa, Inesa Boķa, Sergej Dolgopolova, Silvia Šimfas and other draft laws submitted by the Member “Amendments to the Law on Assistance in the Resolution of Apartment Issues” be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U2	Dear President, Honourable Members! This draft law, signed by representatives of various political groups, all of whom are linked to local governments, expresses the general desire of local governments and stresses the need to stimulate their economic growth, stimulate their growth and development. This law has so far allowed aid to be provided only in the social sphere, but in this case it would also provide an opportunity to attract the necessary specialists, with which I think the local authorities could benefit from a good acceleration of their development. I have to say right away that this will obviously not be the case in Riga, because there is no such necessity in Riga. In contrast to other cities in Riga, there are still very great problems with the adequacy of the residential foundation, as well as many outstanding issues related to both denationalized houses and social assistance. In addition, experts are actually coming to Riga as it is; this cannot be said of the outermost regions. We very much hope that this will open up a new possibility that it will also be an opportunity for Latgale to attract with such an offer those specialists that are needed, let us say, in education, perhaps from rural areas, perhaps from other cities, where it could help build faster development. This draft law has not been created by emotions in the last week, but it has been developed almost... about a year, lawyers, municipal lawyers, in consultation with both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the VARAM, so that I can inform you that we also have the conceptual support of executive powers, these responsible ministries. And I very much hope for further work - including productive work - within the commissions and for this proposal to be legally established. Thank you. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U3	Thank you. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers” drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Budget and Finance (tax) establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Asylum” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement’ presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima also proposes that the draft law on procurement of public service providers presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on excise duty presented by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Armands Krauze requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 20 April to 24 April of this year. The Bureau has granted such leave and you are informed of it. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Alexey Loskkov requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 30 April of this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and you are informed of it. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ivars Zarins requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 30 April of this year. The Bureau has granted such leave and you are informed of it. The Bureau has also received an application from the Saeima Member Jānis Klazdas requesting to grant him unpaid leave from May 6 to May 12 of this year. And we have to vote in favour of granting this leave. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to the Member Janis Klazdas from May 6 to May 12 of this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. Consequently, leave is granted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda, draft decision on the dismissal of Intas Ķikutė from office of a judge of the Alūksne district court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U4	The draft decision “On Dismissal of Intas Ķikutė from the position of a judge of the Alūksne district court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 21 April of this year. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite to release Inta Ķikute from the position of judge of Alūksne district court by June 25, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Intas Ķikutė from the position of a judge of Alūksne district court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft decision is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Inese Usakova as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U6	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 21 April, the draft decision “On approval of Inese Ušakova as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Inese Ušakova to approve the judge of district (city) court without limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Inese Usakova as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of the Member Jānis Upenieks. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member Jānis Upenieks from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Mr Janis Upenieks to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Jānis Upenieks to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Mr Viktoras Valaiņš, Member of the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Viktoras Valaiņš to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Mr Viktoras Valaiņš, Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Viktoras Valaiņš to the Education, Culture and Science Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U8	Dear colleagues, We have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety” before the third reading. We have received 7 proposals. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U9	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U10	2. - The proposal by Karina Korna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U12	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U13	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U14	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Corn. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U16	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Corn. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U18	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U20	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U22	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U23	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration and Maritime Safety of the Sea”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at third reading has been supported. The law is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Judicial Power, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U24	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”” before the third reading. I would remind you that these amendments are prepared following the public disagreements which were the judges of the Supreme Court after the reorganisation of the Chamber of Criminal Cases of the Supreme Court. And we ourselves, as you remember, did not support the decision to transfer three judges to the regional court. In order to avoid such legal problems after 31 December 2016, when the Chamber of Civil Cases will be reorganized, a solution, a legally correct solution, appropriate for the Constitution, so that these judges, who will remain unemployed, will retain the status of a judge of the Supreme Court (not only remuneration) and that there are no such strange cases that judges of the Supreme Court... that although there are vacancies in this court, these vacancies are not filled with judges of the Supreme Court. So this version was prepared by the Ministry of Justice together with the Legal Bureau, trying to resolve these issues. These amendments must also be agreed with the Council for the Judiciary in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. The Council for the Judiciary did not support these amendments, and the Legal Commission again held a wide-ranging discussion on each of these arguments of the Council for the Judiciary, rejecting them. So it's 1. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U25	Members support... Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U26	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, To a large extent, this proposal, which has been drawn up by the Legal Commission of the Saeima, cannot be supported. And everything is said by the fact that the Council for the Judiciary, which consists of representatives of several leading institutions, professionals and really smart people in certain areas of justice, does not support it. This is proof of the extent to which this proposal, which we are now looking at, cannot be moved forward. I'll tell you why. The proposed regulation, which really results from the need to reform the Chambers of the Supreme Court, shows us that all judges who are now taking office, for example, as a judge of a regional court and who, for example, could become judges of the Supreme Court with a doctoral degree, thus contributing to the increase of qualitative judges... that the possibility of their future career to become a judge of the Supreme Court will not be possible until these judges of the Supreme Court 6-7, who will now work for some moment in the regional court until they have exercised their privilege in delegated procedure, so to say, their right to pre-empt these leading positions. Namely, in the context of the Supreme Court, there are 48 judges' posts in the Supreme Court in general... if we reject about 7 seats, plus another from the Department of Criminal Law, which has at least 10 seats... Then imagine for how many decades we stop the best shots to the positions of judges of the Supreme Court, for example, from Riga Regional Court, perhaps also from Latgale Regional Court, Kurzeme Regional Court and so on! Moreover, we will not have the contribution that we had in the past, for example, by establishing the Department of Administrative Cases of the Supreme Court, which in fact has been created by selecting judges from the best qualified teaching staff with a doctoral degree from the University of Latvia. What will be the outcome of all this? In support of this proposal, in fact, there is no development in the case of judges who now hold their positions in regional courts and who have a doctorate and a future perspective to work in the court in the future with possible increases and their own capacities... quality improvement, including through the improvement of judicial qualifications, will not happen at all. That is first. Secondly, as a result, we will lose... Well, I didn't predict how much, but certainly it will stop judges from working in the future regional court and also in the district court, because the career ladder is completely exhausted. In other words, they will have to wait for the moment when judges in the Supreme Court will either retire or, if God does not give them, there will be something else with them. There you go! And thirdly, in my opinion, the greatest benefit to the Supreme Court is that for the next 10 years - at least I foresee - the Supreme Court will become a completely closed-end institution, where in no way will there be any qualitative change in relation to the influx of young scientists, for example, from the frame of the University of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U27	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U28	Yeah. I would like to add on behalf of the Commission. Of course, it is a pleasure that Mr. Elksniņš is coming to express his opinion at least at the sitting of the Saeima, because during the sittings of the Legal Commission and the Subcommittee on the Judicial Policy he somehow avoided discussing this matter, but... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Elbow’s intersaxes from the drug.) The last time... You can't talk to the grass, yeah! But at the sitting at which this proposal of the Legal Commission was unanimously supported, you were somehow not here again and you did not give your opinion. So I would like to remind you that these amendments, and above all these arguments, mentioned by Mr Elksniņš on the Supreme Court, are not a regular case. The Supreme Court is reorganized, and in general it is a reform, which has been planned for a long time and for which the Supreme Court has resisted. This means that there will be three clean instances in Latvia, because both now and still... The Chamber of Civil Cases will continue to treat cases as a second instance until January 1, 2017. And with this reform already from 1 January of this year there are three pure instances: the first instance is the district court, the second instance, which looks at appeals is the regional court, and the third instance, which is the cassation instance, is therefore the Supreme Court. And this decision has not been made hasty, but very long... and very long discussions about what is happening with judges of the Supreme Court who have been appointed for life. So there are enough criteria to become a judge of the Supreme Court, including even age censorship, and these judges acquire this status for life, which is guaranteed by the Satversme. And when this court was reorganized, of course, these discussions took place, in which way judges who remain outside the Supreme Court, therefore outside this cassation instance... What happens to them... so that they remain both in the status guaranteed to them by the Constitution and, of course, in the spirit of self-evident remuneration. And that was the decision. And I'll remind you again that we didn't decide here, and we didn't move three judges because it was... When we amended this law, we tried to understand what would happen... that there are three vacancies that were left, these vacancies, so apparently someone, as Mr. Elksniņš said, is better qualified... Maybe not at that age... or something else... And then suddenly it turned out... Then, when the Saeima had already decided on these amendments to the law and on these judges, who should take these seats, of course, another more attractive approach was used: these were suddenly eliminated. Suddenly it turned out that they didn't need it anymore, because... simply to make these judges, who are uncomfortable judges perhaps to someone and tend to express their opinion in a sufficiently loud manner... so that these uncomfortable judges do not get into the Supreme Court. And these are transitional provisions, which only apply to this reorganisation case. So the Supreme Court itself disputes... contests that judges who have worked in the Supreme Court therefore do not correspond to this position of a judge of cassation instance, even though they have worked long enough. And I would like to remind you that exactly the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court was the one who opposed the fact that the previous Saeima, or the one who was before the previous, did not exactly introduce a regular test of qualification of judges. It was the Supreme Court, Mr. Bickovics, who opposed such implementation, which means that judges - and the Supreme Court included - have instruments to check whether the qualification of judges is appropriate. And if this qualification is not met, there are also different mechanisms for this judge to be transferred to another court or to be placed in a lower position. So there are such mechanisms. And another slightly misleading statement made by Mr. Elksniņš on the Department of Administrative Affairs. Yes, it has only been created recently - relatively recently, if we look at the whole court - and there were very many exceptions there. And also looking for shots, selecting shots and going to competition... Really, they were the highest... These are people who perhaps never even worked this traditional... Immediately, people were admitted to the departments of the Supreme Court, who probably had not worked as judges at all and had not worked in district court or regional court, because this court was created again. So in the future, this career ladder will probably also be so normal that a judge from the district court will go to the regional court and then to the Supreme Court accordingly. The Legal Commission therefore supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U30	The proposal is made by Mr Andrejs Elksniņš. And exactly the same, analogue, is 3. - The legal commission's proposal, which thus excludes the rule that was originally applicable. It would be known contrary to the norm advocated in proposal 1... So two. - Member Elksniņa, 3. - Legal commission... The proposals have been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U31	Proposal 2: There is no objection by Members. So Members are in favour. And the 3rd proposal is also supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U32	And 4. - The legal commission's proposal, which sets the time for the law's entry into force - so the day after the announcement. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U33	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U34	Consequently, all the proposals have been examined, and I ask the Legal Commission to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Judicial Power at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. Colleagues, I would like to inform you of the proposals received to amend the agenda of the sitting. The Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, based on Article 86 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, asks to direct the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” without re-examination by the responsible committee to this Saeima sitting. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. Also, the Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, based on Article 86 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, asks to direct the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Law” at the Saeima sitting without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. On the other hand, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, based on Article 86 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, asks to direct the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading without re-examination in the responsible committee to this Saeima sitting. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. We shall continue to examine the agenda. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties), first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U36	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Members! Having examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” submitted by Members, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government decided to support it and direct it to the Parliament at first reading. Let us remember a little how the proposals for these amendments had been made, because already in the first session of the 12th Saeima autumn session of the Republic of Latvia, the President of Latvia drew attention to the fact that strengthening every political party is also the basis for the stability of Latvia and improving the functioning of our Saeima. The presentation was based on the proposals of the expert working group set up by the President of Latvia, which provided recommendations to arrange the system of political parties as well as to improve the system of these political parties. And that is what we have already started to do, because in previous sittings of the Saeima at first reading we have already adopted amendments to three laws: the Political Party Law, the Saeima Election Law and the European Parliament Election Law. The draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)’ is also the initiative of the President of Latvia, which he has used accordingly, and Members have also supported these amendments and tabled proposals. The Commission also supported them, and we believe that the increase in public funding would not only reduce the dependence of political parties on personal donations, but also increase public confidence in political parties. Request to support the draft law at first reading
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U37	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U38	The High Saeima! In the interests of fairness, it should be said that these proposals, formulated in the draft law, are only partly the submission of a group of President's experts. These are the proposals selected from all the other proposals thanks to the excellent work carried out by the five Members of the Saeima who have drafted these draft laws. Are the amendments proposed to the problems of party financing solved? I have to say that it's not. The last pre-election campaign, taking into account the full amount of public funding, cost the parties much more than the part offered by the state budget, which is quite significant! FOR example, it was about 7 percent of all the expenses; FOR example, it was 14 percent of all the expenses; I will not distract your attention with the rest of the numbers. Thus, doubling this funding will not solve this problem. Two points. Right or wrong? This national funding, however, is a support for those parties - not all parties, but only for them! - who already has a history, which has participated in the parliamentary elections and which has received the support of more than 2 percent of voters. This is normal, on the one hand. But on the other hand, it stagnates the party system and prevents new start with state aid, compete in equal elections and municipal elections. That's a point two. It would be better to make the same start-up rules as the funding of the election campaign. Already today, let us say, in the market for electronic media, public support is envisaged, including the funding of private television and radio channels, so that a pre-election debate can be conducted, say, on a level playing field for all those who take part in the elections. It would be fair to say that this part of the State's funding would be directed towards a specific purpose, namely pre-election campaign, in order to be able to educate and show voters who are. The third thing I wanted to say. The Commission, when examining this proposal, did not agree that it was acceptable. The voice has been divided, and there was no unity (from the drug depot. S. Āboltiņa: “There was no dispute!” ), and as a result, it was decided by a majority and the committee led these draft laws to the Saeima at first reading. Given that the budget does not provide resources today and that the question of whether or not the budget can withstand this burden will only be solved in the autumn, but I think it would be more appropriate to reject this draft law at the very beginning (from the room depot. A.Kamiņš: “Right!” ), while maintaining the possibility for the applicants to submit it when the municipal or parliamentary elections are approaching, and thus to pre-elect during the campaign also to tell the voters about the draft laws submitted, while also receiving support or not receiving support. I call for this draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U39	Thank you. The name of Member Nelli Kleinberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U40	Dear colleagues, I, too, will call on you, on behalf of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, not to support amendments to the law on the financing of political parties, which provide for the doubling of public funding for political parties voted by more than 2 percent of citizens with the right to vote in the previous parliamentary elections. In general, such changes to the law would require an additional approximately 600 thousand euros from the state budget every year. Maybe that sum wouldn't be so big, it wouldn't have such a significant impact on the state budget, but... Today, when we are so actively discussing the needs that we have priority in terms of both security issues and social issues, we believe that it is... It would be cynical - don't listen to the voters who actually... In any case, our group voters do not support such a proposal either. At meetings outside Riga, especially at meetings with voters, we hear other questions. The most common question is: Where to find a job, how to provide children with access to quality education, how to pay for health care? We've rarely had to hear... ever had it been to hear the support that the parties should increase their funding, and therefore, it seemed more strange to say in the law that the increase in public funding will not only reduce the dependence of political parties on the donations of natural persons, but will increase public confidence in political parties. Would it not be more logical, however, to encourage any other proposal, such as to attract the funding of these lots for gross domestic product, when the increase in gross domestic product is accompanied by a corresponding increase in the funding of the lots, but the reduction is also accompanied by a corresponding reduction in the financing of the lots. The Association of Latvian Regions calls for tax payers' money not to be wasted in this way in increasing political party funding, but instead to think and decide on a light tax burden for entrepreneurs and people with lower income. The Latvian Association of Regions believes that this is not a question of position or opposition; it is a question of the prestige of politicians in society. We would encourage the branch on which we are sitting to increase the voter's and the public's distrust towards politicians, and we would increase the uncertainty in society, which in the long term could threaten the security of the country. And by calling for a “no” amendment to the law, I would like to conclude with the words of Māra Chakla, who said that “the song is not about shirts, but about consciences.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U41	The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U42	Dear colleagues, First of all, I do not see any difference between today, when we look at that bill, and between all the previous... for three or four sittings of the Saeima where the Greens/Farmers' Union has not supported this kind of draft law and has requested that it be excluded from the agenda. There is no difference between the position of the FAO today, when they do not want to support it, and I think there has not been, and should not be, the previous one, because when suddenly there is a question on the agenda of what to do with pensioners, it is even going to the circus and to such an epopée that the members of the FAO, Mrs Barč and Mr Berzins, are withdrawing their proposals that, if God does not give them, they could in any way have an impact on the budget. Then we should not look like that on this agenda. A.Barch’s intermediate calls: “Be more flexible... !” ), because then the law on increasing party financing will look really good! However, at the same time as we are debating another issue, where one is cut, unable to give or refuse, or something else, then we can take this proposal on the agenda calmly and push the bill forward. I think that this kind of position is largely unfair: it is not fair to your constituents. That is first. Secondly, it is unfair because to a large extent it monopolises the dictatorship and dictatorship of all the parties represented in the Saeima regarding the granting of additional advantages in the funding criteria at the time they are elected. In other words, you yourself want to use this kind of means in the future to continue your existence in Parliament, but all the new political forces that could arise in the future and ask, for example, for an opportunity to participate in elections and to have the right to representation in Parliament, such a right not to allow you to use. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call for this type of proposal not to be supported, however. Of course, I am finally pleased that there has been some enlightenment over the STECF on this issue: they decided not to degrade this issue in substance, but they will still have to make a distinction - to support this proposal or not to support... whether you will support yourself with more money or not.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U43	Mrs. Viņķele, will you have enough five minutes in the debate? ( From the drug depot. I. Viņķelis: “Satisfy!” ) That's enough. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U44	Dear colleagues! ( From the drug: “No dear ones! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) It is a pseudodylem, the dilemma “chicken or egg” that will be the first - a policy that is free of money... from the influence of uncertain donors of origin, or wealthy pensioners. This can be done at the same time! There will not be a moment when, in such a political culture as we are, the moment will come when everyone will be able to say: yes, we have now reached that level, when a safe heart can say that politics can also be... financing the policy process through the budget and taxpayers' money. And listen to that rhetoric: it's not gonna look like... Dear God, you're gonna look good! What will we think about? How will we explain? It's unpopular! Now, who are we politicians if we are not able to explain our decisions?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And the decision has a clear objective: to make political parties more free from the money of the sponsors. ( From the drug: “Oh! Oh, my!” ) And more. All the passionate rhetoricists, those who talk about how immoral it is - to finance political parties from taxpayers' money... I have one very nice proposal for the association of the regions and for the 'Centre of Understanding' - or what you are calling for now: give up the public funding for which you are so terriblely ashamed and which you cannot explain to the pensioners! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Discard your mandate!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U45	Colleagues, I would like to inform you that an application from Members Āboltiņa, Šadurska, Gaida Berzina, Brigmanis and Agešina has been received with a request to declare a break from 12.30 a.m. to 13.30 p.m. at the sitting of the Saeima on 30 April. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the medicine, ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations? Are there any objections to Members? Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the adjournment of the Saeima on 30 April at 12.30 – 13.30! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against - 15, abstaining. Consequently, a decision has been taken. So we will continue the debate after the break. Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. Colleagues! I call for registration before the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U46	Colleagues! Not registered: Guntis Belēvičs, Mārtiņš Bondars... Yes, Lolita Čigāne, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Inese Laizāne... Yes, Alexey Loskutov, Vladimir Niconov, Nikitta Nikiforov, Imants Producer, Sergey Potapkins, Juris Schulcs... Yes, Dzintars Zaķis and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U47	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U48	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Saeima's meeting room so that we can continue the agenda of the Saeima's sitting. I recall that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)’, first reading, is on the agenda. And we shall continue the debate. So the name to the Member Andrejs Elksniņš, for the second time. ( From the drug depot. A. Elksniņš: “I think about it!” ) No, the name of the Member is Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U49	Colleagues, I will therefore talk about the law on the financing of political organisations (parties). This is just one of the issues of the political parties, because we have already decided in the past both to increase the number of participants needed to set up a party and on other issues. Here, perhaps there is an appropriate opportunity for opposition representatives to position themselves and talk about the fact that, you see, at the expense of someone else, someone can now become as richer if, in some other way, it is formulated. But I'll remind you that for years... By June 2010, when we first adopted amendments to the law on party financing, allowing parties to finance also from the state budget, it has always been a question of the fact that Latvia's political system is fragmented and that Latvia's political system depends on the donors, thus allowing so-called sponsors to influence the political system. Thus, until July 2010, when the Saeima adopted amendments to the law on party financing, Latvia and Malta were the only countries in the European Union where parties were not financed from the state budget. So this was the recommendation of both Latvian political scientists and other political scientists to reduce private interests in the political system of parties. The most logical thing is to start financing them from the state budget. So it's a logical question and it's also a logical offer. As early as the 1970s, political scientists Morris Diverge made very clear the tasks of political parties: representation of voters' interests, socialisation of members, appointment of elites and often education of their forgotten voters. This cannot be done without money! But the question is what the origins of this money are. If we do it in a proportionate way, then how it is now being offered... Thus, to increase the quota given to the parties concerned by overcoming the 5 per cent threshold while also maintaining that parties that have reached at least 2, 3 or 4 per cent... and they also have the money accordingly. Since all parties represented in the Saeima are interested in this situation, the results depend on the ability and results of the parties in the elections. In this situation, I call on colleagues to support these amendments to the law on the financing of political organisations (partys) at first reading, because, in the end, a fragmented political environment is not in our interest, and also the dependence on the sponsors of political parties is not... So that I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U50	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U51	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima, Members, colleagues! I call for this proposal to put the increase in party funding first. I agree with Mrs Viņķele that politicians must also be able to make unpopular decisions, but I too... I am not saying that for the sake of the people. Let us remember one other unpopular decision that we were unable to make. It was also in the direction of political funding, and it was at the conclusion of the previous Saeima. It was a question of increasing the remuneration of ministers, which I would consider to be a much more primary issue compared to party financing. At the time, some said that ministers did not need to increase their wages, because they had to work more from patriotism. I cannot agree! Most of them, however, hold on to the view that they should still increase their wages, but not at this moment. The people will not understand! If we want to increase funding for politicians - irrespective of the parties or ministers - then I would say that the order of its line is as follows: firstly, it is a matter of what is currently being put into the drawer - ministerial salaries, if we can afford it in terms of money, if we can and can justify it for the people. That's the first. And the second question in the order of the line... Maybe... Looks like it could be in a drawer right now... There is an increase in party funding, which is undoubtedly a very important issue, very important, and we need to come to it as soon as possible. But the first line is increasing ministerial pay. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U52	Thank you. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U53	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! This debate on party financing is beginning to remind me very much of the debate on the adoption of the zero declaration. I remember that when I was first elected to the Saeima, Mr Šleser was sitting around where the Neighbours sit now. And about there was that oligarch party. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Of course!” ) And then it was... You should have heard the arguments against the zero declaration in the 10th Saeima! ‘ The people will not understand!” - “Why don’t you understand?” - “Pensionaries... “What will happen to pensioners?” - “Well, how?Oh, no, no, no, no, They will be robbed when they go to the bank with their big money! Or worse, they'll be killed because they have a lot of money! See? And worse... Well, maybe not crazy, but... they will not be able to excite their wealth from the earth because it is winter. There's winter, and the earth's hardened! See, the people will not understand us.” Well, then I asked him: “How many pensioners in Estonia were killed? How many robbed a pensioner in Estonia? Did they find it difficult to excite their wealth from the frozen land?’ Silence. And remember when the Estonians accepted that zero declaration! You know, it's a shame to admit in 1993. And when did we accept it? Only when the Reform Party came in here and we broke resistance. And in the 10th Saeima, though the oligarchist party was in a great minority, and as if the coalition had a majority, how did it vote? We fell! So I'd like to ask: why are the Estonians in front of us? By the way, it was talked about yesterday in the program “Strengtheningumsund”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš' intermediate calls.) Mr Bojar also spoke about the inability of their local government reform. I would like to ask: how many Estonian parties are financed by the State, by the State's taxpayers? How much? 80 percent! I think we're only 20 percent. And then we are surprised that their political parties are much more independent and make the right decisions for society. They have higher pensions, higher police salaries, higher doctors' salaries - everything is higher! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš' intermediate calls.) Pensions too. Now you will say yes, but the egg comes before the chicken. But I think the chicken comes before the eggs. And I think if we can join the rest of Europe, then maybe we could even get that we can give more pensioners all over soon, already next year. Then we will be independent. But when I came here walking through the city, one told me: “You know why you don’t want to finance parties from the state budget? Because there are parties that are interested in giving money to parties just a small clique, big money-giver. Such lots are known.’ Remember, I didn't... Last time I spoke about returning property to Jews, I used the word statemanship. And that's, "the worthy act of a stateman or a state woman". Don't tell me the people won't understand! I also meet the voters, and the voters fully understand and tell me that I voted with both hands for this. ( INTERPRETATIONS FROM THE GROUP: “Stop! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U54	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U55	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! First of all, if this law is passed, it can only be applied to the next Saeima, (From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “That’s it!” ) and it should be understood by everyone. This Saeima cannot apply this law to itself. The next Saeima, for its part, can, of course, postpone and reduce this funding if she so wishes. But as a result, this law does not compete with the currently pressing problems of pensioners. And the other. Let us see how those who have spoken about reducing the power of money in the elections will vote when such proposals reach the Saeima and are voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U56	Thank you. Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U57	Honourable Members! Today's discussion led me to two lessons that I would like to share with you very briefly. The first knowledge is related to the problems arising from Article 66 of the Satversme. If the Saeima takes a decision relating to unforeseen expenditure in the budget, the decision must also provide for the funds from which these expenditures are to be covered. If there is motivation, then these problems can be dealt with very effectively. I wish members of the coalition to find such a motivation also when the issue of the non-negotiable minimum pensions and many other issues which have so far been opposed to this Article of the Satversme will be examined. And the second is whether the proposed draft law will increase party freedom. In my opinion, freedom is either there or not. And increasing freedom anyway still means greater or less deprivation. The extent to which the parties represented in the Saeima experience such captivity will be demonstrated by the following vote. The Latvian Association of Regions will not support this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U58	Thank you. In the next debate, Mr Cilevičs, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U59	Dear colleagues, Very often the lack of arguments is compensated by strong rhetoric, with methods that... Mr. Leinny, it was really nice to listen to you, well, but somehow it didn't sound too convincing. I can understand that the most serious problems with donors are those parties that receive the most donations. And which party has the most donations? We know for a Unity. Well, you don't need your domestic... addressing internal problems at the expense of legislation! You are following some very dogmatic considerations, how much the parties should pay from the budget so that they can fully organise the pre-election campaign, thus becoming completely independent of the donors. Well, I'm sorry, that's... And another moment. You talk a lot about ethics, about morality... You speak dogmatically. ( From the drug depot. I. Viņķelis: “You are talking!” ) Well, think about the situation! We are now being put to the vote on an issue in which we have a very personal interest as politicians and as party members. Is there no formal or informal conflict of interest here? We represent those parties, and we are voting in favour of giving more money to the parties from the national budget. Do you not see some ethical problems here? Would it not be fair, however, to ask this question to decide on the people, (from the hall depot. I. Viņķelis: “Oi! Oh! Oi!’ ) to hold a popular vote on this issue? If Mr. Leiens is so sure that voters will be "for" then why are you so afraid of it? Because, you see, on the one hand, you have very beautiful slogans... Very dogmatic, but when you get to the point, you do not want to follow the principles that you have preached. I believe that perhaps there is also a certain truth in those slogans of yours, but at the moment make such a decision... that, in my view, would be simply immoral, because there are much more important things to spend money on and think about. You want to... Let's think, but first of all let's take care of us, politicians, and only then for all the others. I think it is deeply discrediting these noble slogans that you preach. I cannot under any circumstances support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U60	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņa
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U61	Yes, hello, honourable colleagues, once again! It's a number of things. First - about history, then - about conscience, then - about works and words. First of all, history. Latvia was the last country in the European Union to introduce political funding... state funding for political parties. And at the long time in 2004, at the World Anti-Corruption Conference, I was very surprised to learn that we are the only country in Europe to talk about the great problems of corruption and what causes it. And this is one of the reasons behind this, which is particularly the result of political corruption and its consequences... the consequences of having one or the other decision and having or not been taken. And I'm not going to tell you further about this story. I can tell Mr. Elksniņš right away: Mr. Elksniņš, you can't worry, it's not in this room... There is no vote in this Chamber on this draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Elksniņš laughs.) And don't embarrass the greens and the farmers here, they have decided exactly that in their group: if you can't give the pensioners, then you don't have to give them to political parties. So, of course, we're calling for everyone to express their opinion here, but that's why it's... And that's the short question... The short proverb in this regard, Nellie, is: “Who pays, order music!” And don't send that music... Yeah, he's ordering... Before the elections someone always orders music... for those poor pensioners too, but no one in general sends their music so that the country can reform and take some unpopular decision, and so that the country can develop faster and better, including the party system. Of how stable its system will be, how confident it will be that it is able to carry out reforms in the country and what the country needs... not those you can talk to in some way and who louder demand what is due to them than that... thinking about collective development... So that's what causes these problems. The question that has already been asked five times is whether we can do it right now or not... Thank you, Mr Cilinski, who is one of the most experienced Members in this Chamber... We cannot decide on ourselves! It is a question of whether we are in those expert proposals... There is no Member here or any political party here now: 'Give us more money for this!' A whole group of experts, really respectable people, has been organising a study for a long time, both surveying people and researching other countries... especially those which have democracy and which, with the development of the country, are all right... They studied how this was going, and it was their proposal. And the President really came with this proposal. In my opinion, it is also such a very respectable example of a law to be initiated or amended - that a conference was also held before... Even an international conference, where people from outside looked at how we look and how it is. It will not be a lifeline and a miracle if we increase or increase. But, as I said, those who are very concerned about their conscience do not worry: there are no votes in this Chamber, and this draft law will be rejected! But, of course, it's not politicians, it's... The public could be sure that those decisions... that decision-makers do so for its benefit. Mr Dolgopolov also spoke: well, there should be that and that... I very much like to say from this troupe that he should do it, and that he should do it and that he should do it in this legislation, but who will then submit it in this legislation? This is our task! We are legislators, and we have a Legal Office if we do not learn perhaps legally correct writing. And we can also attract with the funding that we have an expert to make this draft law more qualitative. Then let's put it and let's go ahead, and we'll discuss it then, and not in such a form of probability... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The other one. For the Association of the Regions... I really like your way... You: “My... “ Yes, I like it! ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) I like your attitude and you really... It's a conscience. And for that conscience it is almost: “Through him, but with a soft heart: when we see a daily meal we weep, immediately in your pocket you will beat up your hand, and you will pull out your mouth.” But did you, let us take it, ask the entrepreneur Janson, what is his interest in financing the Bondara campaign, these many magazines and all this? Well, ask him why he's interested, is it really for some public good? Why exactly this person is donating money to carry out this campaign, in which at the moment Mārtiņš Bondars... Is that so? Because you already don't have this funding. You complain about it: “No... What you from the country is bad, for it is taken away from the pensioners." But when someone with enough money comes to your party and offers it to you, it seems normal for you. And he probably doesn't ask anything against you because, of course, you already have a conscience... And that's just how simple it is to look at my words and don't listen to my work... or vice versa. Because at the moment it happens that before you very critically criticise someone, you may first look at yourself. And that to me, too, for the Association of Regions... So... CONSUMERITY will vote in favour of these amendments because we understand very well that this is not to increase funding for one, the other or the third party sitting here, but another kind of... how to organise a democratic system, a party system to make decisions in the interests of the majority, not in the interests of some people, who really are not... This is not the only way, but I say, “But don’t worry, Elkney! No votes!’
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U62	Name to Member Andrejs Elksniņš, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U63	Dear colleagues, The composition of the words “very honorable man”, which comes from the mouth of Unity, is like a sign of quality for time, and it is also strengthened in the nation, but the question is absolutely different. Indeed, there are arguments that the funding of political parties must be adequate, proportionate and will greatly strengthen the independence of the decisions taken and so on. And it is absolutely true to Mr Cilinski that the draft law and the new regulation will come into force with the next parliament. What, then, is the year before the next parliament? ( Interface from the Hall: “Trust! ” ) Four almost, right? And the first work that the new Saeima has undertaken is to increase funding for the next parliament in the future. This is first and foremost. In the second place, the Unity now tells everyone here how terrible and gloomy the conditions are regarding possible political corruption and their decision-making. Well, please put concrete facts on the table! For example, a sponsor comes to you and wants to “fear” a decision. ( From the drug depot. S. Āboltiņa: “Speak about yourself, Elksny, about yourself!” ) You told him - no! You tell him - no, you have a lot of influence, you cannot take the money, and you want extra public funding. Our position on this issue is very clear: we cannot accept this funding in a context where we absolutely cannot increase it for other sectors, and these are really lies, but... What else would I like to say? You really depend very much on the sponsor's money and their influence when you could actually even say that decisions are being bought, because the Anti-Corruption Office has announced that parties have never been generously donated as they did last year in the last 12 years. And the biggest recipient of donations is the UNITY, which had donated 1.2 million euros over the last year. All the rest of the world on this background - green farmers, FAILURE, the Association of Regions and “From the heart to Latvia” - even if you don’t have enough money to do... Even though, no, I guess we're gonna get everybody together... And you also spent EUR 1.3 million last year. So where did you get that pain? Well, then keep taking that money from those people who walk with you! Why, then, do you still keep milking that country? Why don't we get those 600,000? Will we repair a church or may we build a school? Of course not through the entrepreneurs you support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U64	The name's Sergey Dolgopolov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U65	My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to say that it is not about it - whether or not to be party funding from the state budget. That decision has already been made several years ago, but it is about the pace at which and to what extent we will increase this funding for the parties, as long as it will be able to completely avoid the assistance of sponsors, because the solution proposed does not at all address the main problem. One point. Naturally, you can also talk about whether it is worth financing parties from the national budget, because Europe's example is not the only one in the world. The United States collects billions of dollars of pre-election funds, and only now, as an inspiration from our discussions, they have begun to discuss the fact that perhaps they should also reduce the influence of their sponsors on congressmen, senators and Presidential states. The third thing I want to say. Don't blame it as it isn't! Maybe follow the legislative process that is taking place in the Saeima, Mrs. Āboltiņa! That norm has been incorporated into the law, which I am talking about. Its possibility of pre-election in the act of agitation is provided for. The problem in this case is not the lack of law, but that in the budget, as your financial ministers still say, there is no funds. And that's why their rule can be implemented very, very relatively. Therefore, it seems to me that it would perhaps be right to talk here not about general matter, but about whether the proposed draft law deals with the tasks that those who submitted it are trying to formulate. In my view, no. Or something else to do - of course, yes. This is our joint work and our joint task. But the existing law to support... it's not about it - morally or unmortally... It's just stupid... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U66	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U67	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to remind everyone once again that our group is called the 'Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia'. Please use the name correctly, not shorten it, because otherwise anyone else can shorten one of your group names! That is first. Secondly. I would like to say about this draft law that the increase in funding, however... The increase in funding is so big... to put it this little way... that it will not solve the problem. If we are talking about strengthening political parties, then this should not be done with money, but, in my opinion, for example, with basic, equal conditions. For example, each party needs premises in Riga, and they are usually sought in the center of Riga. Why could there be no possibility, for example, of setting up party offices from which state real estate objects? As a result, the costs of the parties would also be reduced. Next example: What has already been said, it seems to me that Mr Dolgopolova has the opportunity to debate more, to express his opinion, to argue on television, radio and so on. And there are also other different ways in which we can really strengthen political parties and, accordingly, achieve the aim of this draft law: to increase public confidence in our parties without increasing funding. If Mrs Āboltiņa or someone else has any evidence of any unfair financing, for example, in Mr Bondar's case, we ask him to present this evidence without delay. And in conclusion. It happened quite accidentally that a voter sent me such a card - with a request to hand it over to Solvita Āboltiņa - which raises the issue of her relationship with Savicka. That's what I gave you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Welcome to the Chamber.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U68	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U69	Dear colleagues, such an interesting debate came out. One of my fellow Members said that one of the tasks of political parties is also public education. I think everything is fine here: our society is smart. Because it wasn't for nothing from my colleagues here... with such hidden envy was said ( FROM a fraction: “No envy! ” ) that the Unity has received the largest donations. Logical! But in fact, it is already very important that those political parties that cannot... on which policy donors are not ready to donate... so that they can work, too. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps forgive me a little bit of a quote, but this debate has moved me very much to do so. ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “But will it be moral?” ) I would like to quote Friedrih Schilleru, who has been quoted in various languages, but one of the possible translations in Latvian is as follows: “Gods themselves fight against stupidity in vain.” Thank you. ( A certain group of Members applauds its unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U70	The name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U71	Yes, I apologise to the Speaker of the Saeima and also to you that I will not talk about the subject, but I will gladly read to you this greeting from... Where the Occupation Museum is without... and the word “Riga” is also written “Riga”... Well, it's so close... So, is the checker Savickis the only chance for you to be with someone in the Saeima's log? Then I'd be happy to answer... The Saeima's log is in Opera, and there's a checker Savickis, there's no one to be, and there's the way other people are. The details form a common image... It hurts! I can agree with the person that the details create a collage - both when you speak in latgalian and when you do not speak in latgalian and how your party forms a collage about the Saeima. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Free, Solvita, Free!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U72	That concludes the debate, too. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U73	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, it could only be said that the really decision to hand over the first reading was not unanimous, but the Commission really thought that we would get a lot of... and today I am convinced that it would probably be - there would be a lot of important proposals and not only about the financing of these parties, but also about other issues, because this law already does not consist of just one article that increases this funding. And that is why the Commission's proposal was to set a very long deadline for the submission of proposals, which would have been on 1 September 2015, but will, of course, be decided on by Members. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U74	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 40, for - 12. The draft law is not supported. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on the movement of pyrotechnic articles, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U75	Colleagues! The draft law provides for the harmonisation of requirements for the manufacture, conformity assessment, marking, storage, marketing, purchase, transport and use of pyrotechnic articles with two European Union Directives. In view of the technical nature of the draft law and the fact that the deadline for implementing the directive is 1 July this year, I call on the Commission to establish the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U76	So we must vote on urgency first. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Pyrotechnic Products”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U77	I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U78	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Pyrotechnic Products”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U79	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 12 May, second reading - Saeima at its meeting on 11 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U80	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 12 May this year. And consideration at the Saeima sitting on June 11, this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on detention, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U81	Dear colleagues, This draft law is aimed at regularising the former employees of state law enforcement institutions... the arrangements for their detention, as well as a number of domestic prisoners, and the minimum area to be served by each prisoner. Three proposals have been submitted by the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. In a rather intensive debate within the Commission, all these proposals have been supported. The proposal 1 concerns, as I said, the arrangements for holding former staff in public institutions. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U83	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U85	And the proposal 3 has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U87	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U89	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U90	There are no other proposals. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 21 May this year. The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.29/Lp12), second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U91	Hello! The draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.29/Lp12) deals with the field of advertising, and is mainly related to the harmonisation of several regulatory acts and the fact that it is clarified what is doing. Before the second reading, the Legal Commission received 18 proposals and they were examined by the Commission and the relevant decisions were adopted. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U93	The same is true of 2. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U95	3. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It is partly supported and incorporated in an improved version of the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U96	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U97	4. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U99	5. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U101	6. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U103	7. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is partly supported and included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U104	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U105	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U106	Members support:
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U107	9. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Partly supported and included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U108	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U109	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U111	11. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is partly supported and included in the next proposal - 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U112	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U113	12. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U115	13. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U117	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U118	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U119	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U120	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U121	16. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U123	17. - a proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs for a deadline that has already passed. This was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U124	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U125	And 18. - Legal commission proposal with a deadline of 1 July. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U127	The Commission therefore invites Members to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U128	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.29/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U129	Call for a deadline for submission of proposals on 5 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U130	There are no other proposals. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 5 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U132	Thank you. The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No. 192/Lp12), second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U133	Thank you. Before the second reading, the Legal Commission examined these amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, and these amendments concern veterinary... for certain veterinary offences. The Commission has not received any proposal and we therefore call for support to be given to this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U134	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.192/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U135	We invite you to submit your proposals by 5 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U136	Does Mr Urbanovich have any other proposal? Please turn on the microphone for Urbanovich!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U137	If until May 5, it means never, because tomorrow is a holiday, and May 4 is also a holiday. Either up to and including 5 May or up to 6 May! You did not say that, nor did you talk about the previous draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U138	It is always counted.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U139	So 5 May is the last date for submitting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U140	There are no other proposals. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 5 May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U141	Including!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U142	By May 5, it means including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U144	The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.149/Lp12), second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U145	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” with registration No.149Lp12. Eight proposals have been received for the second reading. The proposal was received from Karina Korna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, and it provides for responsibility for disrupting the investigation of railway accidents. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U147	Proposal 2 is a proposal from the Legal Bureau clarifying the wording of the law. This proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U149	Proposal No 3 is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which also clarifies the wording of the law. This too has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U151	The proposal has been received from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Corn, and this includes responsibility for disrupting the investigation of maritime accidents and incidents. The Commission has also supported these proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U153	The proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Korna, provides for the exclusion of paragraph 3 of Section 220(2) of this Law, because the norm of this Law has already been included in Proposal 7, which provides for the addition of a new article to the law. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U155	The 6th proposal, which has also been submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Korna, determines which controls the procedure for using the Latvian flag on board ships. This commission has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U157	The 7th proposal was also received from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Corna, and this determines the rights of officials of the Bureau of Investigation of Transport Accidents and Incidents. This too has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U158	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U159	Finally, the 8th proposal, also received from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Corna, sets out the procedure for appeal against the decisions of the above-mentioned Bureau. And the Commission has also supported these proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U161	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U162	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.149/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U163	The Legal Commission will wait for your proposals until 5 May at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U164	The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 5 May. Thank you. The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No. 179/Lp12), second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U165	Thank you. These amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations were planned for more timber origin issues. And two proposals have been received before the second reading of this draft law, both of which are editorial. The proposal is a proposal from the Legal Office and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U167	Proposal 2 is also a proposal from the Legal Office and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U169	We therefore call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U170	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No. 179/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U171	The Commission will welcome the proposals by 17.00 on 5 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U172	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 5 May at 5 p.m. Thank you. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia", second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U173	Good afternoon, colleagues! Amendments to the Latvian Penalty Enforcement Code are similar in terms of content to amendments to the law on detention procedures, for which I have already mentioned, but since the punishment usually lasts longer, there are more proposals here as well. All these proposals have been debated by the Commission, and I therefore ask for your support as well. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U175	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U177	3. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U179	4. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U181	5. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U183	6. - similar. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U185	Proposal 7 has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U187	Proposal 8 has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U189	Proposal No 9. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U190	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U191	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U193	11. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U195	12. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U197	13. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U199	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U201	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U203	16. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U205	17. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U207	The 18th proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U209	19. - Minister Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U211	Proposal 20: Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U213	A lot of those pages... So, well, it must be... The Bible says: “Watching is what you are saying. ” — Isa. ... !” )Yes, yes, yes... It's been past me a little bit of a... 21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also Mr Rasnač's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U215	Please support the draft law at second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U216	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading is therefore supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U217	Proposals are expected for the third reading by 21 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U218	So the proposals are due by 21 May this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on insurance and reinsurance, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U219	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima for the first reading has examined the far-reaching draft law submitted by the government, which, in the event of its entry into force, will further regulate the entire insurance and reinsurance market. Already in 2009, the Council of Europe issued a directive... The European Parliament and the Council issued the Solvency II Directive, which, in the future, bases the calculation of capital requirements for insurance undertakings on an overall assessment of risks, including on the market, compared to the previous Solvency I regime, which based capital adequacy requirements only on the amount of premiums and charges. The new law provides for the transposition of all the requirements of this Directive and, in the case of the entry into force of this law, the existing laws governing this area, which are the law on insurance undertakings and their supervision, and the law on reinsurance, will become obsolete. Colleagues, please support this draft law at first reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U220	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on insurance and reinsurance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U221	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 15 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U222	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 15 May of this year, including. The next item is the draft law on statistics, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U223	Dear colleagues, The Commission has examined the Statistical Law. During the course of the examination, 75 proposals have been added to the project, which I would also like to present to you. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U225	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U227	Similarly 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U229	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U231	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been supported and included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U232	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U233	6. - Commission's proposal... the proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U235	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U237	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U239	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U241	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U243	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U245	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U247	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been supported and included 14. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U248	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U249	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U251	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U253	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U255	Similarly, 17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U257	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U259	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U261	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in the already examined 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U262	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U263	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U265	22. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U267	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U269	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U271	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U273	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U275	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U277	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U279	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U281	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U283	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U285	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U287	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U289	34. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U291	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U293	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U295	37. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U297	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U299	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U301	40. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U303	41. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U305	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U307	43. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U309	44. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U311	45. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U313	46. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U315	47. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U317	48. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 49 have been partially supported and included. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U318	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U319	49. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U321	50. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U323	51. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U325	52. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U327	53. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 54 have been partially supported and included. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U328	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U329	54. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U331	55. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U333	56. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U335	57. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U337	58. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U339	59. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U341	60. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U343	61. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 62 have been supported and included. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U344	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U345	62. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U347	63. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U349	64. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U351	65. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U353	66. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U355	67. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U357	68. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U359	69. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U361	70. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U363	71. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U365	72. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U367	73. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U369	74. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U371	75. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported. ( Intercretion from the drug: “Urage! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U373	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U374	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on statistics! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U375	The Commission will welcome the proposals by 7 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U376	So the proposals are due by 7 May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U377	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U378	The next item on the agenda is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Procedure for the Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U379	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” (No 231/Lp12) is under consideration at first reading. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Health, the applicant - Cabinet of Ministers. The second annex of the law, which contains a list of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, is intended to be amended and sets out the minimum level of criminal liability. The draft law is very important, as certain substances are currently only subject to a temporary ban. And that is to say, dealing with the substances in question can now also be a responsibility, but the temporary ban is in force for one year, so until mid-June. It is therefore important to criminalise the handling of these relevant substances as well. After assessing the situation, the Legal Commission invites to recognise this draft law as urgent and to support it at first reading. I then ask you to support urgency first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U380	We must therefore vote on urgency first. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U381	Please also support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U382	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U383	Let us wait until 6 May and for the second reading until 14 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U384	Thank you. Consequently, proposals should be submitted by 6 May of this year, and consideration at the parliamentary sitting - this year14. in May. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U385	Dear colleagues, The Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima has drafted draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” based on... the information received from the municipalities and also from the Association of the Great Cities on the necessary amendments. And, in the area of public procurement, a new European directive has been adopted in 2014, providing for significantly greater flexibility in the possibilities for amending procurement contracts. In particular, it provides that contracts below certain price thresholds may also be amended up to 10 per cent in the case of goods or service contracts, and up to 15 per cent in the case of works contracts. Urgency is based on the consideration that the absorption of funding for the 2014-2020 programming period of the European Union funds, including the conclusion of procurement contracts and also execution, will soon start. The 2015 construction season, which has already started and during which, as in previous years, many cases of necessary and appropriate amendments to procurement contracts are likely to be identified, are also approaching. Therefore, the request to support these amendments, which will also be an important aid to municipalities, and to make these amendments urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U386	Thank you. The urgency must be put to the vote first. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. The Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U387	The deadline for tabling the proposals is 7 May and we will discuss the second reading at the meeting on 14 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U388	Thank you. Consequently, the proposals should be submitted by 7 May this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 14 May this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Public Service Procurement, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U389	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has drafted a draft law “Amendment to the Law on Public Service Procurement”. And what has been said about the previous draft laws is also fully applicable to this draft law, because the new directive of the European Union lays down an analogous framework for amending contracts also in public service contracts. And we are asking for urgency for this draft law, too, and we are asking for support for it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U390	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Public Service Providers’ Procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U391	Request for support at first reading
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U392	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Public Service Providers' Procurement"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U393	We will wait until 7 May and consider the proposals at the Saeima meeting on 14 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U394	Thank you. Consequently, proposals must be submitted by 7 May of this year (including), and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 14 May of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U395	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U396	The next item is the draft law on excise duty, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U397	Dear President, Honourable Members! The amendment to the Law “On Excise Tax” concerns point 76 of the transitional provisions and concerns very important issues regarding the calculation and refund of the excise duty on heavy-duty fuel and on tractors. These amendments provide for the entry into force of the Appendix to Articles 14 and 18 on 1 July of this year, but everything relating to fuel labelling, colouring and other conditions will enter into force on 30 October 2015 in order to be able to discuss a few more issues. Please accept that the draft law is urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U398	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Excise Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U399	Request for support at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U400	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U401	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - May 5 by 12 noon, and for the second reading - May 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U402	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U403	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U404	Consequently, the final day for the submission of proposals - 5 May this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 7 May. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda draft decision “On the establishment of commissions for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U405	Yes, honourable colleagues, let us continue to work! I propose that an additional committee be set up for the draft law on excise duty, which would be the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. And here, above all, there are a number of reasons. The Ministry of Finance has presented this year data on the proportion of illicit alcohol in 2015, and according to the Ministry of Finance alone, it accounts for at least 32 percent. At the same time, there is also one study - the promotion work sent to me by colleagues to get to know me in the economic sciences of the University of Latvia, which shows to a large extent that the proportion of illicit alcohol has increased twice on average between 2008 and 2013 and is now at least 25-40 percent in this category. And there is a very well-founded view of the fact that the price of alcohol is rising, i.e., there is an increase in the price of alcohol. As a result, legal alcohol consumption is reduced. And at the same time, the legislator should also look at what action can be taken in parallel with this concept... enhanced action to promote the fight against and monitoring of the illicit alcohol market. I would therefore ask for another commission to be set up for this draft law, which could assess how well our services are working, particularly with regard to combating smuggling, so that we do not acquire a much higher proportion of illegal alcohol, particularly in Latgale, as a result of this increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U406	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the establishment of commissions for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 48, refraining from - 2. Consequently, the draft decision has not been adopted. Colleagues, I would like to inform you about Members' questions. The question of Members Agešina, Urbanoviča, Nikiforova, Elksniņa and Adamsons to the Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile “On the Number of Pupils in Schools and Payers”. Therefore, a written reply was received, satisfying the applicants. The question shall be deemed to have been answered. On the issue of Membership Silver, Shimfas, Baloža, Maya and Curare, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Development of the Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening”. The question was addressed to the Minister of Education and Science, Mārīte Seile. The response received is satisfactory for the applicants. The question shall be deemed to have been answered. Regarding Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, the Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss “On the economic justification of “Rail Baltica” project and its real impact on the Latvian economy” has received a written reply that does not satisfy the applicants. However, the Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. It is therefore transferred to the following week. In connection with Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova's question to Ilmars Rimšēvičs, President of the Bank of Latvia, about the programme of the European Central Bank "Purchase of Advanced Assets" has received a written reply which satisfies the applicants. The question is therefore considered to have been answered. I must inform you that the sitting of questions and answers will therefore not take place today, because four questions are considered to be answered, but Minister Matīss cannot come today. There has been a question from Members from Members Zarins, Elksniņš, Tutin, Agešin and Pimenov on "On measures for economic development". It shall be forwarded to the Prime Minister, Laimdota Straujuma, for a reply. A question from Members raised by Members Kūtris, Silver, Meija, Šics, Chair and Symphas, ‘On the system of tolerance’, has been received. It shall be forwarded to the Prime Minister, Laimdota Straujuma, for a reply. The question has been asked by Members Elksniņš, Arthur Rubiks, Orlovs, Dolgopolovs and Raimonds Rubiks, about the situation in Daugavpils regional hospital. It is handed over to Minister for Health Guntis Belēvičs for his reply. And a question was received from Members on the procedure for financing pre-planned measures of national importance, tabled by Members Silver, Platoper, Meija, Mežeckis and Balodis. It shall be forwarded to the Prime Minister, Laimdota Straujuma, for a reply. Consequently, the agenda of the Saeima sitting has been examined and we need to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Another moment until the results of the registration are prepared, and then the name to Gunārs Kūtris, a member of the Saeima Secretary to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U407	Dear colleagues, Not registered for this moment: Guntis Belēvičs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Lolita Čigāne, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Romanas Mežeckis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Nikiforovs, Sergejs Potapkins, Juris Viļums... Yes, Dzintars Zaķis and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-04-30-PT12-297-U408	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
