ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on October 1st. Before starting to review the agenda of a sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau, the submitted amendments to the agenda of the sitting should be considered. Members of the Saeima Liepiņš, Šics, Ruks, Bondars, Bite and Viļums inform that they have withdrawn their signatures to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, therefore this draft law is excluded from the agenda of the Saeima meeting. Members of the Saeima Liepiņš, Viļums, Bite, Šics, Ruks and Bondars are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 1 October and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” (No 353/Lp12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda of the sitting has therefore been amended. We are starting to discuss the agenda for today's sitting. The first section - "Review of the report". ‘ The Latvian Sustainable Development Strategy until 2030, the National Development Plan 2014-2020 and the Report on Monitoring the Implementation of the Activities planned by the Cabinet of Ministers led by Laimdotas Straujuma.” Name to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, Members, Ladies and gentlemen! The People's Parion says that the morning hour of gold is in the mouth. I would like to paraphrase this popular idea even more during the centuries: today's work shows tomorrow. I am here this morning at the Saeima House to submit a document “Sustainable Development Strategy of Latvia by 2030, National Development Plan 2014-2020 and Report on monitoring the implementation of the activities planned by the Cabinet of Ministers led by Laimdotas Straujuma”. In my address, I will briefly focus on the government's progress this year and today's priorities for further action. The report submitted to the Saeima is based on the contental structure of “Latvia 2030” and “National Development Plan 2020” and consists of five major chapters: assessment of the achievement of strategic indicators, economic growth, human capital and reliability, development and sustainability of territories, as well as assessment of national security indicators. The report concludes with conclusions and forecasts, as well as recommendations for further action. Overall, the analysis shows a stable progress towards achieving the country's long-term development objectives. I invite you to use the analysis and conclusions of the report presented to you today in support of various policy initiatives, working on both legislative initiatives and the annual state budget discussion process. Honourable Members! ‘ Latvia 2030", National Development Plan and Government Declaration are the main benchmarks that direct the daily work of the Cabinet of Ministers, according to our most important priorities – economic growth, the quality of life of the family and individual in Latvia and security of the state. At the same time, we must be aware that the government's performance indicators and budgetary opportunities must be seen in the context of political, economic, social and even climate change in Europe and the world. As for the progress made by the government during the year, I would like to focus first of all on the Latvian Presidency, which now seems so self-evident, but last year it was worrying for both government ministers and the government as a whole. Six months in the run-up to the Council of the European Union was an opportunity and a time of scrutiny. I am proud of my government ministers, officials, diplomats, Latvian creative people and anyone who, through his work during the Presidency, proved that we are a modern, open, well-organized European country. The Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union has taken full advantage of its opportunities and has made considerable progress in its priorities: a competitive Europe, a digital Europe and a Europe involved. During the six-month period, an agreement was reached on the creation of a European Fund for Strategic Investments, stimulating economic growth throughout the European Union. Another important priority for the European Union right now is the European Energy Union, to which the Latvian Presidency paid special attention. Ministers responsible for energy adopted a decision on the implementation of the European Energy Union. In line with the objective of improving the European Union's single digital market, the Presidency managed to reach an agreement between the Member States on a common Council position on the data protection regulation. The Presidency also reached a preliminary agreement with the European Parliament on the abolition of roaming bonuses and open internet access. The Presidency also reached an agreement with the European Parliament on the basic principles of the Directive on network and information security. And I would like to mention that all these works have not been carried out for several years. The Eastern Partnership Summit in Riga took place in May. The Latvian Presidency also paid special attention to the renewal of the European Union-Central Asia strategy. But there were also challenges, especially in the field of security. The situation in Ukraine, the European Union's response to the annexation of Crimea, was dominated by all Heads of State and Government meetings. The government was actively involved in efforts to stabilise the situation in Ukraine by providing political support and humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian population. Latvia also argued for the introduction of sanctions against Russia, which should remain in force until the provisions of the Minsk peace treaty were fully implemented. Significant challenges to international security have been and still remain in other regions - the Middle East and North Africa. At the beginning of the year, we faced new challenges to the security of the European Union, which have revealed the European Union's weaknesses in the fight against terrorism and the pressure exerted by unprecedented migratory flows on the external borders. The current situation in Europe with regard to the exceptional and disproportionate influx of persons is dramatic. Such a humanitarian crisis has not been experienced since the end of the Second World War. Italy and Greece, the first to face the disproportionate flow of these persons, cannot deal with their multiple asylum applications alone. On behalf of solidarity, Latvia has decided to move some persons in need of international protection from other Member States of the European Union and third countries. We are well aware that the decision on the relocation of asylum seekers does not solve the causes of the problem. Our position is therefore clear: the solution to the causes of the current problem cannot be found in any permanent mechanism for the distribution of asylum seekers. Instead, every effort should be made to strengthen the external borders of the European Union, bearing in mind the changing nature of migration flows and paying due attention not only to the current hottest border region but also to the eastern border. Also, every effort must be made to improve and intensify cooperation with third countries, because only through strategic cooperation with partners will the European Union be able to better manage and control migration. The third direction in which Europe must work is an effective return policy, which we have always supported and will continue to support, so that those who have arrived only in search of a better life and who have no legitimate reason to stay in our countries are returned as soon as possible to their countries of origin or their former residence. Until now, Latvia has not been involved in asylum-seekers’ resettlement programmes. The number of asylum seekers arriving in Latvia is relatively small. That is why, in July, I set up a high-level inter-institutional working group with State Secretaries from several ministries, as well as external experts from other institutions and non-governmental organisations. The working group has developed a suitable model for Latvia for the reception of asylum seekers and the integration of refugees and persons with subsidiary status, indicating the specific tasks and the authorities responsible for their implementation. On September 29, the Cabinet conceptually supported the Indicative Action Plan for the Movement and Admission of Persons in Need of International Protection in Latvia. The task force has been given the task of clarifying the action plan and the necessary funding by 20 October. The final report will be reviewed in November. Honourable Members! The government's priorities are closely linked to the development of the state budget. The priorities of the state budget were listed already in spring and are: internal and external security of the state, public health, education and reduction of inequality. As strengthening national security is one of government's priorities, the draft budget provides for an increase in defence funding to 2 percent of gross domestic product as early as 2018. The strengthening and development of self-defence capabilities is a priority of Latvian military security, therefore work is ongoing on the implementation of the project of mechanization of the National Armed Forces, development of air defence capabilities, strengthening of the Earthguard, as well as the construction and development of the infrastructure of the defence sector. As regards internal security, the government has addressed issues related to the fight against organised crime, the prevention of trafficking in human beings and the spread of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in a consistent and targeted manner, and the strengthening of the capacity of law enforcement authorities. It should be stressed that border controls and the restriction of illegal migration are an important issue of national security over the last six months. It should be noted that the next year's budget for strengthening internal security, including the eastern borders, has the second largest budget. For wise people in Latvia. Although school alone does not guarantee the wisdom of life, it provides knowledge and opportunities for everyone to become a full member of society. That is why I am going to go on the subject of education and on the very current reform of the teacher wage model. During these months, the Prime Minister, together with the Ministers of Education and Science, is working on the reform of teachers' salaries, which is being seen in the context of the future of the school network. We want and can afford a high-quality education system in Latvia - an education system where every student, regardless of whether he is studying in Riga or in the region, can start with his education at the world of excellence in the Olympics. That is why we cannot afford schools with 12 students or classes with 3 children. We must guarantee that children can receive primary school education as close as possible to their homes, thus not disrupting the role of school as a local cultural centre, but secondary schools must be where quality education can be guaranteed. In total, in 10 sittings with each of the municipalities we will talk about the specifics of the specific site. Each municipality has its own voice. The Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union takes part in the meetings with its voice. The new model of teachers' salaries is designed to ensure that public funding for education is used more efficiently, more transparently and fairerly. This is a prerequisite for raising teachers' salaries and attracting school-competitive teachers by 1 September next year. The government has already adopted a new financing model for higher education. This has been done to apply the higher education offer to the needs of the Latvian economy and the labour market. Next - about healthy people in Latvia. Another reform that I want to submit today is in the area of health - and it is the introduction of compulsory health insurance. There have been several attempts. We, the Ministry of Finance and the Unity, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Welfare, are preparing a model that must definitely be offered next year, to the budget for the following year, so that, as from 2017, we can implement this system and we do not need to "worse holes", as is the case now, when the government in October will provide additional funding to the health sector to cover those things that have not been covered when planning the budget. Honourable Members! To reduce inequalities. The government proposal in the state budget is to increase the minimum wage to 370 euros, introduce a differentiated non-taxable minimum, increase the non-taxable minimum to 85 euros, introduce a social tax, which states that recipients of high wages also pay the same percentage tax burden. The draft state budget also plans to index pensions with a positive trend in the long term. It should also be noted that the restrictions on sickness, maternity, paternity and parental benefits introduced in 2009 during the crisis have been lifted as a result of a positive demographic trend since January of this year. But here's one comment: I hope that specialists will assess why people are "diseased" during the popular festival Positivus, and will draw appropriate conclusions in the relevant institutions. From this year onwards, the amount of the family state allowance depends on the number of children in the family: for the second child, double, third and subsequent, triple. The report presented by the Saeima shows that the economic tensions in the families of Latvia have been reduced due to lower poverty rates and the proportion of families at risk of poverty with three or more children has also decreased. Honourable Members! In my opinion, economic growth is the most important prerequisite for people's quality of life. Thanks to the capacity to clean up public finances and to make a satisfactory and forward-looking use of international loan programmes, European Union structural funds and other foreign financial assistance programmes, the country's economy has returned to sustainable growth over the last few years. The Latvian economy is still among the fastest growing in the European Union. In 2014 GDP increased by 2.4 percent, while in the first half of 2015 it increased by 2.3 percent. The slowdown in growth was determined mainly by external factors - the tense geopolitical situation in the region, the slow recovery of economic growth in the euro area - but also by the prudent lending policy of Latvian commercial banks. Since the food embargo established by Russia in 2014 has had the greatest impact on the dairy sector, the government has repeatedly decided to provide state aid in order to reduce the losses incurred by the sector, strengthen its competitiveness and support the conquerion of new markets. The fight against the shadow economy. It remains an essential direction for government action. The fight against the shadow economy is a common task not only for the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service, but also for other institutions and social and cooperation partners of the government, so that Latvia can reach at least the European Union average size of the shadow economy by reducing the shadow economy by an average of one percentage point per year by 2020. Undoubtedly, one of the most important financial sources not only for the Latvian economy is European Union funds. During my government, we became one of the first Member States of the European Union whose operational programme was supported by the European Commission, thus allowing us to start investing in the new programming period for European Union funds in a timely manner, while minimising the disruption of investment in the economy. Although the acquisition of these investments has already begun, I would still urge the ministers to speed up the investment of European Union funds, thus providing the necessary impetus for a further economic upturn. In the context of the regions, it should be noted that a new system of financial equalisation between municipalities has been developed and adopted by the government and the Saeima. It will contribute to a regionally balanced and balanced reallocation of funding between municipalities and provide them with sufficient financial resources to carry out their functions. I know that there are municipalities that are not satisfied, but no system works in such a way that both the donors and the beneficiaries are satisfied. In turn, in order to make public administration services more accessible to people in rural and urban areas, the creation of single customer service centres of the state and local government has started. I am aware of the need to improve the efficiency of public administration, and I am putting great hope on the new Director of the State Chancellery, Mārtiņa Krieviņa, who has begun a promising and active work to strengthen public administration in the first weeks. Honourable Members! There is a strong emphasis on the energy sector in the economy. With the opening of the electricity market for households from 1 January 2015, the liberalisation of the electricity market has been fully completed, while introducing social support instruments for certain groups of citizens. The government has developed and adopted solutions that will allow maintaining the fixed amount of payment of the mandatory procurement component in 2016 and in the coming years and will mitigate the impact of the mandatory procurement component on economic competitiveness and citizens' well-being. It is important to note that the government has decided on a support mechanism for Latvian energy intensive manufacturing companies, with the right to a reduced participation in the payment of the mandatory procurement component, which thus allows to increase the competitiveness of these companies. As a result of the gradual liberalisation of the natural gas market with a view to its completion in 2017, the government has adopted a series of decisions ensuring consistent progress towards reform. Free competition in the natural gas market as well as alternative supply routes and sources will strengthen Latvia's energy independence and security of supply. And I call on the Saeima to adopt the amendments to the Energy Law tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers by the end of this year in order to ensure the process of liberalisation of the gas market by April 2017 and to give the parties sufficient time to take the necessary actions. The Minister of Economics has promised to work actively with the parliamentary commissions with his team to address any concerns and provide all necessary support. During the last decade the transport sector has made the most significant investments in railway infrastructure, a new track has been built in Skrīveri-Krustpils section, thus increasing the transmission capacity of the Eastern-West Corridor of Latvia. The first works have been successfully carried out for the entire Baltic region in an important Rail Baltica project. Continuing the dialogue with citizens, municipalities, as well as Estonia and Lithuania, I am convinced that in a number of years we will come to the implementation of this huge work in life that will help both business and citizens. Next, about a favourable business environment in the country. This is also characterised by the effective functioning of the judicial system. During the Government's activities, several important steps have been taken to strengthen the justice system in general and to regularise certain directions affecting economic development. Work on judicial reform continues. The reform provides for a gradual transition to the “pure instance” courts, which will result in a levelling-off of court loads and shorten the time limits for hearing cases. Judicial specialisation has been introduced to improve the quality of case handling. However, despite the work carried out, entrepreneurs continue to refer to the unsubstantiated judicial system as one of the main problems for a favourable business environment. The Minister of Justice therefore still has a large workplace ahead of him. As regards a favourable business environment, an electronic auction model (e-Auctions) has been introduced in insolvency proceedings, giving up the organisation of real estate auctions on the spot. It is an effective means of combating unfair auction participants. Reforms have also been carried out in the field of commercial law, adopting anti-Reditarian regulation in the Commercial Law, ensuring the protection of creditors in the process of disposal of real estate necessary for public needs. However, I always call on you to remember that laws and systems can be constantly improved, but only the integrity of every human being will determine whether the rule of law will be strengthened and the shadow economy will decrease. Dear Members, I have been talking about the work done for some time, but I do not want to avoid what still needs to be done and where our efforts can be better targeted. For example, spending on R & D remains too low from gross domestic product. This is crucial for strengthening research capacity and excellence. Low are indicators of study activity in vocational education. While the risk of poverty is decreasing for families with children in general, it is a growing trend in families where children are brought up by one adult. The population generation also has critically high mortality rates from external causes of death. This highlights the need for policy initiatives to promote healthy lifestyles and reduce life-threatening risks. As I said, entrepreneurs are still talking and waiting for a more effective judicial system. Yesterday the government has presented you with the national budget for next year, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government will start to work hard on medium-term fiscal policy from the beginning of next year. We will also continue our work on improving the business environment, territorial reform, strengthening research capacity and excellence, innovation, strengthening the quality of vocational and higher education, reducing income inequalities and at risk of poverty. Dear Saeima! Without today's dreams, there is no reality tomorrow. Thinking of the centenary of Latvia, my dream is strong, based on the values of European democracy, Latvia, where healthy, happy and intelligent people live. It is important to be aware that the fulfillment of such a dream begins with everyone. Only self - determination and honest attitude can change the situation. Every patriot of Latvia living in the country and the world is the determination and integrity that is necessary for Latvia's future. It's today! Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U3	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U4	Honourable Members or, as the Prime Minister says in the document sent to us, honourable readers! Today we are looking at the information report presented by the Prime Minister at the Saeima. As mentioned both in the accompanying letter and at the start of the monitoring report, this document has been prepared by the Trans-European Coordination Centre. The National Development Plan was developed in order to set clear goals to be achieved by Latvia, therefore in this report the President of the Republic wanted to see the assessment of whether it has been possible to keep up with the set course; which has already been achieved, which has not been achieved, and what has to be done otherwise. I wanted to feel the responsibility of Mrs Straujuma for the country, if you want to, the love of the country that she has the responsibility and the call to take care of. Instead, another document has been created, which seems to have been prepared not even by the officials, but by invited consultants or observers who, without any personal interest in the progress and results, present the theory: if you want to, you can do so, but if you do not want to, you can do so! Just a few examples. Taking into account that a draft budget for 2016 and proposals on tax changes have been submitted to the Saeima, statements about stable and predictable tax policy are particularly cynical. The report contains an academicly correct statement: a stable regulatory framework, a transparent business environment and a predictable tax policy are prerequisites for investment decisions. I have a question: what is preventing these correct claims from being put into practice? Instead of a fair analysis of the causes, an excellent official answer is given. We do not seem to have a medium-term national tax policy. Do we really have to "create" more dozens and more plans in our country and then an additional plan to improve planning, as this document also provides for this, so that only the process and the simulation of action can be achieved? It may be that it is in planning that public administration could demonstrate in practice the "smart contraction" approach proposed by municipalities in this monitoring report and start cooperation at last and understand the common objectives of the executive. Unfortunately, it is necessary to agree with what the Foreign Investors' Council said in a study on investment climate in Latvia: nothing is interrelated, everything is done in separate pieces! There are many examples of a lack of common vision and understanding of executive responsibility in this report. But for your attention one outstanding example of income inequality. I quote: "The future developments are not clearly predictable and depend to a large extent on changes in national tax policies, the guidelines of which are currently in the process of taking active action under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, on the ability of the economy to create new businesses and on targeted social assistance." Two of these factors are precisely executive responsibility: tax policy and social policy. So how can the executive not be able to predict the development of events at the moment? Indeed, the Prime Minister, in your opinion, the Ministry of Finance can create a tax policy that might not be in line with the objectives set out in your declaration, or simply the Centre for the Coordination of Transparers is not convinced of its colleagues? Finally, the opinion expressed in the monitoring report on the effectiveness of public administration. It turns out that already in 2013 we exceeded the target set for the National Development Plan 2014-2020. The only question is: why is it not felt by a company that receives this efficient public administration service or by foreign investors who estimate that the pace of reforms launched in 2009-2011 has stopped? Reforms carried out formally without ensuring their real impact and implementation create new red tape rather than making it easier for the business environment. As the letter accompanying the letter has already been acknowledged in good faith, the Prime Minister has submitted an information report drawn up by the Centre for the Coordination of the Reconnaissances with the introductory words written by the Prime Minister to readers, rather than an annual report by the Prime Minister, as determined by the parliamentary roll of order. And it must be concluded that the Prime Minister has failed to comply with the law. There is an attachment, but there is no annual report! The document submitted to the Saeima is, in essence, a classic withdrawal, which shows a clear indifference to what is happening to the development of the country, not to mention that it is not visible here whether the state leader knows and wants to do something to change the situation. I hope that the Prime Minister is aware that a chic has been created, and I call on him not to present this document as a package of happiness, but to acknowledge his error or forgetfulness and to draw up his annual report, the leader of the State, the Prime Minister. Thank you. ( Ambitious by members of the NSL Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U5	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U6	Madam President of the Saeima. Madam President, Members! Indeed, this is a very valuable material in which we see a very large number of indicators that could certainly be useful for further policy planning, and certainly would also be required... I hope that there is also an even more extensive analysis of how these indicators affect each other, how they can be used in budget planning and so on. And I also hope that these indicators have been taken into account in the budget explanatory memorandum, where we justify future taxes... proposals. Now on some examples and indicators. The issue of inequality is characterized by the index S80 versus S20, which... Because it's bigger... So it describes the proportion between that part which is the richest part and that which is the poorest part. The higher the index, the greater the inequality. And this report contains two tables - in the beginning and end, and in the end, where the performance of the indices is described, only the data for 2013 is taken into account, while the data for 2014 is already in the beginning. And then in the final part of 2013, where the data are available, the result is 6,3 and the index... So the trend shows that we could move towards the objective of the NAP for 2014 - the result 6. On the other hand, looking at the data for 2014, the result is 6.5, which means that in 2014 the trend has changed its direction, moved in the opposite direction, and in fact we have reached the 2013 level of Bulgaria, which is the most unequal country in the European Union. I hope that we will think about this when we talk about a series of measures in the budget for next year, which could perhaps reduce this inequality, and I hope that we can also calculate it. Next is... It is possible that there are interrelated indicators, which are part of manufacturing industry and which are constantly falling, and it is very difficult to imagine how we will enter the trend of the upward National Development Plan. And, in my opinion, this is linked to another indicator, namely spending on research and development, which is completely below the National Development Plan, so this trend has been negative at the moment. And again it has nothing... This is quite justified because, of course, the policy has been more focused on support, not on industry, but on real estate. And, of course, these policies are interrelated and internally competitive. And finally, some things about the cultural field, which were also very interesting to analyse. Here we see a positive trend, for example in the film industry. And the medium-term budget for the future budget allocation also shows that this positive trend could continue. On the other hand, the average figures are in the field of original literature expenditure, where we live on the spot. And I hope Members will think about this next time that there will be another proposal not to participate in the London Book Market. But a very interesting indicator is cultural events... the number of cultural events attended. And that is, in my opinion, the only indicator where we have already exceeded not only the NAP forecast but even the 20-30 targets. I understand that this indicator is probably also analysed by the Ministry of Finance, and it is thought that it is already crazy and that it cannot - go so far. And so next year's budget includes a mechanism that will certainly drive this indicator down... i.e. VAT for cultural events. This is likely to fall in the coming years. But I hope that with the budget, however, we will try not only to reduce this, but also to increase the indicators that I mentioned earlier... either, to improve them accordingly, because, let us say, the rate of inequality must be reduced. Thank you for your attention. ( A fluctuating from the VL-TB/LNNK fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U7	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U8	Dear President of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister, Ministers! Honourable Members! This is the first time that the annual report of the Prime Minister according to the legislation also includes a report on Latvia’s sustainable development strategy “Latvia 2030” and implementation of the National Development Plan. And I would like to say, Mrs Silver, that it is certainly not as terrible as you have shown. That is first. Secondly, as the head of the Commission, as the head of the Commission for Sustainable Development, I can assure you that it was developed by a really Reconservatorial Coordination Centre and that no non-researcher's firms were involved. Of course, about the procedure. Since this is the first time, I think that we will also be able to draw conclusions on how to discuss such reports, how to follow Latvia's goals. And perhaps it is necessary to bring back what was taken away during the crisis - the original idea that more society should be involved. There must be a forum where non-governmental organisations are involved, where criticism and follow-up are taking place. At the same time, we are familiar with the report in the Commission. And, of course, we can also criticise the fact that very much could also be a general text, where bad things are at the bottom, so that more appears in the right... better. But that is obviously natural. Second conclusion - on indicators. Thank you already to Mr Cilinski for some who are not going on, and for this analysis. It must be acknowledged that we have been extremely modest at that time, because most of these indicators are being exceeded, and it seems even better than planned. But I think that the best news is that we have indicators and trends that we have to follow, because in 2005, when we started to draw up the first National Development Plan in general, it was the view that all will be determined by the market economy, but that nothing can be determined. For good things. The good things I think are that current trends show that we have not deviated from those directions mentioned in the National Development Plan and the Latvian Sustainable Development Strategy. The fact that you are not doing that well is a different conclusion. But there have not been calls for how it would be possible for Latvia to go so wrong that the plan should be redesigned at the moment and other priorities should be set in it. Of course, there are extremely important things ahead. First. The report shows - and also the way forward - that the European Structural Funds are now more or less programmed in line with the priorities of the development strategy. The question is how we will implement it. Next is structural reforms. At the moment I would also ask for them to be carried out, and I would also like to see them in the government's action plans more... in specific cases, such as education, which has already been mentioned. The main conclusion that we made in the Commission and agreed with the Coordination Centre for the Peresors is that this report should not be just a photograph that will disappear for two years. This report must be alive, and every month both the Trans-European Coordination Centre and, I think, the Saeima committees must follow this up and talk about these things. For it is so easy for us to go to television and say, Dear people, we will do what you want. - but it is so hard to go and say that we need structural reforms that will be painful but that will ensure the development of Latvia in the long term. I therefore call for more attention to be paid to the analysis of how we could involve both Members and non-governmental organisations more closely, thinking about these objectives and meeting them, criticising and creating new proposals again. But let's go constructively ahead! Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U9	Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U10	Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I want to touch on one aspect. It is being said that the priority today is security and defence. I did not see in that report that it would be distributed as a priority, nor in the report here that it is a priority. Because, on the one hand, if you're talking about security, you could build on it... In principle, all security has - economic, social, political... Either, one section is a military or a defence area. It notes the measures taken in the field of defence, in the field of security. I would like to note the following here. Let us observe the logic! I have said that many times. The National Security Law states that the Saeima should have considered and adopted the concept of National Security by 1 October this year, i.e. until today. I have not seen it, but I have heard that it has been discussed in the Cabinet and will be presented to the Saeima. Well, it's gonna take some days... month... Later or earlier - it is not already so important in conceptual or principle terms. On its basis, we develop and examine... not in the Saeima, but in the country as a whole we develop and consider a military strategy, as called Western countries, NATO countries, or as Latvia - the concept of state defence. Yeah, I've heard about it. I took part, as has been said, in the final discussion on the concept of national defence. I did not see the very concept, but we discussed it. It reminded me of the way the Soviets spoke about Solženicin’s works: “I have not read it, but I condemn it!” That is what I am saying for the sake of an example. But there is no criticism about it, because the discussion was about conceptual things, it was useful, and I think it was a place. But Article 11 of the National Security Act states that the Ministry of Defence has three competences. The first competence is to develop and implement national defence policy. The second is the budget. And the third is staff. I do not see that in this document it would be very precise and clear to say what national defence policy is. When I was the Chief of Staff, there were times when we stopped with the total defence, there were times (until 2004) when we stopped with the territorial protection when NATO joined... and I have also mentioned this example in our Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, I asked this question, and I raised the fact that we... The U.S. Ambassador was also present at the Commission meeting... I said, "Well how do these funds divide between self-defence and collective protection?" She says: “If you are a NATO country, your self-defence is its collective defence.” It is based on the principles of smart, intelligent protection, but it needs to be made clear. Then there is a lot of consistency, including the place of the landguards in the national defence system. Lithuanian General Kronkaitis, who has studied in the West, said: “The collective defence force can carry out territorial protection. Territorial protection forces, which are the Landguard, cannot provide collective protection.’ And the point. And I agree with him. If we do not agree with this, then these issues should also be discussed, but I hope that in general we will also be able to resolve these issues, which is a priority, because the budget really provides for 1.4 per cent of GDP. That means 260... 365 million goes out for protection, and then the protection system will be arranged. Thank you for the report.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U11	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U12	Dear President of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister, Well-ordered education is the basis for the normal development of the country. On this report, I would like to say that it is an excellent example of a simulation of the work of the government to create an illusion of action and an illusion of reality. The report gives an excellent description of the statistical data used to describe the situation in education, but there is a lack of reliable mathematical analysis to support conclusions, even though, for example, the correlation between the various indicators in the scientific and economic indicators. The report has a wide range of performance indicators and varies, but does not say anything about the quality of education in general. For example, over several years huge sums of money - EUR 3.5 million - have been invested in bringing together or eliminating vocational education institutions, setting up centres of competence for vocational education, setting up conferences and sectoral expert councils. At the same time, we see that the assessment of the proportion of learners in general secondary and vocational education programmes after primary education has been zero or weak, which means that progress towards the strategic objective is lagging significantly behind. Only the repair of premises and their installation do not increase the quality of education. In turn, in order to be able to account to the public for the next time that the target has been reached, the liquidation of secondary schools is taking place. apologies, network management and optimisation, resource rationalisation. Another indicator for the quality of education has been the level of youth reading skills, which has also been estimated at zero. I do not really understand why target values for the highest and lowest levels of competence for 2014 were set below the actual values for 2012. There is a valid question: What happens in the education system if progress is significantly reduced without a change in standard. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) It has not become clear to me from this vast document which “magazine” government has planned to use for 2017 - and that is only after less than two years! - 5 per cent of students in the ninth grade would have read at the highest level of competence if there were only 2.9 per cent last year. The indicator “Number of students with degrees or qualifications in universities and colleges” does not indicate an increase in the quality of education, because evaluation is minus one. This means that the trends observed are diametrically opposite those desired: out of the planned 23.9 thousand qualification winners in 2014, only 17.3 thousand have done so. As usual, the justification is found: the report explains the decrease by negative demographic trends. I would not like to believe that document developers would not have taken demographic trends into account when planning qualitative indicators, or even have forgotten that there is both the Central Statistical Office and the Ministry of Welfare. In my opinion, it would be more reliable to assume that the economic system in the country and the structure of the economy do not stimulate people to get higher education. The total number of students in the country provides a workforce with sufficiently high qualifications for the implementation of research results and for the development of innovative enterprises, but this is insufficient to ensure the development and deployment of new technologies. Under the leadership of the Prime Minister, the Latvian Strategic Council on Research and Innovation was established and successfully established in 2014 in order to ensure coordinated interresor cooperation for successful implementation, implementation and monitoring of research technology development and innovation policy. For me, however, it is not clear where the statement that the Council is working well when the assessment of turnover of innovative products is zero, but the indicator of expenditure on research and development is minus one. Only 0.6 per cent of gross domestic product has been allocated to science, and since 2011 there has been a steady trend to reduce funding, although the Law on Scientific Activities states that the Cabinet of Ministers, when submitting the annual law on the state budget to the Saeima, provides for an annual increase in funding for scientific activities, not less than 0,15 per cent of gross domestic product, until the funding granted by the State for scientific activities reaches at least 1 per cent of gross domestic product. The report also finds the blame: the weak progress of recent years in the development of research has been explained by the low share of private sector investment. A valid question arises: Why do entrepreneurs not want to invest in research? The National Development Plan and the Government Declaration...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U13	Mr Platoper, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U14	Yeah. ( From the drug depot. Mr Bondars and other Members: "Let me speak!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U15	How much time do you still need to complete? ( From the hall: “Let it speak! Two minutes!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U16	I think that the government itself should read this report from the sideline once again, carefully, so that it can learn from it and finally concentrate on essential works that really bring real and visible improvements, rather than spending resources on simulations that, as can be seen from the report, do not deliver the planned result. Thank you. ( The philosophies of the NSL fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U17	Thank you. It took less than two minutes. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U18	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, Mrs Straujuma, for the beautiful speech, but unfortunately, I did not hear the content in this speech - especially as regards the security aspects. One of the basic laws in the world we live in is the law of causes and consequences: if there are no causes, no consequences will occur. In 2011, on Valmiera television, I... As soon as the hostilities in Syria started, too... When hostilities began also in connection with the Gaddafi regime, I referred to it as a possible option... I mentioned that the then Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis had reached an agreement on the possibility of receiving up to 40 thousand refugees on the territory of Latvia, as well as justified the dangers that might arise – that it is another mentality, representatives of other mentalities, that they are representatives of other faiths, people with a different perception of life, as well as there are risks related to terrorism and organised crime. At the time, the only thing my colleagues in Unity allowed me to say is that they are expressions of racism, but no one has even tried to challenge either these numbers or that there is such a possibility. Why do I say all this? We have had enough time to analyse the situation and its possible further development. What's happened? Oh, nothing! We live today... If to the transition of military terminology, we live fast, the day has passed, and thank God! What is our tactic? What is our strategy? Oh, no! I am smiling at all the debates that have taken place on how many refugees we will accept: 10, 50, 100? No one knows that, Mrs. Straujuma, because... When we met you at the sub-committee meeting of the Baltic Assembly, we also talked about what Latvia could do... that it would be for Latvia to suggest that, in order to avoid the flow of refugees, there should be a land operation, an agreement with the European Union, with NATO, in order to destroy these terrorists here. If we want refugees to stay away from there, we must achieve, including as a state, that there is a return of statehood. Question: 'What are you doing at those summits - NATO, the European Union at all sittings? Why is this discussion not taking place there? There is a debate about things that make me smile again when I hear that, you know, the warships will finally sink those smuggling ships. Then read international maritime law, where black to white is told what obligations a warship is when it meets a pirate vessel or a ship engaged in human trafficking! Nothing new has to be thought out! Talking about what the government has done and plans. I'm sorry, I didn't hear anything about it again! The legislative initiatives that have come from the government, in my opinion, have made the situation worse in terms of security, instead of thinking what we will do, how we will develop, how we will not allow the threat of terrorism to increase in Latvia's territory. We're not doing anything! When we also talked about cyber security at this sub-committee meeting, you said: it is a good idea! But the fact that the Baltic Assembly has made a decision... a resolution on the establishment of a Cybercrime Investigation and Prevention Centre in Riga, it was a news for you. It turns out you don't know. It's about what's going on in education. It's beautiful. Finally, admit that it was, to put it mildly, a great mistake to eliminate the Latvian Police Academy... That we don't have specialists. But you offer police officers to cook, including by specialties, at the Rēzekne Border Guard Training Centre... in the center of the landfill. In what way I don't understand! There's no point in having a lot of discussions... Talking about strategy. In my opinion, then, we can write in red that our only strategy is to listen to and enforce the European Union, NATO directives, and it is the amen church. We do not need anything more - let us wait for the directive! No initiatives and no independent thinking!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U19	Mr. Adamson! Oh, thank you, you're done. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.) Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U20	Good afternoon, everybody! As I see from the debate, those who have become familiar with this report, even colleagues in the coalition, are delicately recognising what the facts and figures contained in this report show unfailingly - the fact that sustainable development in our country has never been implemented and will never be implemented - unfortunately, this is a reality! - and that, in fact, what has been implemented so far has not been a success story. Yes, it has perhaps been a success story for an accountant, but it has actually been implemented at the level of shallow, superficial awareness, limited to fiscal levels, ignoring deeper economic and macroeconomic causality and principles. And how has all this happened? So in order to achieve these beautiful fiscal targets, it is precisely the factors that are needed for sustainable development - investment in education, science, health, infrastructure - that makes us more productive and competitive in the long term. Yes, in the short term, it can achieve good results, but to what does this lead? Our success story has been designed so that we will not become more productive, but cheaper, that is, to use our opportunities more effectively, to reduce our costs. You see the result yourself: what we are leading is poverty, because in order for us to be more competitive in some area, we need to make it cheaper. So people have to pay less money, and taxes also have to pay less. And so this success story is the main cause of this poverty, inequality in society and an unpredictable tax policy, because the government must always try to figure out how to cover a new hole that could not be covered by this economy with its low productivity. Someone may argue, saying: “What about it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, we have macroeconomic indicators that show the opposite!” I will try to clarify this because these reservations are in principle... If someone tries to object, then he shows it by simply his shallow understanding, which is on the same level as those who tried to implement this “failure story”. What does this compare with? To illustrate: Well - being is comparable to that of a mountain, and climbers who are national economies are trying to climb higher and higher. But what did one climber do? He simply figured out a “excellent” way in which he could run up in the mountain faster: he throws down the entire hanger, throws down all his belongings and lashes up the mountain. And he says to all: “Look! We have the best indicators! Learn from us how fast we learn to climb up the mountain.” Yes, for a moment in this way you can climb up a mountain, but what will happen to such a mountain? He's just gonna get frozen or die of hunger. And that is what we are currently seeing! If we look at our situation, we see that this race is gradually ending: exports are falling, non-financial investments - these are investments that go into production rather than financial speculation - are falling, we have no money for development; we have a labour problem just getting bigger, before the demographic disaster. This is clearly the result that we have achieved on the mountain. Now, suddenly, it has finally become clear that it is essential, however, to increase productivity. And this is what the report says: “It is essential to promote the productivity of Latvian companies and increase it through investment, investment in research and development, in other words, innovation, in accordance with the smart strategy.” Very interesting! It is very good that you are here, Prime Minister! I chair the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commission. In the sub-commission we together with the Latvian Academy of Sciences, together with the Latvian Institute of Organic Synthesis, the University of Latvia Institute of Solid Physics... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) I accept that you know what these are about institutions: our most bright leading minds and the brightest innovators. We're together... The first time... has been trying to get this smart strategy for years. Where do we have it? The Ministry of Education and Science has still not been able to put it in front of us and show: “Behold, this is the smart strategy under which we will develop!” And you are still talking about sustainable development! I am delighted at least by the fact that this understanding is gradually appearing that, not beautiful fiscal figures, but people - capable, intelligent and creative - will be able to create this wealth, this well-being for society. They need this necessary... without knowledge, they need these opportunities to apply this knowledge in practice. This requires both technology and infrastructure. That's all we don't have money for. If we are talking about this important factor in research and development - these investments - then you yourself know what the amount of funding we have is. I'll probably take those two minutes at once...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U21	Do Members have no reservations that Mr Zarins is using the opportunity to speak for two more minutes? ( From the hall: “Let it speak! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U22	Thank you. Yeah. The reality is harsh. If you look at those countries that have achieved their prosperity, you will see that they really have gone this way, because this is the only way to be able to build here a smart, skilled, high-quality workforce that creates this wealth. They have done so with a targeted investment of at least 3 per cent of GDP over the years. You know what we have! We have 0.5, 0.6... is also drawn behind the ears, but we are dreaming that in 2020 it will be 1.5 percent. It is simply unrealistic to talk to such figures about the fact that we have sustainable development in the plan! It's simply unrealistic! Such a plan, such a view just leads to our country... our people to destruction, and this is actually demonstrated by demographic facts and by all these trends that are now being seen. You mentioned energy as one of the important areas. Do you know that we do not have a strategy in energy too? So how do we think about making something here? Next, you mentioned the liberalisation of the gas market. You know, looking at what's going on, I can tell you that it's going to be the next brother we're gonna have to save here in the Saeima. Why am I saying that? Because the Ministry of Economics has still not done what it has to do in the current legislation: there are no rules for the use of gas, because the old ones have finished, but no new ones are working. It is beautifully discussed that Latvenergo will immediately replace the trader, but the Ministry of Economics has not developed the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers under which this trader can be replaced. Then, excuse me! Either someone here is trying specifically to make a diversification so that this liberalisation of the market does not happen at all, or simply does not understand what he is doing. As a result, all this reminds me of the Soviet times when they used to write such short, succinct words in Russian on the walls of the house or on the fibers of the house... ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) If you approach and read them, then it doesn't mean that what's written there... it doesn't mean that you will find it in that shed, which is written there. The same can be said about this report on the sustainable development strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U23	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U24	Good morning, honourable Members! Thank you to the opposition Members for starting to talk about the blocks. It was also very interesting to hear constructive criticisms about education, about safety. I was also looking forward to having a discussion on specific things that people understand. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. or for something else, but specifically. I was looking forward to something on pensions, on social policy, on the barrack in health care from today's report, but I did not expect anything. I had a book by Rainis, where Laimdota is, where Spīdola, Lāčplējs... And there's Cangar. ( Shows a book.) And when I listened to this report, I realized that this report is closer to the cangars that we need to look for in the Latvian nation, because if there were no problems that really affect people today, when people are waiting for some of the steps that you promised in the declaration both on indexation and on the inequitable minimum... Karlis Šadurskis promised back six months that he would raise his pension by EUR 10 per pensioner and that they would pay lower taxes. Everyone expected e-health to be activated from January 1st, and we can see who the doctors cheated, who cooperate with the pharmaceutical companies and receive the ‘otcats’ from them, but we didn't hear anything there... We heard that we were all right and that it would be even better. But real people today, I think, go away from the radio and don't listen to it anymore, because you understand that nothing better will be expected in the next stage of development. No words were said about indexation if we were honest. No word has been said that we will destroy it in bad practice with a negative index. Nothing! It was just that there was a lot of talk about something... a cosmic that the ordinary person does not understand. I'd like to give you Rainy, but I don't think I will. I'd rather send this book to a rural library or give it to a social home because only we... Some position can be expected from the opposition's proposals because you are not doing anything for the people. Thank you for continuing to work! It's only very sorry that you don't understand that your time is over. ( A FRAUD’S ANSWER.) From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “It was like a asphalt roll.) Chairs of the sitting. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U25	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, Madam Prime Minister, too. It's very short. In this information report, the word "region" is mentioned 232 times, including, of course, the Riga region, the Pierīga region, the capital region, the world regions - the Baltic Sea region, the Nordic region, the Mediterranean region. ( From the drug depot. S.Woods and K.Shadursky's replicas.) Or I have to understand that this information report also mentions a wish that the approach of the'smart contraction' will have to be implemented, so in these regions that I have just mentioned, or else... Is that so? In other words, I would ask both the Head of Government, the Ministers and probably all of us in the Saeima to make it clear once what is then the region and what is the region in the context of this information report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U26	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U27	Madam President, Prime Minister! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! I will not put my finger behind Latvia's sustainable development strategy until 2030, nor the National Development Plan 2014-2020, nor the Government declaration, because it is not worth doing, because I have to say: Prime Minister, your Cabinet of Ministers has no vision of the future! And because there is no vision of the future, there is no action based on the vision of the future, and there is no result, but today your words only reflect the characterisation of the current situation. And to describe... ( The drug is getting more noise. (See the box below.) to show that you do not have a vision of the future, I would like to prove it with some examples. I do have to cit you in the beginning. You said today that tomorrow is visible in today's work. But on 8 July, when you stood here and planted the new defence minister before you, instead of telling you what the new defence minister will have to do in the future, what tasks should be done and what the vision of the defence sector is, you just read his CV. And for that, the explanation is very simple. One reason why you read his CV might be that the defence sector is the area of responsibility of the Greens/Farmers' Union and that you, the Unity, are not interfering in this area at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediates.) Second. Of course, you may not have said anything about Mr Bergmanis's vision, action and ability because this vision, action and ability is not: it is simply a delegated minister from the Union of Greens/farmers. ( The drug is getting more noise. (See the box below.) I do not know what these were for, but, as we see, at the sitting on 8 July, you spoke only about what Mr Bergmanis has done in the past and not about what he should do in the future. Secondly. Of course, I would like to quote you again, Mrs Straujuma, because you said the golden words today: “Without today’s dreams there is no reality tomorrow.” Right? If there are no scientists in Latvia today, there will be no strong universities tomorrow. If there are no strong universities tomorrow, then there will be no opportunity to train qualified teachers. If there is no opportunity to train capable teachers, what pupils will come out of those schools? Therefore, all the intentions that are described in all these documents - the Latvian Sustainable Development Strategy by 2030, the National Development Plan for 2014-2020 and the Government Declaration - are just brutal to the place that I will not mention. Finally, the third. Mrs Straujumas, I would really not be proud of the Presidency of the European Union and its results in your place (from the medicines' intermediates: "Uūu!" Depp. J.Urbanovich: “Right!” ) and Latvian performance in this section. Because during the Presidency of the European Union, as we all know, they were given... Let's say, seeds are sown (From the drug depot. S. Aboltiņa: “Sows not planted!” ), which have been the result of this huge refugee crisis that we are seeing today. And then I have to say this: either Latvia has had no vision, has not had the ability to predict and has not been able to influence these events, or Latvia's influence in the European Union has been nothing during the Presidency. ( From the drug depot. I. Viņķelis: “Lie!” ) That’s why I wouldn’t be proud of this here in your place. And finally, Mrs Straujuma, if you want to be proud of your time of premiere, your time of rule, then do the following: change your thinking. Because thinking determines the action, but action determines the result. If you change your thinking, the result will also be a different one. Good luck, thanks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U28	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U29	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister, Colleagues! I would like to name a few digits to my colleagues of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, which reflect the draft budget set up by the government (From the room depot. I.Zariņš: ‘With or without quotas?’ ), which has just been submitted to the Saeima and is geared towards rural development in the next three years and beyond. And about what we have also heard from Mr Adamson, that there is no clarity about what is happening in the field of defence and in what way, I would now like to say that 99 million are already planned for protection next year, and specifically for the border. The same is true for the home system, where wages will be increased for rescuers, firemen and police officers, with a total of 35 million. And in other priorities that are education and health, it is planned to invest several tens of million in each, which means that not only in educational institutions or hospitals in Riga or Perry will this be, but also in rural and regional areas. And what we heard... It is really pleasant to see at this point that the Prime Minister himself has also engaged in negotiations with all the local governments of Latvia on the education system, on the support and maintenance of certain small schools where this is necessary, and, of course, on the optimisation of secondary schools, where there is a normal number of pupils, so that we do not use these education resources effectively. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U30	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U31	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister, I am very glad that the Saeima took the decision to set up a Superrest Coordination Centre, which is an excellent analytical unit working for the Prime Minister, helps the Prime Minister analyse the economy, helps the Prime Minister analyse the development of Latvian society and write a thorough overview of where we are and where we are going. I therefore think that the accusations about the fact that the author of this report is the coordinator of the Perresors are really silly, because, Mrs Silver, do you really think that Mrs Straujuma was able to sit and write this report during her non-existent evening hours? What do you really want, what is your vision of the authorship of this report? Secondly, from the report as a whole, and also from the report by the Prime Minister, I would really like to highlight one important key point that put the name of Latvia on the European Union's agenda, which enabled Latvia, a new European Union country, to engage with the whole European Union. And that is our Presidency! ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “What was it that gave you?” ) Madam Prime Minister, I am very grateful to you and to your team very grateful for your selfless work during the Presidency. Dear colleagues, to fall under the Latvian Presidency means to commemorate all our ministers who, for six months, have worked to guide the whole of the European Union, not counting on their family needs, without paying attention to their private time needs. ( FROM a political group, “Ooo! ” ) I can just wonder, colleagues, what kind of barrel you live in if you believe that the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union has not made any sense. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “What contribution to Latvia?” ) Those colleagues, who are talking about the Latvian Presidency, commemorate all officials in all ministries who worked selflessly and diligently to move the European Union forward on essential files, and also put new key issues on the European Union agenda. Would it be a question of the European Union's Energy Union... Mr. Zarins, you know that the Energy Union was in Riga and that it was called the Riga Process! If you want to know more about it, come to me, I'll tell you. Dear colleagues, It was the Latvian Presidency that launched a review of the European Union Audiovisual Directive, which would ensure that we could protect our information space from various propaganda attacks. The work that has been done is very much and has been done under the leadership of the Laimdota Straujuma Government. Dear colleagues, Throughout Europe, Latvia's Presidency says that we had a Presidency with a German face, with German precision, but human roles and a human face. And this was done by the government of Laimdota Straujuma. Well, stop talking and be proud of something in our country once! Thank you. ( Medications. A Fraction Unity is alluded. Depp. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U32	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U33	The High Saeima! As always, there are two questions that all tried to answer: who is guilty and what to do. Any opposition in any parliament will definitely and unequivocally say that there is a government at all, and much of the truth in this case is also there. It is much more difficult to answer a question about what to do. ( FROM a faction: “The government is changing! ” ) It is fair to say that when the National Development Plan was drawn up and an institution such as the Centre for the Coordination of Reconservators was also set up, it was undoubtedly a step forward, as a specific substance appeared for specific discussions, indicators appeared, targets appeared. We get them or we do not reach them: it is a matter of separate negotiations. But if we are talking about what to do, I think it is very important to pay much more attention to modernising the model of public administration. Today, there is a pretty funny situation. Well, let's say one example. At least four ministries are involved in housing matters, which I think is very important for anyone living in Latvia, and therefore housing policy in Latvia is fragmented, just as the actions of ministries are fragmented. It's about attracting investment. Working well or badly, but working under the auspices of the Ministry of Economics, the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia (LIAA). A new agency under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance is now being created, which will deal with similar problems. The question is, is it really necessary? Do we need two bodies to deal with this? Will this really help to attract investment? And is that not a direct question that the government should answer? And finally. You can modernise the structure of ministries, the activities of ministries on one condition - that there is a unified government policy, but... To be honest, I do not know today who represents a swan in the government that represents a cancer that represents a pike. — Hall laughter. , but to be honest, government action and government policy are very similar to the fable written by Krilov in his own time. I would very much like the Cabinet to be able to overcome this trend and, however, to take a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U34	Mr. Spolish, will you have enough two minutes to debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U35	President-in-Office. Highly honored Saeima! Here the spears were broken for what has been done and what has not been done, but thank the Prime Minister for his report. So this work has now been done, and in fact, in my opinion, the biggest subject of discussion here is very simple. We see that it is written here that it is a report on the Latvian Sustainable Development Strategy by 2030 and the National Development Plan for 2014-2020. So it's a strategy, and so there's a question of what we want to achieve strategically, not tactfully, going in step back and forth, perhaps in some way agreeing on another issue, so that it can be achieved more quickly. I understand, therefore, of course, that the opposition must point to mistakes in achieving the strategic objectives and, in this respect, thank Mr Kučinska from the Commission on Sustainable Development for the way in which it was pointed out what has been achieved. Thank you also to Mr Cilinski for these indicative indicators, which perhaps should be reviewed and which perhaps was too... So look negative. But in this situation, if we are talking about the strategy, I thank Mr. Adamson for a reminder that I think was a little wrong... on the fact that we seem to be simply enforcing directives. No, we are not only implementing directives, but we have been very well-founded members of the Euro-Atlantic area for the last 10 years. Consequently, this strategy, which was adopted here in the Saeima by our predecessors in 1995, concluding an association agreement, entering the European Union and later... Ten years later, NATO, too, has been right. And in this situation - what my colleague, Mrs Chigan, has already said - "to lay down" the country is the simplest, but thinking about how to work together and how to achieve these strategic goals by then 2020. ... Until then 2030, we should do this and work for our country - Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U36	Thank you. Colleagues, let us continue the debate after a break! But before we go on a break, you have to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, the name to the member of the Saeima Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U37	Dear Members of the Legal Commission, I would remind you that a short meeting of the Legal Commission will take place immediately after that meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U38	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U39	Colleagues, Members of the Committee on European Affairs, please gather in the Red Chamber for the meeting of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U40	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U41	Dear colleagues, currently not registered: Guntis Belēvičs, Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Nellija Kleinberga, Rihards Kols, Vilnis Ķirsis, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Igors Pimenovs, Edgars Putra, Jānis Trupovnieks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U42	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U43	Colleagues, I call you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. So on the agenda is “Sustainable Development Strategy of Latvia by 2030, National Development Plan 2014-2020 and Report on Monitoring the Implementation of the Activities planned by the Cabinet of Ministers, led by Laimdotas Straujuma”. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U44	Dear President of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister, Dear colleagues, I became very careful about this report, followed closely and highlighted the areas that I had doubts about. And it has to be said that there were so many doubts about this document. But I would like to focus on two things in order not to distract your attention with too long speeches, and I hope that the government may pay attention to them next year, or during the next reference period. Dear colleagues, We have also received the next year's budget with all the figures and priorities included there. And one of the issues I have signed up to in this report is the subject of a great deal of question, which actually also relates to the budget. If we want to make Latvia's income bigger, we all understand that we need to develop the economy, we need to develop entrepreneurship, support investment and the rest. And on pages 35 and 36 of the report, there is a very beautiful talk about investment protection, about business development, about improving the environment, and it says beautifully: "There is a need for a stable regulatory framework. A predictable tax policy is needed." Which year will we offer this stable base and a stable tax policy to entrepreneurs if we are once again, this year, in the draft budget and in the ideas accompanying it, to change this tax policy rapidly, what has been promised for several years, and even last year?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We are leaving the same again this year! Dear colleagues, It is about legal stability and rule of law in Latvia. Can those people who sleep in companies and develop them plan their activities? And I really... Perhaps colleagues who have been working in Parliament for many years and who have a great deal of experience have really faced a situation like this... But I was very surprised yesterday when we met in our party “From the Heart to Latvia”... At one table, both employers and workers sat with us and jointly pointed to the same problems on this issue, that is, on the issue of the stability of tax policy. I very much hope that in Latvia we will be able to plan these taxes in time, and I very much hope that in the future people will not have to pay from their income in advance of the country and ask back one year later what they are relieved of... And the second issue that deeply concerns me as a lawyer and also as a Latvian citizen is one that has been discussed in section 5.1; it is the last chapter and it is about security in the country. We often worry about the fact that Latvian courts do not judge the perpetrators, criminals, or that penalties are too soft. But the Prosecutor General of Latvia has repeatedly highlighted the issue of the quality of investigation. The judges also pointed out that the evidence was weak. Is the Latvian government just one word in the declaration... No, the declaration is all right, but the report... What has been done to increase the professionalism of investigators? I may indirectly, but would like to emphasise that there is no professional high-level education institution in Latvia to prepare professional investigators. This was the case of the Latvian Police Academy. And so I very much draw the government's attention to the fact that the National Development Plan... Only five years are left by 2020. But it would be very happy to think about the restoration of the operation of this institution, because in Latvia people still want the crimes to be discovered - in addition, professionally disclosed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U45	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U46	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mrs. Strautums! Having read the Government's report on the strategy and plan, I would like to draw attention to one very important thing that has been voiced today and is also recorded there: the government's desire to return to the compulsory health insurance problem. I believe that this is a very courageous step in a way - the Saeima's decision not to continue the 11th Saeima's so-called law of Ingrīda Circene, the return to this problem and the correction of the Saeima's error, because the majority of the Saeima nevertheless decided not to continue work on this law. We can't live from year to year... from one parliamentary term to another without a clear perspective on what will be with healthcare, which will be with patients with patients. That, in my opinion, is very important. In a way, today is a historic day when the government is facing up to this problem. I would like, Mrs Straujuma, to thank you for this - for this courage and to assure you that everything that has been accumulated - our experience, knowledge of what is happening in Lithuania and Estonia, where such systems have been operating since the beginning of independence, will be put into practice, and I think that we will be able to join forces until 2020... I think one year will go to this reform and the legislative package, and within two years reforms to implement these changes would be necessary. Overall, I note a completely satisfactory and good strategic vision, including a vision of how it was done and what was done... what we have done during the Latvian Presidency, which I think really is a great contribution to raising the authority of Latvia and all of us, the national parliamentarians of the Republic of Latvia, because that is what we can be proud of when we talk to our colleagues in the Baltic Assembly or when we travel to Strasbourg or Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U47	Thank you. The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U48	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues! Hello, Madam President. Could I use 7 minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U49	Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U50	Maybe I'm not going to talk for so long, but, well, in every case... I would like to refer to point 4.3 of this vast document, entitled 'Conclusive structure and economic activity in the regions'. This topic is of particular interest to me as Members elected from Latgale. Knowing the problems and situation of all Latgale, I considered this chapter and remembered the situation about 20 years ago. It seems to me that it was the year 1995 when I spoke to a representative of the ruling political power in Latgale, who is the dominant power for all these 20 years, the leaders of this political power to share their fears and concerns about their observations - that there is a sharp decline in the number of people in Latgale and its border area, that this initiative of the people has emerged during the first years of independence, this desire to return to the father's home, to rebuild the destroyed homes of the families, and to rebuild the destroyed houses of the families, and that people are beginning to walk away from these already assembled, more or less constructed buildings, cultivated lands. Why? Because people did not get any support for this initiative but, above all, they did not get a vision of the future, of what their future could then be, if they linked their lives and the lives of their children to being in this father's home, their home, which they have restored after the collapse of the Soviet era. So I spoke to this politician about this problem and I was really nervous, but I got a very surprising answer, and that shocked me. And I've been living all these 20 years in that shock. The politician said that he was not at all concerned, and he said with all seriousness that there was nothing to worry about - if there were no people there, then these areas would stop with trees. I have no data from the State Forest Service on how many trees are planted in these areas, from which people have left, but I have other data. According to the State Land Service data, there are 7334 officially listed villages in Latvia, which are also registered in the address register. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) However, 482 of these 7334 villages have no buildings, and logically no people live there. Only one building is registered in 567 villages, and only two buildings in 516 villages. This means that 1565 settlements in Latvia, which proudly carry the name of the village, cannot be called even villages. At least each fifth village marked on the map of Latvia is just a name, because an populated area, where only two houses are inhabited, should not be considered as a village. And it should be stressed that in the future the number of villages will drop significantly, because there are hundreds of villages in Latvia, where the population is only a few old people. Local governments now list these fallen villages, and a massive audit of the Latvian map could be launched shortly. In Daugavpils municipality 43 villages can be considered dead, most of them in Tabore parish - 12, in Demene parish - 11, in Ambēļu parish - 8. In Kraslava municipality there are 20 deserted villages, in Baltinavas municipality - 19. Prizes in the municipality - 18, in the municipality of Viļaka - 15. By the way, there are 11 deserted villages in the vicinity of Riga - Ķegums region. ( Interface from the drug: “Urbanization! ” ) Yes, to some extent! All of us also know the 2011 census data of the Latvian people. Latvia has 1.9 million inhabitants. Since 2000, the population in Latvia has decreased by about 309 thousand people or 13 percent. But there are 32.2 percent of children who are particularly concerned. They are children aged between zero and 14 years, and they are 138,000 children. And the number of people in working age has decreased by 12.3 percent, and it is 185,000 people. Of course, worse results are in the Latgale region, where the population has fallen by 41.7 percent. But this is not the worst result. Latgale region in this respect exceeds Vidzeme region, where it is 44.1 percent less. Thus, the population has fallen the most in Latgale and Vidzeme region. Extremely rapid decline - by 25-33 percent! - were Aglona, Alojas, Alsunga, Baltinavas, Cibla, Dagda, Ērgļi, Jēkabpils, Kārsava, Nereta, Rugāju, Rundāle, Tērvete and Viļaka. Only in the regions of Pierīga, the population has increased by 3.2 percent overall. The problem is that there is no sustainable population policy in Latvia. No one knows what effect it will be that uninhabited areas will remain on the eastern border of the European Union, “holes” will appear in the middle of Latvia and fields near Lithuania will degrade. Instead, on page 160 of this vast document we are discussing, we are offered to use the approach of future development or this process of sinking “smart contraction”. I was really shocked about this term, and I couldn't understand how I really meant it, and I formulated it for myself as a very cynical term in this...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U51	Mrs Šimfas, your speaking time, I am sorry, is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U52	... in the context of statistics. ( Interviews from the drug: “Time! Time!” ) Shock! I understand that this document and this chapter are, in fact, a certificate for national regional policy...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U53	Dear Mrs. Schiffe, you have used the time you asked for - 7 minutes! ( Interviews from the Hall: “Let it speak! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U54	Seven minutes already, huh? Could I finish yet? ( Medications. Depp. K. Šadurskis: “It’s good, enough!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U55	Mrs. Schiffe, how long do you need?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U56	One minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U57	So, it's the Member who said... Do Members want to allow Mrs Šimfas to speak yet? ( Interfaces from the drug: “No! ” “Let’s talk!” Depp. K. Šadurskis: “No, it’s enough!” ) Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. Then, Mrs. Schiffe, understand that the will of colleagues is... ( Intercretion from the Hall: “Let it speak! ” ) So, so...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U58	Some say, “Let’s talk!” Some say, “No!” ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U59	So we have to vote. Colleagues, please call us! Let us vote in favour of allowing Mrs Šimfas to continue for two more minutes. Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 46, against - 3, refraining from - 4. ( Insight from the room: “For the motives of the vote! ” It's laughter.) Please! Two minutes by decision of the Saeima is given to you!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U60	So I can go on? Thank you, colleagues. So I believe that in the whole context of what I have said, this chapter in this serious document is in fact a poverty certificate for national regional policy, the country's liberal policy so far, in this area. And I have a question: wouldn't it be time to admit... simply acknowledge that the central government is unable or unwilling to ensure the smooth development of the entire country and to enable local authorities to save the country, as they have already done in the first years of national independence? And not to talk again about another merger and increase, and to tell misleading things about the fact that by merging municipalities will become stronger and will be better able to provide services to citizens, because administrative territorial reform shows the opposite. ( INTERPRETATION OF THE GROUP. Depp. I. Viņķelis: “Really?” ) And the fact that the country is doing enough to invest in the development of the regions as well as in various programmes... One of the Members has already spoken about this. Someone would argue that these funds can, however, improve the situation in the regions, but professionals who study and follow these cases say that regional development instruments are in place to reduce territorial disparities and list these instruments. And these are: development programmes for particularly assisted regions, targeted grants for municipal development planning, free and special economic zones, but the range of these instruments... ( Interviews from the drug: “Time! Time!” Members of the political group are beginning to be applauded.) ... does not cover the entire country. Their capacity is currently limited compared to sectoral and sectoral development instruments, and they cannot significantly reduce...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U61	Your two extra minutes have already passed, Mrs Schiffe. ( Interviews from the Hall: “Let it speak as much as you want! ” Noise is resting.) Mrs. Schiffe, your two extra minutes have moved!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U62	Give me another one!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U63	Or... Mrs Šimfas, do you need extra time for the discussions? ( Medications.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U64	What? ( Interface from the drug: “Time Is Going! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U65	So, Mrs Schiffe, I asked you: do you need more time?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U67	You have already used two extra minutes. ( From the drug depot. A.Klementjevs: “There’s nowhere to start! Let him speak!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U68	If my colleagues give me another... ( Medications.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U69	How much time do you need for us to decide on this? ( From the drug depot. S. Āboltiņa: “Mr. Shifas, do not shame Parliament!” (See the box below.) All right, colleagues! I do not hear an answer from Mrs Shiff. Please turn off the microphone and... The debate is closed. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Thank you. (Applause) From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “How low!” ) Madam Prime Minister, do you want to add something after the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U70	First of all, thank you to all Members for the proposals - and especially for the constructive proposals - that we will certainly use. And I fully support what Mr Kučinski said: we cannot watch and view staticly now: we are fixed and let us live on! I would like to inform Members that we have regular meetings of the National Development Council. Last time in the Council we discussed the subject of mutual relations - "Business and the judiciary" - and in October we will look at "Business and local governments". So business representatives put forward their proposals that can be improved in the work of municipalities. And so step by step we will go to meet the indicators where we see failure. I would, however, like to remind some members of the opposition of things that have been done a long time ago. For example, the Smart Development Strategy has already been adopted, the government has already... ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “No one understands it, because it is in four documents!” ) All right! So it's accepted. If we are talking about pensions, which have been calculated with a negative capital index in 2010 and in other previous years, then we have to say that the draft budget provides for a conversion in 2016... In 2016, 2017 we will recalculate the pensions of 2011 and so on. There is a procedure for recalculating pensions for other years. Go on. To build justice systems... the qualification of people in the justice system, has been set at several tens of millions of euros over the coming years. And that too, I think, will help us to make the system objective. On the budget and on taxes. As I said in my report, as soon as the budget is adopted, the Minister of Finance, together with the social partners and the social partners, will start working for three years, so a medium-term tax strategy should not be considered on a yearly basis. So there will be a three-year strategy. I fully agree with what has been said about funding science and innovation. And with innovation, I am not only thinking of our economy, our business; innovation is also very important in public administration. And I very much hope that we will all be innovative, because otherwise we, two million, cannot show ourselves to the world. Thank you - and also for the innovations. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U71	Thank you Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma. Colleagues, that is why this report is considered. Before we continue the sitting of the Saeima, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from the Legal Commission to amend the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 1 October and to include in it the draft law drafted by the Board “Amendment to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Sport” presented by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. ‘ Ainars Latkovskis has applied for a speech about”
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U72	Yes, colleagues, very briefly. How serious the problem is, I think, the public learned more from the last lottery and gambling monitoring inspection report, where, by collecting data on global totalizers, there appeared a figure that shows what rates (average) are being charged for one football game in Latvia, and that is EUR 2.1 million. It was hard to imagine who might be interested in Latvian superfine football games. But this is the case: if such money is in circulation, there are also those who are prepared not only to bring some laurels out of victory, but also to earn income, in this case illegal income, affecting the results of sports games. And not just in football. Also in basketball and other sports. That is why it was important to amend the Sport Law and the Criminal Law, both of which were prepared by the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science, but since our Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention had started this process together with the organisers of sports life in the upper and basketball league, then we also offer to hand over these materials to the responsible commissions. What, then, does the Sports Act provide? A new definition is provided for concerning the negotiation of sports games, or a new article on the manipulation of sports competitions, defining this concept and prohibiting the manipulation of the results of sports games. On the other hand, the Criminal Law provides for severe penalties - up to 3 and 5 years - for manipulation of the results of sports games. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U73	Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to both commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Law” submitted by the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, as well as to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. Thank you. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” submitted by the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Please turn on the microphone to the Member, Maris Kučinskis!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U74	Since both draft laws - this one and the next one - must be in one package, I call on the Commission responsible to define the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U75	Do Members have reservations that the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is responsible? ( From the drug: “No! ” ; “Ir!” ) Members have reservations. We must therefore vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” submitted by the Commission of Public Expenditure and Audit, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as the legal commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -56, for -11, for -14. So the draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Council of the Saeima shall propose that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of wastage of Financial Resources and Property of a Public Person” presented by the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is a responsible commission. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has therefore been passed on to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U76	Dear colleagues, The Presidium of Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” presented by Member Mūrniece, Dzintars, Jansons, Berzins and Latkovska be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and that it be established that it is the committee responsible. According to the parliamentary roll of order, one Member can speak "for", one is "no" to refer the draft law to the commission. ‘ Ināra Mūrniece, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U77	Honorary Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The draft law drawn up and presented by the National Union, which provides for the maintenance of the Saeima's Members' salaries at the current level, is being put to your attention next year. We offer not to raise the salaries of Members of the Saeima and leave them as they are. Colleagues, we are members of the Saeima. We have a great responsibility. We are deciding on many important issues of life, including the state budget. Our first and foremost task is to care for the most vulnerable groups of the population. I am pleased that the government has found an opportunity to increase the minimum wage by EUR 10 next year, to raise the non-taxable minimum by as much amount as possible and to introduce a solidarity tax so that the recipients of high wages pay similar taxes as the beneficiaries of low wages. There are other initiatives that lead to social solidarity. At the same time, there are quite a lot of work not done, quite a lot of unsolved things. We have received a call signed by 70 000 pensioners in the Saeima on pension indexation, but the government has not discussed this, and there is no initiative in the draft budget. The call signed by 70 000 pensioners has come to the Saeima and I hope that it will be on the commission agenda as soon as possible. Obviously, compromises will have to be sought and steps taken in this direction as well. The question of the model for financing teachers' pay has not been resolved to the end. Also, wages in a number of areas requiring much human attention and hard work (e.g. nurses) are still very low. Colleagues! We're not living in the ideal world. Only in the ideal world can there be general satisfaction. Today we are far from it. We can draw closer to Latvia if we first think about others and only then think about ourselves. Members of the Saeima are the leaders of the people, and we each have received a credit for the trust of our voters, the Latvian people. It depends on what will happen with this credit of trust - whether we waste it and be disappointed with the work of Parliament or, on the contrary, with it! - We'll be able to increase this trust credit. Unlike the draft law presented by the Association of the Regions of Latvia, the National Association proposes to freeze only the salaries of members of the Saeima (we decide only for ourselves!) , and this draft law does not apply to the Prime Minister (the Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) remuneration of officials of the Minister, Parliamentary Secretaries, the Ombudsman, the State Audit Office, the Central Electoral Commission, the Central Land Commission, the Higher Education Council and other independent institutions. I call on the draft law drawn up by the National Association to be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U78	Thank you. ‘ No one has applied to speak against the referral of the draft law to the commission. Do Members object that this draft law is passed on to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government in determining its responsibility? Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft laws “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” submitted by Member Mūrniece, Dzintars, Jansons, Berzins and Latkovska to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 12, for - 26. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U79	The Saeima Bureau proposes a draft law tabled by Member Liepiņa, Viļuma, Bites, Šica, Ruka and Bondara (The head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer because of the noise in the hall.) “Amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” shall be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug: “Yes! ” “This is better!” ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 364/Lp12) to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 10, for - 30. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Council of the Saeima shall propose that the draft law drawn up by the Legal Commission “Amendment to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is Members' requests. On the agenda, a request from the Member Andreja Elksniņa, Jānis Urbanoviča, Valija Agešina, Ivana Ribakova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Mihaila Zemļinska, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimira Nikonova and Marjana Ivanova-Jevsevsevsevs, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards, about the situation in Daugavpils city municipality. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U80	Hello, colleagues! The request was examined by our committee. There was a very constructive conversation. Thanks to the applicants - and Mr Elksniņš in particular - for a very detailed presentation of the situation. The subject is, in my opinion, quite topical. And the Members had an in-depth discussion about this. Mr Edgars Tavars, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, spoke with arguments on this issue, whose arguments were quite convincing. The Commission therefore rejected this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U81	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U82	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The request “On the situation in Daugavpils City Municipality” was addressed to Mr Gerhard, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The purpose of the specific request is to analyse three situations regarding the actions of the Responsible Officials of Daugavpils City Municipality in a situation where the State Regional Development Agency, including the Environmental Investment Fund, the priority of which is to implement qualitative and effective projects financed by the European Union in local governments, has established the applicable corrections of local authorities in projects implemented by the European Union for a total amount of 4 million euros, as well as would not receive... not received funding from the Environmental Investment Fund of at least one and a half million more. To a large extent, representatives of VARAM have pointed out that the situation in Daugavpils municipality is falling outside... and is more critical than all other municipalities that the amount of adjustments applied on the part of Daugavpils city municipality is to a large extent unacceptable, because they have a significant impact on the municipal budget. Special resonance regarding the actual circumstances of implementation of the projects subject to certain adjustments was also caused by cases when the members of the Chairman of Daugavpils City Council party - they are members of Latgale Party, members of the Unity Party - and the persons close to them take part in Daugavpils municipality as subcontractors for the use of financial resources. And a concrete example is the improvement of energy efficiency at the Daugavpils preschool educational institution. What is actually happening in Daugavpils municipality? There's a buy-in that wins the party-funded... ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķele: “In Riga likes!” ) Unity financiers. Specific donors with specific surnames. As a result, other entrepreneurs are chosen as subcontractors, who actually... The company belongs to a particular natural person, who is, for example, a particular member of the Latgale Party of Unity and is also a candidate for municipal council elections. What do I mean, my fellow Members? To a large extent, this particular case shows that the disposal of municipal funds does not take place in cities... that this activity takes place not in the interest of the city's inhabitants, but in the interest of certain political actors with certain names, even more for the interests of the entrepreneurs who receive these services and these orders... It is, of course, difficult to assess how good or bad a procurement procedure is. As a result, they claim insolvency after receiving the order and obtaining the funding from the European Union. And the State Revenue Service is currently also proposing criminal proceedings for the particular case of tax evasion. In turn, in other projects involving Daugavpils municipality, for example, improving energy efficiency in the administrative territory of the city, the municipality participates in the competitions announced by VARAM regarding the attraction of funding to Daugavpils municipality. At the same time, the municipality is developing poor quality documents. VARAM and SWF acknowledge that the documents have not been prepared in accordance with the required requirements. At the same time, local authorities have made statements that corruption is flourishing in the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and therefore it would be best for Daugavpils Municipality not to participate in these procurements. At the Commission meeting, we heard both representatives of Daugavpils municipality... It is a pity that the Chairman of the Council Lāčrupis has not honored the members of the Commission with his presence. The position of the commission chairman's request is also understandable... It is about Lāčplēsis, however, being a very high official who could be put to the test in all of this, but we will meet him more than once in the framework of this Committee on Petitions. But what do we want to do with this request? We are indeed largely satisfied with the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. We were also satisfied with the position of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. But we are not satisfied with the situation that has developed in Daugavpils municipality, firstly with regard to the lost millions of implemented projects, secondly with regard to the funds that have not been received from VARAM, as well as with regard to the maintenance of “their” system in Daugavpils municipality. In our view, therefore, honourable colleagues support the request made to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development at the Saeima sitting. We maintain this claim, despite the fact that there is no great fault in the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, but we would like to achieve greater control of Daugavpils municipality from the VARAM, a greater sense of responsibility from those municipal officials who take part in this type of illegal activity and lousy position, as well as calling for THE UNIFORM to stop hiding and showing with a finger on anything else, on other municipalities, but really look that they themselves have a log in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U83	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U84	(From the drug depot. V.Orlovs: “Aldi, you’re an interested person!” ) Dear President, Dear colleagues, I want to introduce some clarity in Mr. Elksniņa's recently outlined situation in Daugavpils with procurement. Currently, these ineligible costs are based on a certificate submitted by the SRS on the absence of an entrepreneur’s tax debt. And as far as I know, at the moment the prosecutor's office has acknowledged that there is no basis for the forgery of this knowledge. And so, I think there is now negotiations to make sure that these costs are allocated... from payments by the European Union... Nothing has been defrauded, and nothing has disappeared, because these more than two million euros have been invested in Daugavpils sites. At the moment, it is just about whether this knowledge will be attributed to money... from European funds, whether it is a credit taken by Daugavpils City Council. But today I would also like to suggest to Mr Elksniņš that perhaps in the future a request be made about the construction work carried out by the municipality of Rezekne. There, as far as I know, there's more than two million as well... ineligible costs. Only here is the reason completely different, because, believe me, over the last few years, in those municipalities where European Union funds have been added, competitions have taken place in a very great hurry and the duration of the construction works has been very small. And so it has often been that this time has been small and the contracts have been extended. And it also sometimes gives rise to ineligible costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U85	The name of the Saeima Member Andrejs Elksniņš, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U86	Dear colleagues, We will be happy to look at Rezekne and all other municipalities, as well as Preili Municipality, Mr Adamovich, and also at all the agreements that you yourself have signed. But this agenda is about a specific municipality. If you have questions about the work of other municipalities - please! You are representatives of the coalition, you are head of the ministries. You can ask to check and communicate in any way that you do, but you do not raise this issue on the agenda in Parliament. This is first and foremost. Second round. Today we are talking about possible adjustments to Daugavpils municipality. A EUR 2.5 million decision has already been made, Mr Adamovich! One and a half million are provisional, and representatives of the MoEPRD at the commission meeting have pointed out that out of 2.5 million... There is a discussion that perhaps this could not be accepted, but could still be added to eligible expenditure of 1 million, but no decision has been taken on this until now. And what do we ask of you? What do we ask of VARAM? The fact that, if such a decision is nevertheless taken by the MoEPRD so that the Ministry and the government you support can set up compensatory mechanisms for the municipality so that, if one hand these ineligible costs are deducted, you can use the other hand from the budget lines to cover these ineligible costs and the deducted funding for the municipality. Has such a proposal come from you up to now? Well, there's no such proposal! Are you holding a debate on this issue? Don't hold it! The only thing you have allowed now is to go ahead and say only to everyone: look at yourself. We look at ourselves, we work with our mistakes, but we want the government to support all the municipalities - all the municipalities! - Oh, really. And let it apply adjustments not when they are required, but that it really applies to all projects. That's the other way around. Third round. Mr Adamovich, you are a member of Latgale Party as a member of the Unity. Please tell me why a member of Latgale Party, its supporter, surname Korobļov, donates to Latgale Party, then receives 500 thousand purchases, then 300 thousand? A criminal case on unpaid taxes has been initiated in the State Revenue Service. Why is that? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Adamovičs and I.Vinķelis intersages.) Answer me! Well, answer me! Come in front and answer why is then the sponsor... No, colleagues, look at this! Imagine this situation. The company associated with Latgale Party wins procurement. Now he's working there, working there, working... The procuring entity shall have the right to subcontract. Right? There's no competition for the subcontractor! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) Then he can figure out what subcontractors to choose. He takes a member of his party as a subcontractor... The company is registered in his name. It's a party member named Mitchun. Don't you know that? I can tell you what members of the party you have. He started as a dome on the electoral roll of Daugavpils City Council... was a candidate for membership. Then he takes... DO YOU really know what you're doing? In your municipalities, as a subcontractor, screwing lamps in kindergartens and earning “otcats” respectively... most likely for your party. ( From the drug depot. A. Adamovics: “They are lies!” ) Well, but aim to be clear with your...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U87	I closed the debate. Colleagues, the debate is closed! Does Mr Brigmann want to add anything on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote for the Member Andreja Elksniņa, Jānis Urbanoviča, Valija Agešina, Ivana Ribakova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Mihaila Zemļinska, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimira Nikonova, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsevsevsevs, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards “On the Situation in Daugavpils City Municipality”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 26, against - 47, refraining from - 2. The request is therefore rejected. The next item on the agenda... So, colleagues, before we continue to examine draft laws, I informed that the application of the Legal Commission with a proposal to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include it in the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Consequently, we can start by looking at the section on the agenda, "Handling draft laws". On the agenda draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U88	Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law”. The draft law is related to the law on institutions and procedures of industrial property adopted at the spring session, provides for the elimination of duplication of norms and clarification of terminology. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined this and supported it. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U90	The Commission will wait until 9 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U91	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 9 October this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the law on the protection of topographies of semiconductor products”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U92	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection of Topographies of semiconductor products”. This draft law, like the previous one, is related to the Law on Industrial Property Institutions and Procedures. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U93	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the protection of semiconductor topographies! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U94	The Commission will wait until 9 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U95	So also for this draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 9 October. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Design Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U96	Like the previous two draft laws, this one is related to the adopted Law on Industrial Property Institutions and Procedures, harmonises terminology and prevents duplication of norms. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science supported amendments to the Design Law. I call on you to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U97	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U98	Let us wait until 9 October for the proposals for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U99	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 9 October this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U100	This is the last draft of the package relating to the law on industrial property institutions and procedures. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications”. I call on you to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U101	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading is thus supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U102	Like everyone else, we will wait until 9 October for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U103	So also for this draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 9 October this year. Thank you. On the agenda next is the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U104	Dear colleagues, The draft law contains, in substance, three blocks of amendments. One of the amendment blocks is related to the European Union documents: there is a directive that needs to be incorporated into Latvian law and that improves a little... improve the rights of persons involved in criminal proceedings. The second block of amendments follows from the so-called case of Chalovsky, where in practice there was... rather with a practical problem with the application of a safety measure, detention control, and therefore, in this case, the law is arranged as it would be more logical and precise to act in such situations. And the third series of questions that are resolved in this draft law is the proposals developed by the Permanent Working Group of the Ministry of Justice, which is working on the improvement of the Criminal Procedure Law, which in practice has created uncertainty... Therefore, in order to eliminate these uncertainties. The Legal Commission examined this draft law and supported it for consideration at first reading by the Saeima. I ask my colleagues to support this decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U105	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U106	Please submit your proposals by 15 October inclusive.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U107	Thank you. So the submission of proposals as usual - October 15, at 5 p.m. And keep working. On the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U108	Dear colleagues, the Commission has examined the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and drafted by VARAM “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”. The amendment concerns only Section 22 of the Law, where it concerns the placement of pre-election campaign materials in public places. In considering this case and taking into account the opinion of the Legal Commission, the Commission supported this draft law and invites the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U110	In view of certain uncertainties in the material submitted, the deadline for the submission of proposals was set by the Commission on 20 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U111	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 20 November this year. On the agenda draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U112	Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the proposal of the Legal Bureau prior to the second reading – to exclude the word “trade union” in Article 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U113	The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U115	Members are in favour. And the Commission apparently calls for support for the draft law at second reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U116	Deadline for submission of proposals - 8 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U117	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 8 October this year. On the agenda, first reading of the draft law on the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U118	Dear President, dear colleagues. We work with document No 1052. The 2012 Doha climate conference agreed on the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, which will run from the beginning of 2013 to the end of 2020. These amendments include quantitative emission limitation or reduction commitments. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law and proposes that it be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U119	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U120	On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U121	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U122	I call for support now for the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U123	Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at final reading has been supported. Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the bill entitled ‘On the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland’s participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U124	We work with document number 1053. This agreement provides that the European Union and Iceland will jointly ensure that their emission reduction commitments are fulfilled within the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined the draft law and is proposing that it be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U125	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland under the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U126	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U127	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on support for the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, for Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U128	On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I also call for support for the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U129	Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on support for the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, for Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second, final, reading is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U131	On the agenda next is the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U132	Dear colleagues, President-in-Office of the Saeima. The Legal Commission has prepared for second reading draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”. Three proposals from the Legal Commission have been received for the second reading. The proposal - the legal commission's proposal - is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U134	The proposal - the Legal Commission's proposal - is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U136	The proposal - the Legal Commission's proposal - has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U138	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to support amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U139	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode. Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U140	The deadline for submitting proposals is October 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U141	Thank you. Proposals are due by 30 October of this year. On the agenda the draft law “On disposal of real estate “Dispečeri” in Taurene municipality, Vecpiebalga municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the Gauja bridge on the P30 Cesis-Vecpiebalga-Madona State Motorway 32,3. km’, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U142	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would remind you on behalf of the Legal Commission that forced expropriation of property is permitted if it has taken place on the basis of a separate law, which we are looking at today. This has been the case for the public, and in this case the public needs are the construction of a 32 Kilogram of the Cesis-Vecpiebalga-Madon State motorway. And this is an exceptional case, because unfortunately, the owner of real estate has failed to agree on the amount of fair remuneration. Here, however, it should be noted that neither the Legal Commission of the Saeima nor the Saeima are entitled to deal with this dispute in accordance with the law. These disputes are being dealt with by the court. Accordingly, we must now decide to support this draft law, before looking at the proposals that have been tabled. So, colleagues, we have received two proposals from the Legal Bureau. Both are of a editorial nature. So the first proposal is the proposal from the Legal Office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U144	2 is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U146	Colleagues, we have examined all the proposals! On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “On disposal of real estate “Dispečeri” in Taurene municipality, Vecpiebalga municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the Gauja bridge on the state highway P30 Cesis-Vecpiebalga-Madon 32,3. km’ at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U147	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for disposal of the draft law “On real estate “Dispečeri” in Taurene municipality, Vecpiebalga municipality, for public needs – for implementation of the reconstruction project of the Gauja bridge on the state highway P30 Cesis-Vecpiebalga-Madona 32,3. kilometer’ support for second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading is therefore supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U148	Deadline for submission of proposals - 6 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U149	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 6 October this year. Draft law on the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, first reading on the agenda Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U150	Hello, again! Any country that wishes to become a member of the European Union shall apply to become a member of the European Economic Area. That is what Croatia wants. The Foreign Affairs Commission has agreed to this and I call on you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U151	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U152	Deadline for submission of proposals - 16 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U153	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 October this year. On the agenda, draft law amending the contract between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. , the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and those Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U154	We work with document No 885. The aim of the Treaty is to prevent illegal imports, distribution, sales and any other illegal activities of cigarettes, to protect legitimate competition in the sale of cigarettes and to protect the rights of legitimate cigarette manufacturers in the field of trade marks. Philip Morris International agrees to provide all reasonable assistance, both directly and indirectly, to the European Union and the Member States in the fight against smuggling and counterfeit cigarettes, including some payments. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law and supported it for consideration by the Saeima at first reading. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U155	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law amending the Treaty between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. Support for the first reading of the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and those Member States indicated on the attached signature pages! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U156	October 16th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U157	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 October this year. The next item is the draft law on the Protocol on the Restriction of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U158	We work with document No 907. This protocol is linked to the World Health Organisation Convention, which aims to reduce the number of deaths and diseases associated with the use of tobacco products in the world. This Protocol provides not only for the prevention of all forms of illicit tobacco trade, but also for the introduction of a system of licensing, equivalent authorisation and supervision by the competent authorities for all natural or legal persons involved in the manufacture, import and export of tobacco products and manufacturing equipment. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law at first reading and supported it, and I call on colleagues to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U159	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Protocol on the suppression of illicit trade in tobacco products! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U160	October 16th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U161	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 October this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U162	These amendments clarify the regulation concerning the issue of licences for goods of strategic importance, its facilitations as well as the exceptions to the granting of licences to institutions under the authority or supervision of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, where these goods are necessary for the execution of an international mission. These amendments also provide for cases where an import licence for goods of strategic importance is not required. Latvian companies will also be facilitated, because without applying for an import licence for certain goods from certain countries, local producers will be facilitated to import such dual-use items as are necessary for their production. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law at first reading and supported it. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U163	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U164	October 16th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U165	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 October this year. On the agenda draft law “On the first reading of the Protocol on the amendment of the Agreement of 23 August 2010 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the simplification of journeys between citizens of the border areas of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus”. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U166	We work with document number 1005. These amendments address the shortcomings identified so far and provide for new principles, such as the inclusion of cousins and cousins in the category of relatives. It simplifies mutual travel by refusing to draw up a list of border residents, which also alleviates the administrative burden for these people, since prior authorisation had to be sought in two different institutions. In future, no marks for crossing the borders will be made in the travel documents. The Foreign Affairs Commission discussed, discussed and supported this at first reading. I also call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U167	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On the Protocol on the Agreement of 23 August 2010 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the simplification of journeys between citizens of the border areas of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U168	Deadline for submission of proposals - 16 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U169	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 16 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U170	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U171	On the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U172	Dear colleagues, these are the current amendments to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the activities of public officials. This draft law, drawn up by the Ministry of Defence and submitted to the Saeima through the Cabinet of Ministers, has been examined by the Commission. In this project, the amendments refer to the Landguards who, on the basis of the contract, carry out the duties of a soldier in the absence of a soldier or in the event of a vacancy. The Commission has examined this draft law and calls for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U173	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has therefore been approved at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U174	Taking into account that there will also be other amendments to this law, the Commission's decision on the deadline for the submission of proposals is to set 20 November... 20 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U175	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 20 November this year. Thank you. On the agenda, Draft Law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U176	Hello, dear colleagues! So to your attention the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”, second reading. The commission responsible has received eight proposals. I would remind you that this draft law provides for diving restrictions in the Baltic Sea. So it's 1. - the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Mr Panthejeva, to introduce the new term "diving". So in the future we will know what diving is. And this proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U178	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U180	Similarly supported are 3. - Dan Reizniece-Ozola's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U182	And 4. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U184	The aid is also 5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U186	Six more. - Proposal by the Legal Bureau (The Head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) - are supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U188	Also seven. - The legal bureau's proposal - is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U190	Please also support the last proposal, 8 - Law Office.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U191	That is something that Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U192	And so I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U193	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on the protection and management of the marine environment! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U194	The Commission responsible will wait until 15 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U195	Thank you. Proposals are due by 15 October of this year. The next item on the agenda is the draft law on the electronic identification of natural persons, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U196	Colleagues, we work on the draft law on the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons. The Legal Office of the Saeima has worked very hard and 48 proposals have been submitted to us. 1. - a proposal from former Minister of Defence Vejonis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U198	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U200	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U202	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U204	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U206	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U208	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U210	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U212	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U214	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U216	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U218	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U220	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U222	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U224	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U226	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U228	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U229	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U230	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U232	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U234	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U236	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U238	The legal bureau has also tabled proposal 22, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U239	This is also supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U240	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U242	24. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Rihards Kozlovska, which has been partly supported and included in Amendment 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U243	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U244	Also 25. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky, is supported and included in Amendment 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U245	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U246	Also 26. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky, is supported and included in Amendment 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U247	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U248	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U250	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U252	29. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Proposal 41 has been supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U253	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U254	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U256	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U258	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U260	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in proposal 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U261	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U262	34. - a proposal from the committee responsible which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U264	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U266	36. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has been partly supported and included in proposal 37.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U267	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U268	The 37th proposal, which includes the previous one, is a proposal from the responsible commission and has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U270	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U272	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U274	40. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in proposal 41.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U275	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U276	41. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U278	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U280	43. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. He has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U282	44. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U284	45. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U286	46. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U288	47. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U290	48. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U292	Thank you to the applicants. We have examined all the proposals and I call on the Commission to adopt the draft law at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U293	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law on the electronic identification of natural persons! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U294	Let us look forward to the Commission's proposals by 15 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U295	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 15 October of this year. Colleagues, Members Solvita Āboltiņa, Kārlis Šadurska, Hosama Abu Meri, Ainārs Mežulis and Artis Rasmanis have received a signed application asking to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are discussed. Are there any objections to Members? Members have no reservations. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U296	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission prepared the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges”, because amendments adopted and supported by our own law “On Judicial Power” provide that from 1 January of this year the post of Deputy Chief Justice of the Supreme Court is being reorganized and the post of Deputy Chief Justice of the Supreme Court is being eliminated within the framework of reorganisation. However, in the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges, this position is mentioned and the head of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee is also the Deputy Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. So this term is now... This amendment provides that the words “Deputy Chairman of the Supreme Court” are replaced by “Chairman of the Department of the Supreme Court”. As the mandate of the Chair of this Judicial Disciplinary Committee expires in November 2015, the Legal Commission decided to ask the Saeima to grant urgency to this draft law. And since this is also one of the draft laws relating to judicial power and it is mandatory to be compatible with the Council for the Judiciary, I would like to inform you that the Council for the Judiciary has also supported and conceptually therefore supports that we could adopt it as soon as possible. So I ask you to give this draft law urgency and to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U297	Thank you. Let us first vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. And the Commission has also asked for its support at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U298	The deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 October, and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 8 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U299	Thank you. Therefore, the proposals should be submitted by 5 October of this year, the examination period at the Saeima sitting - 8 October of this year. Colleagues, in connection with the answers to Members' questions scheduled today, informed me that the question for Members Zarina, Mirska, Raimonds Rubika, Potapkin and Orlov was received to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, about the Ministry of the Economy's inactions in the field of construction. It has been answered in writing but is not satisfied with the applicants. However, the Prime Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. Regarding the Member's question to the Minister for Health Guntis Belevičs, the Minister for Silver, May, Baložs, Shimfas and Platoper, about the implementation of the e-health project, the written responses are not satisfied, but the Minister informs us that he cannot attend the oral response today. Regarding the question asked by Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, the Minister for Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola, about the faster liberalisation of the gas market, the written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister cannot come to the oral response today. The written response received by Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister for Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On Collisions in the Construction Sector” is not satisfied, but the Minister informs that it is not possible to attend the oral response today. The question of Members Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Zariņa, Agešina and Arthur Rubika to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the plan of events regarding the possible mass arrival of asylum seekers in Latvia”. The question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Kozlovsky, and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Rinkēvičs. A written reply which does not satisfy the applicants has been received. The Minister of the Interior shall inform him that he is unable to appear before him to give an oral answer. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the Regulatory Regulation of the Construction Sector” by Member Zariņa, Zemļinska, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova. The question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs us that it is not possible to arrive today to give an oral answer. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Latvia’s position on the issue of refugee quotas” by Members Zarina, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova. The question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rihard Kozlovski, and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Edgars Rinkēvičs. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister of the Interior informs that he cannot arrive today to give an oral answer. Regarding the question asked by Member Pimenova, Ribakava, Urbanoviča, Elksniņa and Agešina, Minister of Finance Janis Reirs, about the planned amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, the applicants are not satisfied with the written reply, but the Minister informs that it is not possible to present an oral answer today. Regarding the question of Member Silver, May, Platoper, Balož and Šymfa, Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile, about the development of science and its financing, the written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs us that it is not possible to come to the response today. The written reply received from the Minister of Transport of Silver, May, Platoper, Baloža and Šymfas, Anri Matīss, about the agreement signed by Joint Stock Company Air Baltic Corporation with Bombardier Inc., is satisfactory. Therefore, my fellow Members, I must inform you that the meeting of questions and answers scheduled for today will not take place. Members' questions have also been received. Members Igors Pimenovs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Andrejs Klementjevs, Arthur Rubiks and Jānis Adamsons have submitted a question to Members “On a minor Latvian citizen Katrina Brice, who is kept by the British social service”. We refer the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Edgars Rinkēvičs, for a reply. Members Inguna Silverba, Silvija Šimfa, Aivars Meija, Ringolds Balodis and Arvīds Platopers have asked Members about the accessibility of education of interests and the development of an education system of interests. We hand it over to the Minister of Education and Science, Mārīte Seile, for a reply. Members Inguna Silverba, Silvija Šimfa, Aivars Meija, Ringolds Balodis and Arvīds Platopers have asked Members about the development of the Port of Liepaja and special economic zone and the attraction of cargo to the Latvian logistics sector. We hand it over to the Minister of Transport, Anry Matīss, to answer. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Arthur Rubiks, Jānis Tutins and Ivans Ribakovs have asked Members about the Smart Specialisation Strategy. We hand it over to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma for a reply, and Ivars Zarins, based on the seventh part of Article 119 of the Parliamentary Order, has asked him to give his name for a motivation... for clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U300	Colleagues! Today we discussed the report on sustainable development. During the discussion, the Head of Government made a heated, courageous attempt to claim that we have a strategy for smart specialisation. Since, apart from the government, no one else has seen it, we humbly ask the government to submit this document to us, because for at least half a year in the Information Technology and Innovative Business Commission, which took part in several meetings by representatives of the Latvian Academy of Sciences, representatives of the Latvian Institute of Organic Synthesis, and representatives of the Institute of Solid Physics of the University of Latvia (they are our leading scientific institutions!) No one has ever had the opportunity to see it, and we have never been able to get it so far. We very much hope that this will be successful this time and that the Prime Minister will be able to present this strategy, according to which all our further beautiful growth will take place.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U301	Thank you. Colleagues, the agenda of the sitting has been examined and we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the notification to Member Lolita Chiganė.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U302	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The meeting of the Committee on European Affairs will continue immediately in the Red Chamber - in just one minute's time, not at the time previously announced. So the European Affairs Commission's follow-up to the sitting is now in the Red Chamber. See you there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U303	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U304	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Guntis Belēvičs, Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Nellija Kleinberga, Rihards Kols, Vilnis Ķirsis, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Igors Pimenovs, Edgars Putra, Jānis Trupovnieks and Mihails Zemļinskis. ( From the drug depot. M.Zemlinskis: “Here!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-10-01-PT12-320-U305	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
