ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U1	Dear colleagues, the clock is 9 a.m. I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the Saeima sitting. Before starting to discuss the agenda of a sitting, proposals for amendments to the agenda of a sitting should be examined. Consequently, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion in it of the draft decision ‘On the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Competition Law’ (No 269/Lp12) until 8 October this year’. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Noras Pakules as a judge of a district (city) court’. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the agenda of the sitting be amended to include the draft decision ‘On the re-appointment of Marina Romanova as a judge of the district (city) court’. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda of the sitting has therefore been amended. The agenda of the next meeting was the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Gunārs Kūtra, Ingunas Silverba, Aivars Maya, Sylvia Simfa and Arvīds Platoper's draft law "Amendments to the Law on National Referendums, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative" be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Good morning! Constitutional values seem to all of us to know things, at least if necessary each of us calls on them and calls for respect, respect. And it seems that democracy and the sovereign rights of the people are the values that we mention most often. I once felt that understanding of these values should not change. As society develops, the content of these values can be supplemented or supplemented, but understanding of the values often depends on whether or not a person has power. I can give you an example of an event in our history. More than five years ago, representatives of a new and promising party, who was in the opposition of the Saeima at the time, fought publicly that there were no restrictions on democracy, i.e. that 10 thousand voters would not have to pay for the signature of a notary, and went with such an application to the Constitutional Court. After many years, these same people were afraid of their own people, only when they came to power and became leaders in decision-making. They felt that the people were not smart enough, that they could conspiracy and act against the interests of Latvia, namely against their own interests. In order to protect itself and the people from such practices, legal standards were created that made it possible for the people to make mandatory demands on the condition that they sign up to more than 150,000 people. Does any real-thinking member of the Saeima think that without a special funded campaign, it is possible to address and activate 150 thousand Latvian voters without advertising to go, sign and pay for it? And will the people of Latvia always have this money? In its time, the Constitutional Court recognised that Article 1 of the Satversme has not been violated by the norms of the particular law, the Saeima has acted within the limits of its freedom of action. At the same time, however, the legislator was also obliged to consider periodically whether or not the legal framework is still effective and in what way it should not be improved. The judgment clearly recorded that during the transitional period and after 1 January 2015, the legislator had to follow the procedure established by the contested regulation to be enforceable and voters could exercise their right of legislative initiative effectively. I tried to exercise my citizen's rights this year - I wanted to sign up to a specific legislative initiative - and I was convinced that its order, or the system, which the representatives of the Saeima and the state institutions spoke about very convincingly at the hearing - was easy to sign, that it could be done at any time and electronically, and free of charge, that its system was working. It turns out that you cannot access the notary immediately, but you have to apply for several days ahead. If you do not leave with your leaflet, you must pay more than the amount of the signature attestation. In turn, electronic signing turns out to be necessary to buy some stick to the computer to be able to vote. So there is less simple voting here for the common people. Today, you are offered a draft law that slightly returns to the good ideas that were, of course, still good in the law, which were in the new regulation, namely, ensuring the quality of the process, control and access to justice. The second innovation in this draft law is the consultative referendums. If you, Members, meet your constituents, I hope that you can quite often hear the phrase that the gap between decision-makers and the people is growing. In such a case, decision-makers do not always remember what they had promised. And the greatest expression in this case was precisely about refugee issues. The new draft law offers a consultative referendum in such situations. I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law, and thus you will confirm that you trust Latvian voters that you are not afraid that the people themselves - not only its representatives in the Saeima! - may decide on its own actions and adopt its own laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( From the drug: “Yes! ” ) Members have reservations. We must therefore vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Medications: “Do not work... !” “Do not work by voting!” ) Please see the result. So the system doesn't work. ( The drug is noise. (See the box below.) Re-voting? Colleagues, for technical reasons, we need to repeat the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Medications. Depp. A.Kamiņš: “The system doesn’t work!” ) How long does it take to arrange the voting system? ( The ringing of noise, the knead, the groaning of the groan. Depp. K. Šadurskis: “Let’s vote until it is!” ) I have no result... It doesn't give me a result. ( From the hall: “You can’t vote with your hand? ” ) Yes. Colleagues, I have informed you that the result is currently not available and that the voting system is, by its very nature, not fully working. I'm declaring a technical break. How long does it take? Half an hour? Technical break - half an hour till 9:40 a.m. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U4	Colleagues! The clock is 9.40 and the technical break is over. I hope that the voting system works. Please remove the voting cards from all Members and reinsert them! Colleagues, have Members managed to remove and insert voting cards? ( From the drug: “Yes! ” ) Yes, thank you. So I'm asking you for a call! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 17, for - 40. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law “On the Regulation of Personal Face Coverage in Public Places” presented to the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission by Diņa Liepiņa, Mārtiņš Šics, Nelli Kleinberga, Mārtiņš Bondara and Jānis Rūks” be submitted to the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Legal Commission. ‘ About” Ms Inga Bite, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U5	Dear colleagues, The draft law that we propose to you today provides that public places are prohibited from being with a covered face. Social networks have already made a number of comments about the situations in which people need to be covered for objective reasons. Therefore, by examining their practices in the countries of the European Union currently under this framework, we have also provided for certain exceptions. In particular, covering of the face would be permitted if it is related to the performance of the work (the grass has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , service, health, sports, art, traditional cultural events (e.g. heretics would be allowed to cover the face in this process) or so. Exceptions may also be provided for in other laws. I would like to divide my reasoning into three parts: the first part - preservation of the Latvian cultural environment; the second part - ensuring the internal security of Latvia and the third part - gender equality. As regards the preservation of the cultural environment of Latvia, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, which each of us has committed to observe in the oath of our Member, obliges us to guarantee the existence of Latvian culture throughout the centuries. A culture of eclipse is one of the components of culture. Aija Odiņš writes in her book Book of Applied and Formal Conduct: “The clothing signals whether its wearer respects the standards of society or ignores them. Also, if a person represents himself only, he must follow the daily label.” A member of the Saeima who, according to him, came to the Saeima for an urgent sitting without being able to change – on shorts, has attracted the attention of the general public. ( From the hall, Who was it?) ) In 2010, several journalists were not included in the list of candidates for Members in the Saeima because they were not dressed in accordance with the rules. Last week, at the Saeima sitting, one Member was told that he had to get up in a jacket at the Saeima. These examples and many others confirm that there is a certain dressed culture in Latvia, which must be respected both in the domestic and in the performance of their duties. Cultural diversity is beautiful, but it has boundaries. When we travel to Muslim countries, bikini and ministry stay either at home or in a suitcase, because the culture of the country we visit does not understand that kind of dress. Similarly, representatives of any other culture, when arriving in Latvia, have a duty to respect the culture and traditions of the Latvian people. In the words of Professor Gunta Ancane, there are two ideas about whether we should help refugees. And help! However, this must be done wisely, not at the expense of our people or national self-esteem. And that means that we do not have to deviate from our values. When moving to a second group of arguments relating to national internal security, it should be noted that unjustified facial closure, if not restricted, may be a cover for different criminal offences. A person with a covered face shall not be identified by witnesses or by technical means. Such specialities of other cultures can therefore be used for illegal and counter-national purposes. And here we need to take into account both the possibility of certain criminal offences, such as bank robbery, and the activities of various organised groups and terrorists, simply allowing people to hide. A face closure ban is already in place in European countries such as France and Belgium, with a partial ban in a number of other countries, including Great Britain and Italy. Moving to the third group of arguments relating to gender equality, I would like to say that the Western society regards facial cover as an outdated tradition, according to which women cannot enjoy freedom and equality with men. Muslim women are considered to be silent second - class residents in their own countries in the context of religion, who are remote from various activities. It is completely different from Western culture. A woman’s wearing covering material is not determined by Islamic religion; covering her face and body is used to keep women in this second position and warns that if she does not cover herself, she will be raped or abused. It is believed that without concealing her body, women will ask themselves for self - hotning. Although I know that there are certain Members in this Chamber who think that Latvia is still in the dark Middle Ages on gender equality issues, I think that even these Members or Members should admit that even in Latvia, women have the right to determine their dress, dress cut and colour. Men’s clothing is not considered acceptable to a woman. A few more sentences. The representatives of the ruling coalition have said that the first refugees could come to Latvia with the first snow. We are not usually prepared for the first snow at the level of state institutions, so please support this draft law so that such errors do not continue. Thank you. ( Audience of the members of the LRA.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U6	Thank you. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Imants Produknieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U7	(The intermediate of the medicine: “And now for men!” ) Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima and honourable colleagues! In essence, I agree with everything my colleague Inga Bite said, but I would like to point out the clumsy attempt of the Association of the Regions of Latvia to distract attention from the essential to the details. ( From LRA: “Watch the beard! ” ) And I hope that your colleague, Mr Neminina, will find a bright sign for your actions: at the beginning, you have been involved in creating a problem by voting in the European Commission for the reception of additional refugees, but then in a heroic fight against the consequences. So, please, Mr. Kaimiņš, after the bright signs... But I will point to those cases that are directly related to the procedure for adopting such a ban. It is well known that as early as August, the Prime Minister entrusted the task to three ministries, following the call of the President of Latvia to assess the ban on wearing these headgear. It was assigned to three ministries, namely, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with religious organizations, to evaluate this encouragement, the Ministry of the Interior, to evaluate the security aspects of this implementation, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to comply with generally accepted human rights norms in the context of the Council of Europe's human rights practice. And it is planned that an information report will be presented in its government on 30 September, that is, in six days. Then it will also be stated what laws and what changes are needed. What are the drawbacks of this new four - article law? First of all, as my colleague, Mrs Betes, has already pointed out, it is important to set the legitimate objective precisely. In assessing this proportionality, which the European Court of Human Rights has also done in relation to France, it has assessed not only public order and security in its judgment of 1 July 2014 No 43835/11... public order and security aspects, but it is cultural traditions that are the cultural traditions of a particular country. This is not mentioned in the aim of the law, and it is therefore important that we include these norms with specific objectives, which will then provide a justification why this norm is proportionate. And these cultural traditions, as pointed out by Inga Bite, were supported as France's position in the sense of European human rights and derive from the minimum values of an open and democratic society, and they are equality and secularism for women. These objectives must be clearly stated so that we can then justify our position. And then we will also be able to assess in which law and what changes are necessary, so that, when this decision comes to the Saeima, we can make a balanced, arguments-based decision. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Right!” , dep. A.Lejins aplaudes.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U8	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “Law on the Regulation of Personal Face Coverage in Public Sites”, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 8, for - 45. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by Member Dāiņa Liepiņa, Mārtiņš Šics, Nellija Kleinberga, Mārtiņš Bondara and Jānis Rūks be referred to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) No Member has applied to speak. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 10, for - 39. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Mr Aleksandr Kirštein, who requested him to be granted unpaid leave on 17 September this year. The Bureau shall have granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Gundars Dauge to grant him unpaid leave from 21 September to 27 September of this year. The Bureau shall have granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Jānis Tutin to grant him unpaid leave on 24 September of this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Colleagues, the Saeima Presidium has received an application from Member Ata Lejiņa, Vekto Spolišs, Mārtiņš Bondara, Alda Adamovičs and Ojārs Kalniņš to amend the Saeima sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” on the agenda of today’s sitting. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda, the draft decision on the approval of Inese Strelča as a regional court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U9	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 16 September this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Inese Strelča as a judge of the regional court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Inese Strelča to approve him as a judge of the regional court, while at the same time releasing him from office of a judge of the district (city).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U10	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Inese Strelčas as regional court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, a decision has been taken. On the agenda, the draft decision “On the appointment of Noras Pakules as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U11	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 22 September of this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Noras Pakules as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to appoint Noru Pakulis as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U12	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Noras Pakules as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Voting mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda, draft decision on the re-appointment of Marina Romanova as a judge of district (city) court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U13	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 22 September of this year, the draft decision “On the re-appointment of Marina Romanova as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Marina Romanov to re-appoint as a judge of a district (city) court for a term of up to two years.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U14	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the re-appointment of Marina Romanova as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate “Kaktini”, Lēdmane municipality, Lielvarde municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the stage E22 (Tīņgze)-Koknese of the state road”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U15	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate “Kaktini”, Lēdmanes parish, Lielvardes district, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the state road Riga (Tīnze)-Koknese”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to remind my colleagues a little about the process of forced expropriation of certain properties. The specific real estate is necessary for the creation of a adjacent route to eliminate the level of connection, thus implementing the construction project and improving traffic safety, as well as ensuring the internal traffic of the municipality of Lēdmane. So we see clearly that this draft law is necessary to meet the needs of society. It should be noted that already in 2005 (according to the information provided by the Ministry of Transport) letters were sent to the owner of the real estate regarding the need to dispose of specific land parcels for the construction of a nearby road. At first, however, this communication was not successful and often no replies were received to the letters sent. This correspondence continued for several years, and on 3 March 2014 a decision was taken to calculate the amount or value of fair remuneration and also an invitation to attend the meeting of the Commission on 25 April 2014. It should also be noted here that the owner did not participate in this meeting of the Commission. Consequently, without her presence, the commission decided: to approve the remuneration - fair remuneration. Accordingly, on 22 January 2015, forced expropriation procedure was initiated and the law on disposal of the shares of the said property was announced. I would also like to point out that after the said draft law was sent to the Saeima for consideration and started to be examined by the Legal Commission, the Legal Commission had to postpone one sitting and two sittings were not attended by the owner or the owner's representatives. At the same time, when examining the draft law before the third reading, the representative of the owner came to the sitting of the Legal Commission and invited the said situation to be resolved with a possible exchange of property. Taking into account such behaviour of the owner, which in fact took the form of a unwillingness or unwillingness to communicate with the responsible institutions, it can be concluded that it does not contribute to finding solutions in order to avoid forced expropriation. Colleagues! I also draw attention to these facts because I am aware that the Saeima has now received a letter from the authorised representative of the owner, a sworn lawyer, requesting that this issue not be dealt with at the Saeima sitting today, namely, to postpone the examination of this issue and to address this problem of property change. At the same time, however, bearing in mind that the owner's participation, her willingness to participate, has not, as I have already said, been quite active in this process, from the very beginning, which, as I have already mentioned, did not contribute to finding a solution, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to call for this draft law to be seen today. And when I come back to this bill, I point out that, in line with the parliamentary order, the committee did not receive any proposals. Consequently, the Commission looked at the draft law itself and supported the draft law prior to the third reading. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to support the draft law “On the implementation of the reconstruction project of the real estate “Kaktini”, Lēdmanes parish, Lielvardes district, the disposal of parts for public needs – the implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the state road Riga (Tīnze)-Koknesse” in the third, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U16	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate “Kaktini”, Lēdmanes parish, Lielvarde municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the E22 stage of the state road Riga (Tinži)-Koknese”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has therefore been approved at third reading. Colleagues! The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Andrejs Judine, Solvita Āboltiņa, Lolita Čigāne, Kārlis Šadurskis and Edwards Smiltēns to change the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law on amendments to the Asylum Law. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda draft law “On transfer of real estate in Kandava, Liel iela 31”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U17	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, We work with documents No. 396 and No. 1124 - draft law “On transfer of real estate in Kandava, Lielā iela 31”. This is the first of the five draft laws that go into one package, and my report on this first draft law also applies to the next. In order to mitigate the historical unfair consequences of the Holocaust and communist totalitarian regime carried out by the Nazi totalitarian regime for Jewish communities and societies in the territory of the Republic of Latvia, the draft laws examined by the Saeima Foreign Affairs Commission intend to transfer to them free of charge five real estate properties for use in the interests of the Jewish community of Latvia. In June 1940, on the eve of the loss of independence of the Republic of Latvia, more than 90 thousand Jews lived in Latvia. Due to the fact that no anti-Jewish laws were introduced in Latvia, until now, Jewish religious, cultural, educational, economic, artistic, sports and other organizations were very active in Latvia, reflecting the dynamic and full life of the community. In total, the number of different types of Jewish organizations - public and religious - reached more than two hundred in Latvia by 1940. During the Second World War, the occupied territory of Latvia was destroyed by the majority of the Jewish community of Latvia, including about 70 thousand Jewish real estate heirs and successors of Latvian citizens, public and religious organizations, and many real estate could not be recovered through denationalisation. The aim of these draft laws is to provide possible support to Jewish communities and associations of Latvia, as a result of the activities of the Holocaust and communist totalitarian regime by the Jewish community of Latvia, by transferring real estate to the Jewish community of Latvia, which was owned by the Jewish public and religious organisations prior to the Second World War. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia has decided that the Republic of Latvia is not legally responsible for acts of occupation powers in the territory of the Republic of Latvia during its occupation. There is no possibility and no obligation to fully compensate for any loss suffered by individuals as a result of the occupation of power. At the same time, the Constitutional Court has emphasised (I quote): “When renewing the legal system of an independent Latvia, the legislator was obliged to take measures in compliance with the principles of the rule of law in order to equalise, as far as possible, the losses caused by the previous regime and restore justice. However, when choosing land reform funds, the legislator had to strike the right balance between the conflicting interests of the various members of society." And the final quote: ‘Thus, although there is no legal responsibility, the legislator has the right to express his political will and to decide exclusively on measures aimed at mitigating the historical unjust consequences of the Jewish community, which during the Holocaust has been purposefully destroyed by ethnic origin.’ According to the lawyers, such a legislative decision, based on that reasoning, cannot serve as a basis for analogous claims against the State by other groups of the company. Honourable Members! The preamble to the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia also states that “The people of Latvia did not recognise the occupation regimes, resisted them and regained their freedom by restoring state independence on the basis of state continuity on 4 May 1990. It honors its fighters for freedom, mentions the victims of foreign power, condemns the Communist and Nazi totalitarian regimes and their crimes.” In view of both domestic and international resonance, the Foreign Affairs Commission has carefully studied this issue, and has devoted several meetings of the Commission, attended by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, as well as representatives of the Council of Jewish Communities of Latvia and the Society “Shamir”. The Legal Bureau of the Saeima and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with lawyers of other participating countries institutions, have managed to remedy the identified legal shortcomings and achieve a good solution for the editorial improvement of all related draft laws for the second reading. Under this condition, the Foreign Affairs Commission supported the legislative package for consideration in this first, conceptual, reading. Therefore, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I invite the Saeima to support the draft law “On transfer of real estate in Kandava, Liel iela 31”, which will thus confirm the political and good will gesture from the Latvian state, aimed at reducing the historical unfair consequences against the Jewish community of Latvia, while honouring and commemorating the victims of foreign powers. I call for the draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U18	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On transfer of real estate in Kandava, Liel iela 31”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 73, against - 9, refraining from - 1. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U19	Deadline for submission of proposals - 8 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U20	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 8 October this year. On the agenda draft law “On transfer of real estate in Jurmala, Kļavu iela 13”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U21	We work with documents No. 394 and No. 1125 - draft law “On transfer of real estate in Jurmala, Kļavu iela 13”. The Foreign Affairs Commission has supported this and calls on you to support this draft law at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U22	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support of the draft law “On transfer of real estate in Jurmala, Kļavu iela 13” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - 12, for - 4. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U23	October 8th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U24	Thank you. Proposals are due by 8 October of this year. On the agenda draft law “On transfer of real estate in Riga, Abrenes iela 2”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U25	We work with documents No.393 and No.1126 - draft law “On Transfer of Real Estate in Riga, Abrenes iela 2”. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U26	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on transfer of real estate in Riga, Abrenes iela 2! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against -15, refraining from -6. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U27	October 8th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U28	Thank you. Proposals are due by 8 October of this year. On the agenda the first reading of the draft law “On transfer of real estate in Riga, Ernesta Birznieka-Upīša iela 12”. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U29	We work with documents No.392 and No.1127 - draft law “On transfer of real estate in Riga, Ernesta Birznieka-Upīša iela 12”. The Foreign Affairs Commission also examined the draft law and supported it at first reading. I call on the Foreign Affairs Commission to support it in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U30	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U31	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Annotated by the draft law, the draft law was designed to prevent the historical unjust consequences of the Jewish community during the Nazi and Soviet occupation. Is there at least one ethnic group in Latvia and is there at least one nation in Central Europe that would not have had historically unfair consequences as such? Yes, in Latvia, as Mr. Kalniņš said, more than 70,000 people have died. If we look at the more generally, let us say, together with our neighbours, for example, with Poles, then I can tell you that in the occupied part of Poland... The Polish occupied part of Germany killed 6 million Poles and the Soviet occupied part killed 2 million. So 8 million people died. If we are talking about Russians, then it must be said that both civilians and those in the army... In total, some 20 million Russians died. If we talk about the prevention of the unfair consequences of history for Latvians, then in the 20th century in general, Latvia lost, according to calculations by various historians, between 800 thousand and 1 million people, including those emigrated and departed, but in the Second World War approximately 200,000 people died. So can we do something on the basis of such correction of historical injustice? Will we return all public property to the Polish community in Latvia, or will we return all public property to the Russian community? Next. What then do we give this property, which is now in the vocational school? Do we give it to the whole Jewish community? No, we only give this property to one organization! Why not a fund that is established in Lithuania and is strictly controlled by the Ministry of Finance? Because such a fund, despite all promises, has not been created in Latvia! In 2008 the Riga Jewish Religious Church law came into force, Article 2 of which states that Jewish religious communities have not formed a religious union in Latvia, there is no unified organization as such. Are Jews represented by Riga and Latvian Jewish religious congregation and association “Shamir” engaged in the maintenance of the Riga Ghetto Museum and the Latvian Holocaust Museum, for example? No, they're not in this company! So this society, to which you, Mr. Kalniņš, are going to give this school property, which is currently used by the school, has neither contributed any money to the Riga Ghetto Museum, nor has it contributed your knowledge. Who will then manage these properties and who has the right to, say, manage, sell, and who has the right to sign them? It is Mr Suharenko, who is also one of the owners of the West Bank at the same time. And is it enough that he has donated a few lots here? We know that in the former state library building... In the building of the National Library on Krišjāņa Barona Street... The National Library has moved to the new building... has applied... the property from the first... from the Riga Crafts Agency. It has remained completely all owners, heirs, who have claimed this property, but, of course, since in Latvia the law does not provide for the restoration of ownership of public organizations and also those public organisations that represent ethnic groups and nationalities, which have died in millions, the Riga Crafts Crafts Company cannot receive anything. Will we return to Riga Latvian Society the Ķegums power plant based on the prevention of historical consequences if the law does not provide for the return of these properties to the owners of public limited liability companies in Latvia? We know that, at the time of the construction of the Ķegums power plant, there was no International Monetary Fund and, at the request of the President of Latvia, internal securities, state bonds purchased by Latvian citizens, citizens were thus issued. We know that the heirs of the joint stock company “Ķuze” have not got anything and their property, which is “Stburadze”, which was also partly added to the “Laima” factory, has misappropriated... We can also say... quite other people who eat sweets made by this public limited company. Do these people of different nationalities not eat these sweets? Or we're also “Causes”... Maybe we will return “Laima” and “ Staburadzi” (from the vault depot. A.Kamiņš: “They have already been given up!” ) Riga Latvian Society? Now specifically about school. The school is the only vocational school in which you can obtain the specialty of a metal processor, welder also those children who are unable to learn the secondary education programme. So we will be worsening the situation of vocational schools in order to restore justice. In 1996, with the acceptance of the Ministry of Education and Science, the school concluded a contract with SIA Grata, renting 911 square meters. The contract was registered in the Land Register and provided that SIA Grata performs the capital repairs of the building for 110 thousand lats or 157 378 euros and reconstruction for 28 thousand euros. SIA Grata pays a small rent, and at the same time it has rented a modern service hotel in Teika, Vijciemsa street, with a total area of 1058 square meters. So, by subtracting this building from the vocational school, the total loss per month is about 7 thousand euros, which, of course, is not a big money for some, but I think for such a school, 7 thousand euros... they significantly improve its situation. What else is in this building? There is, for example, a private school in Harmony. So we're gonna throw it out, too... Let us restore historical justice: for some, let us take away and give to others. Who's the building? I wonder that the Foreign Affairs Commission has not analysed the situation with this school at all, because you can go and look at the documents. In 1930 its owner Levita Bers transferred the property right to Tora Vderech Erec with a gift agreement. And it was recorded in the book of earth that it can only be for the needs of the teaching institutions. Before the war there was Jewish girls' gymnasium, but a few years ago, a housewife living in Israel visited Riga who, along with the rabbi, visited the school. She was very pleased that she had a vocational school in this school. A protocol approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Latvia was signed. It records that the property in which the 3rd Arodskola of Riga is now located must be preserved under the control of the Ministry of Education, Science and Science - for the needs of the 3rd Arodskola of Riga. So with what right do we now want to eliminate all this and restore some mystical historical justice, making it worse for the vocational school in which Jews, Poles, Lithuanians, Latvians, Russians? All those who have suffered a certain degree of historical suffering, too. Do we have a law about a chosen nation here that we will specifically accept, throw them all out and then return them to one group? I don't know... I strongly call on you not to support such a law and not to worsen the only vocational schools in Latvia - note, the only professional vocational schools! - which can teach children who cannot get education elsewhere, because they cannot complete high school, the situation. Thank you. And I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U32	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U33	Yeah, I just wanted to know. First of all, a fund. During the meeting with the Jewish community at the Foreign Affairs Commission, we were told that when the draft laws were adopted (Victims of Members A. Buiķis, I.Ribena, J.Kursīte-Pakules). , when the Fund will also be set up in the hope of international representatives and when the Fund’s funds will be available to all organisations, including “Shamir”... Even for non-Jewish organisations to finance projects that would benefit the Jewish community, the Foreign Commission had no reason to question this promise from the Jewish community. In fact, the Bible says: “He that is walking in the way of the earth will certainly be the one that is walking in the way of the earth. ” — Depp. J.Dombrava and others Inter-sentences of The second question is the professional school of Ernest Birznieka-Upīšas iela. We received an opinion from the Ministry of Education and Science, who believed that it had no objection to the return of this property to the Jewish community, and it is mentioned that it is being conducted in this building... Well, there are economic works in this vocational school, but the revenue generated does not affect the amount of the institution's funding from the state budget. If the state's real estate is disposed of, there will be no loss of such additional income for the 3rd period of Riga. Consequently, the Ministry of Education and Science did not oppose the transfer of this property. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kiršteins from the hall: “The school did not object either?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ") And so on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for this draft law at first, conceptual, reading. ( From the drug depot. A.Kiršteins: “School objected!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U34	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On transfer of real estate in Riga, Ernesta Birznieka-Upīša iela 12! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 47, for - 27, for - 4 The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U35	October 8th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U36	Thank you. Proposals are due by 8 October of this year. On the agenda next is the draft law “On transfer of real estate in Riga, 25 Ludzas iela”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U37	We work with documents No. 397 and No. 1128 - draft law “On transfer of real estate in Riga, Ludzas iela 25”. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined and supported this draft law and on behalf of the Commission I call on the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U38	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on transfer of real estate in Riga, Ludza iela 25! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 17, for - 4. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U39	October 8th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U40	Thank you. Proposals are due by 8 October of this year. The next on the agenda is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Organization “Riga Jewish Community””, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U41	We work with documents Nos 395 and 1129. At the same time as the newly supported draft laws, which provide for the transfer of property for use in the interests of the Jewish community of Latvia, the Foreign Commission supported the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Organization “Riga Jewish Community”” on the basis of the above justification. This amendment provides for real estate in Riga, Skolas iela 6, which is already owned by the association Riga Jewish Community, to remove previously established burdens on this real estate. The Foreign Affairs Commission supported this draft law, and on behalf of the Commission, I also call for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U42	Thank you. Colleagues! The debate will continue after the break. It is now time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! And the results of the registration will be prepared immediately... Name of Secretary of the Saeima Gunārs Kūtris to read the results.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U43	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Inga Bite ( From the medicine: “Ir!” ), Gundar Dauge, Sergey Dolgopolov, Rihards Egim ( From the drug: “Ir!” ), Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Ainars Latkovskis, Atis Lejiņš ( From the dep. A. Leiiņš: “I am!” ), Aleksejs Loskutovs, Romanas Naudiņš, Sergejs Potapkins and Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U44	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U45	Colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting. On the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Organization “Riga Jewish Community””. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U46	Dear President, Honourable Members! There is some contradiction with this draft law, because we have just heard that the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission promised that after the adoption of the law there would be a fund. So a fund like the one in Lithuania - which is strictly controlled by the Ministry of Finance and which checks how the property is used and cannot be sold, disposed of, given and so on, because it must serve the common good. I was at the time one of those who voted in favour of transferring this property directly to the Jewish community, and these burdens were put in precisely for the reason that there is no temptation to either pledge or sell the property or... Then there was no community as it was now - the Councils of the Jewish Communities, but somewhere in the subconscious of the idea that property could be in the hands of one group in the future and that any illegal activities with this property might take place. So why remove the burden? Very simple - so that the property can either be sold or given, pledged... in words, so that you can make the rest. Who's going to sell? Will the Jews or one organization be sold? Now it is possible for different organizations to sell this property. No, no! The person entitled to sign will be sold. And then who has the right to sign? The right to sign shall lie with the President of the Community, Mr Suharenko. Will this benefit other Jewish organizations? How did I say, for example, to the Geto Museum or the Shamir Society? Of course not! Because other Jewish organizations are not members of that organization. Can we entrust the person who has the right to sign to market these properties in some way - specifically to Mr Suharenko? It's a very interesting person. He has not considered it necessary to learn or speak Latvian here. Upon arriving from the former Soviet Union, this gentleman stands out for an amazing shame. We could call him the co-runner of the Soviet occupation. Why? Because I have a letter here sent by that gentleman to President Bērziņš of Latvia. And he writes that there is an extremely ugly monument built for Bauska defenders. The monument, as can be seen here in photography, is marked with “Bauska defenders against the occupation of secondary Soviets”. So Mr. Suharenko writes to the President of Latvia that a monument has been built in Bauska, here, which has been called... The Prizvanny žerizirovatj - called for praise - Nazi supporters, and I have no doubt on which is the side of the Bauska leadership's sympathy, whose position we condemn." But that would be nothing yet, because everyone has the right to express their opinion. But later the blackmail of the Latvian state begins. So the said gentleman blackmails and writes openly: “We will not hide these conclusions and opinions from the international community and international Jewish organisations. Such an inscription against the occupation of secondary Soviets is the same as that of Judenfrei.” So, you see, students, farmers, guards - because there were no regular troops who defended Bauska against the occupation of secondary Soviets, murders, rapes, robbery - are called Nazi supporters. So a man with such thinking, who has been sued, by the way, in the court for fraud, the entire organization... The “Shamir” Society has sued the Council of these Jewish congregations and communities for fraud, and we do not yet know the outcome of the trial. Can we give to one of the parties, without knowing this court judgment, some financial machinations property that has been transferred to the Jews of Latvia as a whole and not just to the use of this single organization? That is why I think we should expect a court ruling and give it back to an organisation that deserves it more and which would perhaps have handled these properties more fairly. I call for no support. Thank you. ( Ambitious by the VL-TB/LNNK Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U47	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U48	Yeah. I just want to remind you once again that the Foreign Affairs Commission had no reason to believe that the Council of Jewish Communities of Latvia would not act in favour of the Jewish community throughout Latvia, and therefore burdens only on the most efficient use of the properties in the interests of the community. ( From the drug depot. I.Ryban's transcripts, dep. J.Dombrava: ‘Mr Kalniņš, on behalf of the Commission!’ ) And so again, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for the draft law at first, conceptual, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Organization “Riga Jewish Community” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 21, for - 7. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U50	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 8 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U51	Thank you. Proposals are due by 8 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U53	The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U54	Dear colleagues, In taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty Currently, the recruitment and selection function of the Ministry of Defence has been divided between the recruitment and youth centre and the National Armed Forces Training Management Command Selection and Spare Personnel Accounting Centre. In order to ensure greater efficiency of the recruitment and selection system and to avoid fragmentation of closely related tasks and resources between two institutions, it is necessary to transfer all activities related to the organisation of the recruitment and selection process under the responsibility of one institution, the Training Command of the National Armed Forces. At the same time, it is necessary to change the name of the Translation and New Member State Centre. National armed forces will fully take over the recruitment function on 1 January 2016. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U56	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 29 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U57	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 29 September this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U58	Hello, dear colleagues! We have been given such very important amendments to the Law on the movement of alcoholic beverages, which, in essence, involves reducing the administrative burden on small producers of alcohol, i.e. domestic producers. In essence, they are intended to facilitate the conditions for their retail sale. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “It’s over!” ) The commission responsible examined the draft law and invited Members to support it at first reading. ( From the drug depot. A. Berzins: One smart proposal! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U60	October 8th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U61	Thank you. Proposals are due by 8 October of this year. On the agenda next is the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U62	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” and decided not to support these amendments for the following reasons. The draft law provides for extension of the right of representation for cassation instance, however, it was established in the committee during discussions that the Ministry of Justice is currently working on the concept of representation both in cassation instance and in appeal instance. Therefore, this issue should be seen in conjunction with this possible concept, which, by the way, was also notified to the Commission for the Policy of the Court of Justice. At the same time, with regard to the other proposed amendments, the Commission decided that, in the event of non-approval of those amendments, the Commission would submit its proposals, so that the amendments relating to the examination of certain categories of cases in written proceedings would be made as a result of its proposals. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission, the request does not support that draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U63	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law is not supported. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Seekers, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Hosams Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U64	Hello, we are working on the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Job Seekers". The Commission received six proposals. 1. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U66	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Janis Dūklavs, in place of the Minister for Welfare. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U68	3. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Janis Dūklavs, in place of the Minister for Welfare. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U70	4. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Janis Dūklavs, in place of the Minister for Welfare. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U72	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Janis Dūklavs, in place of the Minister for Welfare. It was supported and included 6. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U73	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U74	And six. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U76	On behalf of the Commission, I therefore ask for your support for the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U77	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U78	October 23rd.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U79	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 23 October this year. Thank you. On the agenda, Draft Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U80	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima, honourable colleagues! See the draft law on annual accounts and consolidated annual accounts at second reading. The Commission has received 70 proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U82	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U84	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U86	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U88	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U90	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U92	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U94	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U96	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U98	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U100	11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U101	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U102	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U104	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U106	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U108	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U110	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U112	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U114	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U115	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U116	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U118	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U120	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U122	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U124	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U126	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U127	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U128	25. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U130	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U132	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U134	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U136	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U138	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U140	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U142	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U144	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U146	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U148	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U150	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U151	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U152	37. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U154	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U156	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U158	40. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U160	41. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U162	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U164	43. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U166	44. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U168	45. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U170	46. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U172	47. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U174	48. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U176	49. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U178	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U180	51. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U182	52. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U184	53. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U186	54. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U188	55. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U190	56. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U192	57. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U194	58. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U196	59. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U198	60. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U200	61. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U202	62. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U204	63. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U206	64. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U208	65. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U210	66. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U212	67. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U214	68. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U216	69. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U217	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U218	70. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U220	We have therefore examined all 70 proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U221	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on annual accounts and consolidated annual accounts! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U222	The deadline for submitting proposals is 8 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U223	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 8 October this year. The next item on the agenda is the draft law “Amendment to the Asylum Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U224	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Saeima on 10 September, the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Asylum” was passed to the committee, which defined the competence of the Saeima on asylum issues. The draft law submitted by Members was examined at the meeting of the Commission on 16 September. The committee was invited to the sitting by the applicants, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, and the committee had a vote after a long debate: for -3, not -no, abstain - 3. One Member did not vote. Under the parliamentary roll of order, a vote was taken and the committee voted in the same way. So 3 - for, against - no, abstain - 3. One Member did not vote. And in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Commission did not support moving the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Asylum” to the Saeima for the first reading. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovics: “Falsely organized work!” ) I call on the Saeima to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U225	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U226	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Let me quote. ‘ This important decision, with a long-standing international commitment, will fundamentally change the country's further development, affecting both its national composition, its budget and its economy. This would be the first case in which Latvia would agree to massive reception of refugees who have not directly applied for assistance to the State of Latvia. This decision can lead to the exodus of the basement in catastrophic proportions! This in turn will mean losing Latvian identity. When taking a decision, the Cabinet of Ministers had to take into account the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. The Cabinet has not assessed the risks that this decision and the resulting international obligations of Latvia and the actions to implement them can create in relation to the promotion of the well-being of the Latvian people. The Cabinet of Ministers has failed to take into account Article 1 of the Satversme when deciding on the planned reception of refugees and asylum seekers in Latvia without the consent of the Saeima to the admission of such important international commitments.” End of quote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins from the hall: “Who said it?” ) At this point, I would like the light to win the darkness so that the good is superior to the evil, but the Members - Raivis Dzintars, Rihards Kols, Imants Raudnieks, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Kārlis Krēsliņš, who are authors of this line of annotation... (The Hall of Noise) and who have taken the Member’s oath to respect the Constitution, have not written in this statement: “Stop with the Cabinet of Ministers!” ( From the drug: “Ooo! Ooh! Ooo!’ ‘Ah! Aah!’ ) “Stop with the betrayers of the people! Get off with the Cangars!” More! Even more, colleagues! At the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 6 July, Dace Melbārde - the Minister for Culture - has placed these fundamental words on behalf of the National Alliance for History so that we all know what the National Alliance's position on the issue of the reception of refugees is. And these are (I would like to quote the position of the National Association, which has been written by Dace Melbārde, the Minister for Culture from the National Association): "At the same time, I would like to welcome the strong position of the Latvian Government on establishing the refugee quota." ( The drug is noise. Sub-words: ‘Ai, ai, ai!’ ; dep. R.Kols: “Stop mixing the air!” ) Lords! I fully agree with you that the Cabinet of Ministers is unable to defend Latvia's interests abroad. ( From the drug depot. R.Dzintara and I.Sponsor’s intersences.) I fully agree with you that the Cabinet of Ministers is unable to assess risks and prevent them from receiving refugees. I fully agree that the Cabinet is unable to organise this work. But listen! Why change legislation, remove work from the Cabinet of Ministers and transfer it to Saeima? Then it is better to change the entire Cabinet of Ministers! ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Malakis!” ) Thank you. ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U227	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky. ( Medications.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U228	Oh, yeah. ( From the drug depot. A.Latkovsky: “Sarauc eyebrow!” ) Dear Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) What I want to say is that I think you will not like one or the other, nor the third or the fourth, but you will have to agree. I call on you to look at the substance of this draft law and, if there are formal objections, then... If there are formal shortcomings, they should be rectified; they were also pointed out by the Legal Office to the Commission. If we have the opportunity in our daily concerns to lift our head across all those intrigues and theatres, then we see that the migration crisis, of course, has profound global causes, and from a higher point of view, we see that Europe itself is, in fact, such a boat of refugees in the huge, global ocean of chaos - and where we are still talking about Latvia! - because we see that the world consumes huge amounts of resources, much more than it can restore; we see huge disproportions in the demographic situation, huge differences in prosperity and mental development. Of course, we are not talking about this, and it seems: well, what we're going to be up here so much if we have to deal with these politically intriguing things! But unfortunately, we are too dependent on each other in today's world to survive. And if anyone extends it to the whole world, then I will apply it to Latvia, regardless of how we like each other or how we like each other. And, from the point of view of nation's survival and development, it is not important who will win here, who will negotiate, but whether we will be able to cooperate and negotiate. Or how boring and uninteresting it may sound, but our question really depends on whether the wise one will be able to talk to the fools that they consider as such, or whether the honest one will be able to talk to the wicked, the bad ones that they regard as such. And unfortunately, any of our disputes on migration issues at the moment show this level of our limited discussion. And it has two features that you will even recognize here. One feature is horrendous stories and intimidation from both sides, demonstration of your position and only strengthening, and origin, and absolute caricing and hacking of the opponent's position. Second. We mentioned that the opposite side actually has some hidden intentions linked to the political situation, and they do not want to solve the problem at all. I will say, this, second, is not just without reason, but keeping on the same sort of accusations, the kind of debate that will not lead us anywhere, our policy will never go beyond that level to identify and address these problems, which are essentially global. Last night, our group of Members had a meeting with Bernara Sorde, a French scientist, a philosopher. He has been working for high-ranking global financial companies, including the European Commission. Maybe many in Latvia know and remember him. And in any case, this man is something diametrically opposite of a provincial conservative nationalist (may now be accused of, say, migration... To the opponents of the European migration policy). He is rather a liberal of global cosmopolitan thinking. And why did I call Mr. Sorde? By this I call for it to be understood that, also against Europe's current specific policy, a critical person can be a true European, with empathy against the suffering of those who are being persecuted. And Sorde talks about a positive migration of cultural and creative freedom in the future, but this, which is now taking place in Europe, is fully in line with what he has described as excess migration, which, in his view, also serves the interests of global corporations and smugglers, until finally comes out completely of any, any... any controls. I quote: “People are being prepared for the fate of slaves, mercenaries, migrants. In developing countries, this trend is so strong that it is already threatening the unity of the nation. Modern immigration quotas do not come from integrity, but from the need to maintain economic growth by any means, even if we risk introducing austerity measures and internal devaluation." What is important to us in Latvia to respond to this perfect global chaos? First of all, it is the ability to communicate with one another, no matter how much we do not like each other, no matter how we want to stand up against each other. There is no other way out! And the second is really the ability to talk with Europe in a powerful way. Not passively take chaotic interim solutions, but talk and be heard. This may in part be a reminder of the discussions that have taken place here in the Saeima about the President of Latvia we need. We need the ability to seriously address Mr Juncker, who is always in a happy mind... to speak seriously. We need the power of Mogherini, this wise and rational lady, to make our interests understand and respect, too, and we must also have someone or someone who, when Mrs Merkel says a more harsh word, would not just cry. So far, the government has taken its narrow sense of responsibility initiative in its relations with Europe. And if we are talking, yes, about the Cabinet of Ministers, about the government, then we have to admit that the government's initiative - at least so far! - does not give too adequate impression of understanding the situation and also the ability to explain it. First of all, there was the argument that we needed to quickly accept these 250 in order to prevent the disaster, otherwise we will have 700 or more imposed, and that will be something tragic. At the moment, we, which at least manage the situation, know that this is not the final number either, because we know how much per hour. (Reply to S.A.) ... how many migrants enter Europe every hour. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs with its sadly famous intimidating statement... Well, with that, I think they are landing to this stage of crowd discussion. And here's the question. Well, let us not criticise and blame the government, because there is a total chaos on the part of Europe, but there is still a question: why should the government be subject to this decision to become the only sin. And it will be very beneficial to the opponents. What I will say may not like for others: it is very convenient, irresponsiblely trampled on and trap the government, and it will also be for what, because there is now a lot of chaos and ignorance in European politics, but who will be held accountable in a narrow circle, it will have to imagine that we also know and manage the situation, to which we are pressing now the government and its working groups. On the other hand, if the Saeima takes shared responsibility, then even the most radical opponents of the reception of migrants will be forced to take responsibility anyway - in any case! - either that we are a country and a nation that does not want to help anyone and does not fully show solidarity with Europe, either that we accept what we cannot carry and that we only multiply the chaos of disintegration in Latvia and Europe. In my view, there might also be... if there is cooperation, then also the optimal solutions: at the beginning of receiving perhaps a very small number of true refugees - 20 to 30 - and then within half a year we would see what it means in practice. Today we are screaming at the table, and most of them have not seen refugees in the vicinity. We do not know what we are talking about, who they are going to be - will they, from one extreme point of view, be the sacred victims who have already studied Rainis and are scientists, will they be the blandons and clowns of the world, as the second extreme says? And when we have seen it in practice, then we can also talk constructively to Europe about the compatibility of migration quotas with integration. Of course, this requires cooperation and this new thinking, which you will say sounds so noble, but in practice we are far from it. And many will say, “Well, these will not be those who are able to think and work together!” Well, maybe yes! I don't have any guarantees. But if we stay on this argument, there is no chance of getting out of the deadlock that we are in and just going deeper inside. For taking the burden on one narrow circle - this inevitably means, in the most likely or distant future, also hopelessly collapse under it and do nothing good for Latvia at the same time. I'm not afraid of you, I'm not afraid of you. I call on you to support this. ( A fluctuating from the VL-TB/LNNK fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U229	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U230	Dear Saeima! I understand that in the “dog bed” of the Latvian Regions, the Association of Regions is ready to go against the reception of refugees (From the dep. A.Kamiņš: “Speak! Speak!” ), but then suddenly, the opinion changes as quickly as Prime Minister Straujuma's opinion that suddenly it is necessary to accept. But the question is, How much to accept? 250? 726? 531? Here, every month, government members campaign for another number, unable to make it clear how many hundred or thousands of immigrants it will require to be admitted in the coming years. It should be noted that this is a new precedent that Latvia should take massively asylum seekers who have not directly sought asylum from the country of Latvia. In the memory of the population, mass migration during the Soviet occupation, which forced the Baltic States to receive more than a million migrants - both military and civilian - has become a great issue. After the restoration of Latvia's independence, European countries did not help Latvia to solve this problem in a spirit of solidarity. Even today, Latvia has not fully overcome the consequences of occupation, with the result that Latvia has the lowest share of the base nation among all the countries of the European Union. Latvia's reception opportunities for new migrants have been exhausted. The question of the admission of new migrants must be decided by the parliament, the elected representative of the government and of the will. This would be worth considering even if a decision on such matters would have to be taken by a popular vote in order to also obtain an additional mandate for further negotiations within the European Union. However, the government should not decide on such important issues, especially after recent events, when certain members of the Cabinet of Ministers have lied cynically and broken promises to society and parliament. In particular, I would like to highlight the public statement made by the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Foreign Affairs a few days ago that Latvia is the only country that did not agree with Juncker's offer of receiving refugees. And here suddenly a few days ago, a number of countries - Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary - are voting against. Finland abstains from voting in favour of Juncker's proposal. And I don't even want to comment on the nightmares of the former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence and the existing Minister of Foreign Affairs. J.Urbanovičs and A.Elksniņš laughter.) who questioned the collective security of NATO if Latvia does not accept refugees. Dear Saeima! I call for support for the amendments to the Asylum Law in order to return the decision to the hands of a directly elected parliament. I trust that the Saeima will be more accountable to this issue, because the Saeima Members bear responsibility in front of Latvian citizens. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “On the government is not a word!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U231	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U232	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! There may perhaps be different views on whether and how Latvia should have participated in these solidarity mechanisms, and I might have added to the view that Latvia should have been there to some extent. And just as it is very important how... All right, the decision has been made on these 700. Whether it's right or not - it's probably going to show up in history. But at the moment, it is essential that we, like the Estonians, who have really gone far further in this preparatory phase, are able to select people who are really refugees and people who can better integrate into our cultural space, such as Christians. But at this moment it is a decision already made, and the new law, if it is adopted, can no longer change it. But Latvia's capacity - and I think you will agree with me - is however limited. In this situation, we do not know where the next quota will come from, and I think that if we have not coped with these - and that will take longer! - then take responsibility for the next quota - it would probably be rather hasty. And in the European Union, too, I have participated in various councils, a court, perhaps in other areas, but Parliament's decision and Parliament's opinion have a very important role to play in the Member States' calculations. And that is why the Minister, who is going to defend a position if he has a parliamentary view, certainly understands all of this that nothing can be changed here, and so he is less subject to this pressure. And that's the question of what the new law in this case is about. So it doesn't cancel... Whether it is good or bad, there will probably be different views on it. It does not cancel the previous quota, but it means that the next quota will still be more difficult for us to play. And even if you may even have justified objections to the annotation, I think, however, to be "no" to this essence... Well, it's just wrong. And, of course, if some moment comes when Latvia sees that it has finished and the majority in Parliament agrees that we can integrate something else, then, of course, this could be the case. But it'll probably be in many years' time. We cannot do that at the moment. Therefore, like Ilmārs Latkovskis, I call on you not to try to use this to just create your own internal policy against each other and to show you who is good, who is bad. And in the end, everyone is bad, because there's no result! But I think that such a decision would simply be in Latvia's interest, and that is why I call on you to support it. Thank you. ( A fluctuating from the VL-TB/LNNK fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U233	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. ( Deputy K. Šadurskis from the hall: “ Aleksandr, don’t worry! They won’t be Jews!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U234	I like them! It might be... Dear President, Honourable Members! Data on the attitude of Latvian society towards refugees were published today, and 72 percent of Latvians and 60 percent... 65 percent of Gentiles oppose any Islamisation of Latvia or reception of refugees. And the reason is that Latvia has not owned colonies and is not responsible for the chaos created by major powers, for example, in the former colonies of African countries and elsewhere in the world. I agree to some extent with Mr Bondara on the issue of the government, but with one small objection. I think that the government as a whole is working well and we see a lot of good ministers. I actually only have an objection to one: I have an objection to the Foreign Minister, who is simply a bad deed or a lie. And I think that Unity will solve this problem internally in some way. And how do these lies manifest themselves? It has already been mentioned that, in an extremely dire situation, the Deputy Commander General Bradshaw, who had to justify that the issue of refugees has nothing to do with Article 5 of the NATO Agreement, was put in place. But by demonstrating its intellectual potential, the Latvian Foreign Minister announced such an extremely interesting idea. He had not noticed that the airspace was patrolled by Hungarian aircraft and said that it would be stopped if Latvia did not comply with this refugee quota, but because Latvia had taken responsibility for 250 refugees, then... This means that from Šiauliai the destroyers rise, arrive in Latvia, fly across Latgale, find that the next 500 refugees have not been admitted, and therefore fly back or along the sea to Estonia. ( From the drug depot. (Reply to S.A.) Thus, the Latvian Foreign Minister has such a move. This foreign minister is unable to support and explain to the government why we do not support not only the position of the Visegrad countries, which is very reasonable, but also the position of the friendly Finland, which abstained from voting on these refugees. And we know that yesterday, the Finnish Foreign Minister expressed extremely strong criticism of the Swedish policy on refugees. Can we not decide, either, in this case? Are we worse than the Finns? ( From the drug depot. V.Spolish’s reply: “Finland has a very different... “ Yes, thank you for that. Next. Today we are reading that the German Chancellor Merkel has announced that the Syrian crisis can only be resolved by working with the current Syrian Government and President Bashar Al-Assad. Similarly, the US Secretary of State has said that it is now necessary to stop talking about the immediate withdrawal of the current Syrian President, to resolve the Syrian crisis and then start negotiations on its future. Latvia is positioned in a stupid position, thanks to our Foreign Minister. Do Members know that Latvia does not support the Syrian Government at all as such? We can't even be there, and we don't have anything to talk to. Because with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Latvia supported a diplomatically some mystic government whose existence and location is not known at all. So we are excluded from any negotiation process, because if we do not already recognise the existing Syrian government, we cannot take part in this resolution either. So we have the role of the gear shown. What we're leaving... or we leave that 250 or we leave that 500 or... As the Americans have just said, the total number of refugees could increase to 9 million, which could be between 20 and 40 thousand. We only swallow everything and cooperate with everyone. I understand that 72 percent of Latvians, or two thirds of Latvian citizens, are absolutely not interested in governments, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it sees itself as superior. As you say, there are other priorities for our Foreign Minister, as we know, and so I would advise him to look for another people, because this people is extremely dissatisfied with the work of this minister. And if Juncker... If, for example, the President of the European Commission Juncker can go to the European Parliament and give detailed reasons for every action to be done, and then there is a debate, where Latvian parliamentarians can speak, then the question is: why should the Latvian Saeima not discuss these issues in every way, so that the series, the series of foolish things that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing would come to an end once? I therefore call for support. Thank you for your attention. ( A fluctuating from the VL-TB/LNNK fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U235	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U236	Ladies and gentlemen, we are very well aware that the National Alliance has tabled these amendments in the form of respect for refugees, with the intention that they will be rejected by a majority today. We will not help the National Association in the implementation of this intention and will vote in favour of the first reading amendment of the draft law on asylum. But there are, of course, other reasons that are more important. We know that the government agrees to accept refugees, and this decision was taken without consultation with the general public, without consultation in Parliamentary sittings and without the acceptance of the Saeima, the elected representatives of the Latvian people. I am convinced that this level of decision-making should not be based solely on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. This issue must be discussed at the sittings of the Saeima and must be adopted by the Saeima voting. As a result, it will contribute to strengthening parliamentaryism by deciding on matters of major importance to society. In the context of this draft law, we want to hear a concrete, fair and pragmatic explanation from the government on many issues related to the process of receiving refugees in Latvia: how will their integration and language training be implemented? Where will they be accommodated? How much will it cost to each Latvian taxpayer? As a result of the activities of the Cabinet, supported by the National Association, there is no longer any discussion about this - whether to accept or not to accept refugees, because the government has already taken all conceptual decisions. The most important thing now is how the process of receiving refugees will be organised. The Cabinet, on the other hand, simply avoids informing the public about this, and this may indicate that the government has no idea about these issues or - on the contrary! - the planned action is known but shameful. Therefore, it is very important that all 100 members of the Saeima who have a mandate from the Latvian people decide on these issues. I believe that Parliament is the right place for such a debate, and I am in favour of this debate. However, it should also be borne in mind that this topic concerns the people of Latvia and even shocks a certain part of society. We respect this view. The government, in turn, still does not know the public there about the existence or absence of a plan for the integration of asylum seekers, thus creating various fears for our citizens. It is therefore very important that these issues are decided by all 100 representatives of the people, who clearly have a closer connection with the voters than government ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U237	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U238	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the debate, I understand that the National Association is about to call for the resignation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the near future. A.Kamiņš: “It was the debtor, the debtor!” ), and I hope that we will be able to debate this at the next sittings of the Saeima. But now let's go back to the specific draft law. A moment ago, someone in this troupe said something about legislation and the quality of justification. ( The drug is getting more noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Then I would like to read this draft law, which we are talking about here: “The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia takes decisions on all issues relating to the resettlement of refugees and asylum seekers to Latvia from other Member States or from third countries, as well as on issues relating to them, directly or indirectly.” The number, as I understand, is still being discussed, but let us assume that we are talking about around 500 people. Thus, according to this bill, the Saeima should decide on any matter directly or indirectly linked to these people; for example, each person's demand will have to be considered... Thus, an asylum seeker’s application, according to which he or she will have to grant refugee or alternative status or refuse... ( The grass has increased in noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U239	One second, Mrs. Bites! ( Slaughter with a hammer.) Colleagues, you've got a lot of good in your conversations!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U240	... whether this status should be refused. So - 500 “with tail” Saeima decision on these issues. Next. Every refugee will have to learn the national language. There has been talk of an integration programme for each individual refugee - 500 "astatu" by the Saeima decision. Other issues, perhaps related to health or otherwise, are once again several hundred decisions of the Saeima. Well, I don't think it'd be reasonable! It should therefore be noted that this offer has not been fully developed either. Colleagues! Instead of this project, I would like to support and move forward without delay with the voter Mārtiņš Bondara's much more qualitative proposal on this subject, in which he calls on the government to put forward as guidelines all these issues of interest to the Saeima and then, with a single decision on the approval of planning documents, to come here to the Saeima and to debate in the Saeima on all issues directly or indirectly linked to the reception of refugees. Thank you. ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U241	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U242	Dear Bureau! Dear Members and honourable Members, It seems to me that this time for Europe is too heavy and dangerous for us to dwell here with words such as "cynic lies" and so on. I think that our ministers are guided by the best conscience, precisely because we have a great deal of resolve. And I'll tell you why. After the Cold War, Europe's order has been destroyed. It is because one large neighbouring country - Russia - just broke into Ukraine and took one part. We no longer have the order to which we are accustomed. We need to be aware of this! It's just something unprecedented... And here our situation is starting to be like that before the Second World War. Please take it very seriously. We are also responsible for this. The other thing, of course, is the threats and risks that come from the south. Well, of course, here can also be blamed for the whole of Europe, that it has not previously been involved in tackling the causes of the Syrian civil war itself, and that is true. And I would like to stress that here the east is closely connected with the south: they cannot be separated from each other. What's happening now with... Its refugee flows from the south can also come from the east. Anytime! I will give you one example. You think that it would be difficult for Russia to organise refugee flows to Latvia from the east? And now this limit will finally be strengthened. Why attack the government if Laimdota Straujuma makes such a decision? We have spoken about this, even last Wednesday, with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and he accepted it completely. Of course, we also got... was mentioned now in Merkel... Yes, about Syria and about Asad... But... I am not saying that everyone should be security experts, but these signs were already visible about a month or two months ago, when Turkey requested a security sector in Syria, where refugees from Turkey can return. To defend them... They're in war. It was already inside this so-called... We are already working on a peace plan. Like Asad... No, I'm sorry! Let's see more nuanced! Assad has a transitional period in coalitions... new coalitions in the government of Syria. Cameron said that a month ago! That's what Carrie said last week, and that's what Merkel says now, yes. Of course, it is a transitional period to save his face, his reputation. And that's why Russia is also coming in to put his position in a new order. So that now, finally, Turkey, all the other countries, the European Union, America understands that a solution is needed for the cause itself in Syria, and this will obviously happen. I can remind you that Syria is taking part in supporting now the fight against ISIS - yes, the fight against ISIS! - American latest planes that are not visible in the air at all. So that's a very serious thing. And I think that it is finally forgotten what the European Union is doing with its warships. They are now in international waters, trying to prevent these flows of refugees. And there is also a centre in Nigeria, where refugees, who are actually economic refugees, are sent back to North Africa, where they will also be filtered. Please! So let us be more nuanced and do not attack so terrifyingly that we have done things better. Our government acted with the best conscience, remembering what happened to us in 1939 and 1940, and so far we have made the right decisions, because no one in Europe can blame us for being away from a common European problem. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciated. From the drug depot. A.Kiršteins: “You are “for” or “to”? You didn’t say “for” or “for”!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U243	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U244	Dear colleagues, Listening to Mrs Bite's speech, I think I will not speak anymore, because I think she made it clear that this draft law has legal shortcomings, that its quality is low. But I also heard Mrs Bite's speech respond to Mr. Cole's speech. I understood that, unfortunately, not all my colleagues are clear about its legal problem and what it is proposed to amend this law. I am referring specifically to the proposal and not to the political background! But what is written in this bill? Here it is planned that the Saeima must decide on all issues related to the transfer of persons... Please listen and read! Perhaps not everyone has really paid attention to this. ( From the drug depot. J.Dombrava’s intermediate names.) And that's... I'll... I understand that colleagues want to talk, but there is also an opportunity to push the button and do it. That is why I will continue. The draft law provides that all decisions on all issues relating to the resettlement of refugees as well as on matters relating directly or indirectly to them shall be taken by the Saeima. What does that mean? This means that we need to decide not only how much can be moved, but also directly and indirectly. Thus, as Mrs Betes has already said, questions about education, questions about health, questions about how to feed those people should be decided by the Saeima! I understand that some people may not really want to solve the problems that are topical for Latvia, but they want to sit every day and talk about what breakfast will be for those people and what dinner will be. In my opinion, the Saeima has other tasks. And I understand that there is also a continuation where it is written that everything we do not want to decide should be delegated to the government. Yes, we can do that, but we may begin by thinking about the content! In my opinion, the Saeima must work actively on these issues. ( From the drug depot. J.Dombrava’s intermediate names.) That is something I definitely support! And I very much hope that Mr Dombrava, who is speaking at the same time instead of opening his ears and listening, will ever understand that. But at the moment, I think it is important to also focus on the content. Unfortunately, I cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U245	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U246	Hello, colleagues! I decided to speak because I was embarrassed by the situation I was in. I feel like an absurd theatre! And I feel absolutely at risk because what we're doing is, in fact, extortion after the slaughter. All these negotiations and all these debates should have taken place already in spring - at the end of the spring part-session. When Members had signed up to this request - to deal with this issue in the Saeima by inviting the Prime Minister - and to talk about all these issues. Then we should have opened up this debate and it takes place very thoroughly, and take a very small part then, and not now to shout the fist... after everything has already happened. I find it embarrassing that our government has decided to act on behalf of Latvia in a situation that is so deep and essential, and for very long years will affect the existence and development of our nation. Why did we not look at what the Greek Government did, how did Cyprus do on this issue, which hit the Greeks so much and significantly? He did not dare to make a decision himself, on the one hand, and, on the other, he did not make a decision himself, so he needed the consent of the people and the support of the people... ( Medications.) ... popular support for our relations with the European Union. Latvia also has the same situation. Firstly, I believe that our government was completely wrong, not allowing the Saeima to engage in this process, and secondly, the first thing to do was to ask the people what the people were thinking about it. Why are we so presumptuous and arrogant servants of the people that we think that we know better than people what they need and how they feel about it? ( From the unitary group of the medicine, the inter-speakers.) The survey shows that 70 percent of our country’s population is opposed to receiving refugees, and only 18 percent are in favour. You deceive people by telling them about solidarity and different things here, but not to mention what kind of problem these people will encounter, and that we are not ready for it. All these infections that will come in (From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “What infections?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ All these terrorists, all these problems that will come in. And we don't have to deceive the people with the fact that we're going to integrate someone now. We can invest our money and our strength to ensure peaceful coexistence at best. Look at the experience of the Germans living with Turkishs for 40 years! German scientists and German society are concerned that the survival of the German nation is threatened in such circumstances... ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: “Lie! Absolute lies!” ) There is no lie! There's no lie! In public television, a special study of a German scientist who has studied integration processes for 40 years is available in the information medium, and this study shows that the existence of a German nation is under threat. And if we are responsible and logical, consistent people, then we will worry about the existence of our nation. ( The ringing of noise, the intermediates. Depp. S. Aboltiņa: “Speak about what is in the particular bill!” ) What?...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U247	Mrs. Schiff! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Mrs Šimfas, I am calling for no discussion with the Chamber and for a further debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U248	But then I asked the hall not to talk to me! Yeah... (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U249	Colleagues, please, let us comply with Mrs. Schiffe's request. Let's not talk... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U250	So let's see each other: I'm talking - you're listening, you're talking - I'm listening! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U251	Thank you. Thank your colleagues for their understanding. And the debate continues with Member Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U252	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you in particular, my fellow lawyers! The draft law may want to read and may not want to read. That is, of course, the right of every Member and also of a lawyer. Mrs Betes mentioned only the first part of the draft law. The draft law also has the second part, which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers is entitled to take decisions on the matters referred to in the first paragraph of that paragraph only to the extent that it has been delegated to it by the Saeima. It follows that the Saeima may delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers all or part of these issues that you have discussed. So the Saeima decides by itself what to delegate and what not to delegate. With regard to the proposals that Mr Judine spoke about, I would remind you, Mr Judine, that when the National Association presented this draft law, I called for any proposals that would apply to this draft law to be submitted within two weeks. Unfortunately, I did not receive any proposals. So obviously... Well, the will is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U253	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U254	(From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “So will it be or will it not be?” ) Hello! I was having a debate for the first time, but I couldn't sit and keep quiet, because I feel ashamed for us... Mr Ageshin spoke of shame today. I'm ashamed of a lot of things. I think it's a shame if Latvia has 20-30 percent of those who don't speak Latvian. It is a shame that integration policy has not been developed in Latvia over these 25 years, that there is no integration plan. Shame that politicians are sitting in the Saeima sitting and throwing responsibility to each other while the people are waiting for normal explanations. It is a shame that we, as a Member State of the European Union, know how to ask, but we do not know how to help and solidarity. It is a shame that we, who elected our own government, do not trust this government. Shame that... We have a European Affairs Commission that works and there was enough debate, and there is a decision, and we are still discussing it... It is also a shame that many politicians do not want to speak the truth and simply want to increase their rating. That's why I'm calling on the commissions... Please follow at least the decisions they take. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U255	Colleagues, before I give the floor to Martin Bondar for the second time, I remind you that the draft law on the law on asylum is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U256	Colleagues, I would like to thank you all for late, but one year later there is a real debate in this house. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis and S. Āboltiņa: “It is for Mrs Šimfas!” ) The nature of the Saeima is... All political forces in the Saeima show their position on issues of national importance. And thank you for that. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I From the drug depot. A.Bērzins and others: “We are voting!” ) Post scriptum. Mr. Brigmann, do the Greens and Farmers really have nothing to say about this? Mr. Belevič, you are both in government and in the Saeima! So where should this question be decided? Nationals propose that it be decided by the Saeima. Maybe this must be decided by the government? What do you think you need? Tell me, the Greens and the Farmers? Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U257	Yes, colleagues! So I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on asylum. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 5, for - 23. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U258	Yes, thank you, colleagues. So there was no objection in the committee meeting that the Saeima could decide on asylum policy issues. And there was agreement on the legal need to correct and improve the draft law. Therefore, the deadline for submitting proposals is 8 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U259	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 8 October. Are there any objections to Members? Members don't... And the objections. Please! There is a proposal. Please turn on the microphone for Lolita Chigan! ( Medications.) ( From the drug depot. L. Cigan: “October 15!” , dep. J.Urbanovich: “The refugees are coming! It must be possible until winter!’ ) The Member proposed that the deadline for tabling proposals be set at 15 October. Are there other proposals for colleagues? There are no more proposals. So we have two proposals and we must first vote on the deadline of 15 October. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for the second reading of the draft law on asylum - on 15 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 42, for - 5. The proposal is rejected. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 8 October this year. The order of business - consideration of draft decisions. Draft Decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft Law on Competition (No 269/Lp12) until 8 October this year. Nobody wants to report. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision "On the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to Competition Law" (No 269/Lp12) until 8 October this year". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore supported. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the member Edward Smiltēna, Alda Adamoviča, Gaida Berzina, Armanda Krauze, Solvita Āboltiņa and Mārtiņš Bondara's draft law "Amendment to the Criminal Law" be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U260	Yes, colleagues! Mr Bondara thanked everyone for the passionate debate that at last we are talking about what really needs to be decided on refugees. I would like to take you from this issue to a more constructive position and call for a debate on the real things that we should do: these small things to strengthen our borders and take other steps. In particular, the State Border Guard has established that since mid-2014 the areas of activity in which organized crime is actively involved have changed significantly. As the geopolitical situation in the world changes rapidly enough, the representatives of organised crime have focused most on criminal activities related to the illegal migration of migrants across the border of the European Union. As a result, the number of illegal migrants detained by the State Border Guard and their displaced persons has increased several times since mid-2014. The State Border Guard has concluded that almost all cases of smuggling of illegal immigrants are organised and carried out by representatives of organised crime by analysing the detention conditions and information obtained when investigating cases of illegal immigrants crossing the state border of Latvia. The plan to prevent and combat organised crime was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on 5 June 2014. According to the plan, organised crime is one of the most serious forms of crime that poses the greatest threat and is a direct threat to the security of Latvia and further economic development of the country. Organised crime affects not only the economic and political processes of a particular country, but also of the world's society as a whole. The continuous development of modern technologies has opened up more opportunities for criminal groups to expand their activities, making the activities of criminal organisations transnational, thus making them stronger, more latency and more influential. It is estimated that this business brings between 500 and 5000 euros for every migrant. Given that the Republic of Latvia has acceded to the Schengen Agreement, it is essential to respect the principle of solidarity and mutual responsibility between the Member States. When controlling the state border of Latvia, Latvia cares not only for its internal security, but also for the internal security of all other members of the Schengen Agreement, because border control at internal borders has been abolished throughout the Schengen area. Therefore, in order for Latvia to be able to fulfil its international obligations in a common economic and security area, it is necessary to establish effective preventive means of ensuring the integrity and security of the state border. And for this very reason, the Unity in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior... We offer to significantly increase the penalties for such criminal offences, i.e. illegal transfer of a person across the state border, as well as provision of an opportunity to reside illegally in the Republic of Latvia. We have seen a lot of stories about those who accidentally cross the border with various migrants. And there is also much talk about the problem of imposing a sentence: a fine or forced labour instead of a real prison sentence. We therefore call for this to be changed. Colleagues! I know that many in Latvia feel that immigrants are a Mediterranean problem, that it is far away and that it affects us little. However, we do not know how refugee flows will change if the Mediterranean borders become more difficult to overcome. And that is why we need to think much more quickly about possible events, be a step ahead and strengthen Latvia's state borders. I therefore call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U261	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Andrejs Judina, Solvita Āboltiņa, Lolita Čigāne, Kārlis Šadurska and Edwards Smiltēns refer the draft law on amendments to the Asylum Law to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U262	Dear colleagues, We are talking quite a lot about whether or not we can receive refugees; if we can, how much. Of course, such things can be discussed, but I think it is much more important to talk about the practical steps that we can take to ensure that these people are integrated into our societies more quickly, more effectively. The Unity has developed a proposal for an amendment to the Asylum Act, which has a very practical content. In particular, we believe that it is very important for refugees, asylum seekers and the other categories referred to in the law to be able... Minors would be given the opportunity to study in Latvian. This is very important from the point of view of integration, because indeed, knowing the state language and speaking the state language will make it easier for people to find a place in society as well as find a job and become part of Latvian society. I think there is no need for any specific evidence here, and I will not continue to call on you to promote this draft law. I ask you to do this because it is an important thing and it will really contribute to the integration of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U263	Thank you. Are there any objections to the handover of the draft law by Members? There is no objection by Members. Thus, the draft law is passed on to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that a written answer has been received to Members' questions, which informs you that due to the absence of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovskas, written answers to Members' questions about the action plan on the possible mass arrival of asylum seekers in Latvia will be provided on Monday, 28 September. Meeting on today's question and answer. The written reply received to the question by Member Zarina, Mirska, Raimonds Rubika, Potapkin and Orlova to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the Inactions of the Ministry of Economics in the Field of Construction” is not satisfied, but the Prime Minister cannot come to the response today. Regarding the Member, Mr Guntis Belēvičs, Minister of Health of Silver, May, Baloža, Šimfas and Platoper, the written responses received to the question “On the implementation of e-health projects” are not satisfied, but the Minister informed that he could not attend the oral response. ( From the hall: “But, behold, where it is sitting! ” ) The written responses received by Mr Janis Reirs, Minister of Finance for the implementation of the shadow economic measures, in connection with the question of Members Meija, Silver, Baloža, Šimfas and Platoper, are not satisfied, but the Minister informs that he will come to an oral response. Regarding the question asked by Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, the Minister for Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola, about the faster liberalisation of the gas market, the written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs that it is not possible to attend the oral response today. The written reply received by Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister for Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On Collisions in the Construction Sector” is not satisfied, but the Minister cannot come to the response today. On the question of Member Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Zariņa, Agešina and Arthur Rubika to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the plan of events regarding the possible mass arrival of asylum seekers in Latvia”. The question has been referred to the Minister of the Interior, Kozlovski, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs. Ministers inform you that no oral reply can be given today in connection with absence. Minister of the Interior Kozlovskis informs us, as I said, that a written reply will be given on 28 September. The written reply received to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the Regulatory Regulation of the Construction Field” is not satisfied with the question of Member Zarina, Zemļinska, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova. The question was referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who is unable to come today to give an oral answer. Regarding Member Zarina, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Latvia’s position on the issue of refugee quotas”. This issue has been re-addressed to the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovskis, and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: There are no answers! ) Both ministers informed that they could not attend today’s oral response due to absence. Minister of the Interior Kozlovskis informs that a written answer to this question will also be given on 28 September. New questions have also been received from Members. Members Pimenov, Ribakov, Urbanovich, Elksniņš and Agešins have asked Members about the planned measures in the Law on Value Added, and it is submitted to the Minister of Finance Janis Reiras. Members Silver, Maya, Platoper, Balodis and Symfa have asked Members about the development of science and its financing, and it is submitted to the Minister for Education and Science, Mārīte Seile, for a reply. Members Silver, Maya, Platoper, Balodis and Simfa have submitted a question to Members about the agreement signed by Joint Stock Company Air Baltic Corporation with Bombardier Inc. and it is submitted to the Minister of Transport Anria Matīss for a reply. So, with regard to today's question and answer. It will take place at 17.00 and will be attended by Minister for Finance Jānis Reirs. Consequently, the entire agenda has been examined. Before closing the sitting, we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the results are being prepared, the name of the Saeima Member Lolita Chiganė.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U264	Dear colleagues, I invite the members of the Finnish-Latvian Parliamentary Cooperation Group to meet immediately after the meeting in the Chamber next to the Chamber! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U265	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U266	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Nally Kleinberga, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Romanas Naudiņš, Sergejs Potapkins, Jānis Tutins and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-24-PT12-318-U267	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
