ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Colonel is 9 a.m. Please take your seats! Please take your seats! I would be very happy if Member Bondar also took his seat. Then we... I think we can now start the sitting of the Saeima on 5 March 2015. Dear colleagues, Before we start to discuss the approved agenda for today's sitting, we need to decide on possible amendments to it. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests to make changes to the agenda of today’s sitting of the Saeima and to postpone the examination of the draft decision “On the approval of the Saeima to change the terms of the state loan to the state public limited liability company “Privatisation Agency” after the second section “Conclusion, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust”. Do Members object to such amendments to the agenda? ( From the LRA Group: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Mother!” ) We therefore need to make a distinction by voting. Please call me! We will vote on the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission proposal to amend agenda of today’s meeting and to postpone the examination of the draft decision “On the approval of the Saeima for the change of terms of the state loan to the state public limited liability company “Privatisation Agency” after the second section “Conclusion, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of the public office, expression of trust or distrust”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On -69, against -6, refraining from -1. The order of business has been amended. In turn, the Legal Commission is asking to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (registration number 192/Lp12) for first reading. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for an amendment to the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 5 March this year and as the first point it includes draft decision “On the approval of the mandate of the 12th Saeima Member while Members elected from the National Association “All for Latvia” – “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” candidate list in the Riga Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Ten Members - Gunārs Rusiņš, Rihards Kols, Imants Krādnieks, Gaidis Berzins, Einars Cilinskis, Romanas Kadiņš, Edvins Šnore, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Inguna Ribena and Janīna Kursīte-Pakule - are asking for an amendment to the agenda of today's sitting and for consideration of the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law on Immigration (No.24/Lp12). Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “Vote!” ) Members request a vote. Please call me! We will vote on the proposal to amend the agenda of today's sitting and include a draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law on Immigration (No 24/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The order of business has been amended. Dear colleagues, We are starting to discuss the agenda for today's sitting. The first item is the draft decision “On the approval of the mandate of the Member of the 12th Saeima of Ritvara Jansona while the elected Members of the National Association “All for Latvia” – “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” are in office in the Riga Electoral Region”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Saeima Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications has received an application from the 12th Saeima Member Andrs Vilks, in which he expresses his wish to set aside the mandate on the basis of Article 4, second paragraph, paragraph, of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. Next candidate from National Association “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” is Ritvars Jansons. The Commission has received an application from Ritvar Janson in which he agrees to take up the duties of Member of the Saeima. The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U3	Thank you. I call on Ritvar Janson to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U4	I swear, Ritvars Jansons, to be loyal to Latvia before the people of Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U5	Thank you. I call on you to sign a solemn promise! Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the approval of the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate while from the National Association “All for Latvia!” - Members elected to the list of candidates for “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” in the Riga Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. I invite Member Ritvars Jansons to sit in Saeima's sitting room. Dear colleagues, The Saeima continues today's meeting with reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. It has been presented by Members Debtor, Chair, Dombrava, Kirštein and Cilinski. The Saeima's Bureau proposes to hand over this draft law to the... ( Medications. Depp. I. Patrol: ‘It has been signed by other persons!’ ) I am sorry, I have a mixed agenda. Yeah, really... Thus, the Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission by Liepiņa, Kaliningrad, Viļuma, Bondara, Šica, Ruka and Freeer” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission by the Member. One Member can speak for, one against handing over the draft law to the Commission. The name to Member Ivars Freezers, he will speak for.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U6	Dear Member of the Saeima, Dear Bureau! Honourable Members! The draft law to be discussed “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” can be seen in context with another draft law – “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operating Tax and Business Passenger Vehicle Tax”. The nature of the proposed amendments is that road transport owners will pay for the real time when the vehicle is being used. What if this payment were included in the excise duty? This is currently the case in advance by paying a vehicle operating tax and does not depend on the length and frequency of use of the vehicle. That's not really fair. Those using road infrastructure to a greater extent would also have to pay more for it. Another important aspect is that in road and road transport, the Baltic area is to a large extent united. Vehicles are not subject to vehicle operation tax in our neighbouring countries - Lithuania and Estonia. We are therefore seeing a situation where a large proportion of Latvian vehicles are registered in Lithuania or Estonia. Thus, it is unfair that these vehicle owners pay less for the use of Latvian roads. In particular, I would like to highlight the fact that, from a national point of view, Latvia is at a disadvantage compared to neighbouring countries, because our people are paying for the use of Lithuanian and Estonian roads, but the people of neighbouring countries are doing so to a lesser extent. According to the Road Safety Directorate of Latvia, in 2016 it is planned to collect a vehicle operating tax of about 60 million euros. If the tax were to be abolished, this amount would be offset by an increase in excise duty, as proposed in the draft law. In consultation with experts, it should be concluded that the increase in excise duty on petrol and gas would be 2 cents per litre, diesel 5 cents per litre. Of course, the question is: how will this affect fuel prices? It follows from the economic theory that the increase in the tax will split between the buyer and the seller. The extent to which the tax will be passed on to the customer depends on the flexibility of demand prices. According to estimates by American experts (Molly Espey, Phil Goodwin, Joyce Dargay, Mark Hanly), this flexibility is about 0.25 for fuel. This means that demand is inflexibilities. As a result, the tax would lie mainly on the buyer. However, there is reason to think that in Latvian circumstances fuel demand is more flexible, because, as I said, the Baltic space is largely unified in this area. Therefore, in order to ensure the competitiveness of fuel sold in Latvia with Lithuania and Estonia, traders will have to take a larger part of the tax on themselves. According to Baltic Export data, currently the profits of fuel traders in neighbouring countries account for a smaller share of the sale price than in Latvia. The proposed changes will be particularly beneficial for the poorest in the regions. Regional pensioner organisations specifically support the elimination of vehicle operating tax. I therefore call on Members to support the draft law that has been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U7	Thank you. ‘ No one has applied to speak against’. Do Members object to this draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission presented by Member Liepiņa, Kleinberga, Viļuma, Bondara, Šics, Ruka and Brīver to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 24, for - 17. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” submitted by the Member Debtor, Chair, Dombrava, Kiršteina and Cilinska be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. The name of the Member Immant Debtor. He's obviously going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U8	Good morning, colleagues and honourable Chairman of the sitting. With 1 January 2014, we introduced a new regulation that the merchant should initially pay a basic rate of 1.5 per cent for the real estate he owns, including residential areas. And only if residential areas are rented out can a rate of 0,2, 0,4 or 0,6 percent be applied depending on the cadastral value. The problem is that in order to prove the renting of this residential area, at that time, following the recommendations of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, a norm was introduced that the only proof is registration in the Land Register. This registration in the Land Register is expensive enough and costs more than EUR 100 or up to EUR 100, and it is therefore necessary to facilitate these proof procedures. Since the trader works with the EDS system on a daily basis, the best way to register such a rental agreement is precisely the EDS system. And that is what these amendments provide for. Therefore, if the premises are rented out, the operator shall register them in the EDS system and the municipality shall then apply this reduced rate accordingly, following the information provided by the State Revenue Service. Because the problem is that due to this complex and expensive registration merchant, even though he has rented out the area, this difference between the real estate tax of 1.5 per cent and the reduced rate is simply imposed on the tenant's shoulders. And the other thing that is going on with these amendments is that. Well, unfortunately, our people sometimes creatively approach the rules of the law, and if it is written that the areas should be rented out, then it will be possible to apply the reduced ones. If one person rents several apartments... Either, even for decades, this reduced tax rate is thus applied. With these amendments, we will rule out this possibility; it will only be possible to apply the reduced rate if it is a declared address or additional address. And the additional address is for the purpose: if a person lives in the region and it is his basic address in which he lives, the Riga apartment, which is rented out, will count as an additional address and will also be able to apply this reduced rate. We had a discussion about whether the transitional provisions needed to apply this provision with July 1, because the State Revenue Service needs some changes to the EDS system. So it is possible that when we look at this draft law in the commission, we will move it and will be with January 1, 2016... But in any other way, I call for support and transfer to the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U9	Thank you. ‘ No one has applied to speak against’. Do Members object to this draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, Before we look at the next item on the agenda, I informed you that the Saeima Bureau has received two more proposals to amend the agenda of today's sitting. Members Rusiņš, Kols, Krādnieks, Berzins, Cilinskis, Nadiņš, Šnore, Latkovskis, Riena and Kursīte-Pakule are asking for changes to the agenda of today's sitting and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima “On the election of the Member Ritvars Jansons to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government”. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug: “No! ” ) Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. And the same Members, i.e. Rusiņš, Kols, Rūdnieks, Berzins, Cilinskis, Nadiņš, Šnore, Latkovsky, Rībena and Kursīte-Pakule, are asking for amendments to the agenda of today's sitting and to include the draft decision of the Saeima “On the election of the Member Ritvars Jansons to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Dear colleagues, We shall continue to examine the agreed agenda. The next item is the draft decision on the award of the title of honorary judge to Kalvis Torgans. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U10	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 26 February following the proposal of the Council for the Judiciary, on the basis of Article 66 of the Law “On Judicial Power”, the draft decision “On Granting the Name of the Honorary Judge to Kalvis Torgans” was reviewed. Pursuant to Article 66 of the Law “On Judicial Power”, which provides that the Saeima may, on a proposal of the Council for the Judiciary, award the name of an honorary judge to a judge who has worked in good faith and terminated the work of a judge, the Legal Commission considered the possibility to nominate a former judge of the Department of Civil Cases of the Supreme Court to award the title of an honorary judge. Kalvis Torgans is an outstanding lawyer, professional and authority in the field of civil law. He has a great role in creating legal science and promoting understanding of civil law in the country, as well as significant investments in development of the case-law of the Senate of the Supreme Court. Kalvis Torgans with his professional activities has strengthened the reputation of the court in society, actively participates in the legislative procedure, participating in working groups of draft laws and sittings of the Legal Commission. Kalvis Torgans has been awarded with the Order of Three Stars, the Honorary Sign of the Judicial System, in 2011 received the annual award of the University of Latvia in science, in 2013 he received the Supreme Court Themis Award. In view of the above, the members of the Legal Commission of the Saeima have supported that draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for the name of the Honorary Judge to be given to Kalvis Torgans.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Granting the Name of the Honorary Judge to Kalvis Torgans”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Mr Ritvars Jansons to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Nobody wants to say anything. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Ritvars Jansons to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Mr Ritvars Jansons, Member of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Ritvars Jansons to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against - no, refraining - 3. So the decision has been made. The next item is the examination of draft decisions. On the agenda the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the change of conditions of a state loan to the state public limited liability company “Privatisation Agency”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U12	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) invites the Saeima to agree to the change of the terms of the State loan to the state public limited liability company “Privatisation Agency”, so that it can transfer the income from the sale of the shares of Citadele bank in a subsequent transfer of the debt to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the redemption of the state loan and, thereafter, to cover its expenses. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima... “ Depp. ” — Depp. Mr Pimenov has taken part in the debate. Interviews from the medicine: Mr. Pimenova! ; “Pimenov!” ) I am sorry. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U14	Thank you. Good morning, Members of the Saeima! Thus, the ‘Privatisation Agency’ requires the consent of the Saeima to amend the agreement between the ‘Privatisation Agency’ and the Ministry of Finance so that the agency can amend the agreements with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The procedure now proposed is indeed simpler than was intended and foreseen in the shareholder agreement, but only remains unclear why it was not yet done at the time when the shareholder agreement was concluded. It must have been because it was not yet clear - there will or will not have to be a state guarantee. It is already clear that there will be no such need. And so this amendment has been made. There is a clear simplification of the repayment order of the state commitments of Latvia... In addition, the State guarantee mechanism is not activated. All this could be accepted if this consent did not imply indirect support and responsibility for a politically and economically questionable measure. This is complicated by a very difficult background, which includes a lot of contradictory and opaque actions by public administration. In particular, the transfer of Parex banka to the State, the split of the bank into two banks and the challenging opaque sale of Citadele bank. Our group members had written a letter with a request at the end of the previous year... to understand what is happening and whether the information we received in the press about the fact that the sale of Parex banka's shares to EBRD was not a successful sale or privatisation, but it should be considered rather Latvian borrowing from EBRD... And, as confirmed by the Ministry of Economics, in our answer to our question, indeed to the EBRD’s contributions to the share capital of Citadele banka and Reverta... There was EUR 93 million in fixed capital investments... all the eligible rights of the EBRD to sell its shares in the Privatisation Agency. Last week, the chairman of the agency's board, Mr. Loginova, actually lifted a clandestine clandestine from this deal, this contract and discovered that a real option agreement existed and therefore... and valid. So now EBRD has an option or right to choose - to sell your Citadele shares or not. Everything depends on the price fixed in the option agreement, for which EBRD has the right to sell Latvian shares. If their price had risen to the sky, it is unlikely that EBRD would have exercised its sales rights. However, since it is low, it is advantageous for EBRD to exercise its right to avoid loss-making and to recover the 93 million invested in Citadele and Reverta’s share capital. But if it is a loan, the loan must be paid. And the price of the loan is also indicated in the presentation of the agency, i.e. EUR 21 million. This is the price of the loan for which taxpayers in the Republic of Latvia had to pay. That is something we need to remember. In addition to all payments already made to take over Parex banka, Latvia has to pay 114 million euros under the option agreement with EBRD. So there are 750 million lats that Latvia paid for taking over Parex banka, and we sum up this amount - 114 million euros. It will be paid not by the shareholders, but by the aunt from Bauska and the fork from Vecpiebalga - the people of Latvia. It should be noted that in fact the Agency has already paid an advance of EUR 1,26 million and that the EBRD retains its shares of about EUR 24 million and has agreed to refinance the subordinated loan to Citadele bank of EUR 11 million. The total cash payment is EUR 77 million. Note that this amount is... is not small! We also need to think about the fiscal impact on the general government budget. The Ministry of Economy confirmed that this amount was shown in the budget of the previous year. But this was done secretly, because no one was declared to have such an option agreement. So I think this whole story... all this agreement was made in a rather opaque and secret way from the Saeima and, consequently, from the people. If I were just... Just make decisions... I would not take part in this vote at all. However, given that our group is of the opinion that we cannot take part in this tragedy, I declare that the group will not support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U15	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U16	(From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “Soon only! Laconic!’ ) Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Today is the time when the truth comes to light. The sandwich you're talking about... Very much worried that the bank would be sold for the sandwich, but today we see that she is not even sold for the sandwich and that nothing will be there for us! But I will perhaps remind you of the range of criteria that existed when we debated the possible sale of Citadele bank. Well, the bank's equity of 150 million. When the bank was wound up, the State would receive 150 million minus the 25 per cent envisaged for the EBRD. ‘ Citadele’s new office building on the river Daugava alone cost EUR 80 million. The sale price set by potential investors at that time ranged from 70 to 140 million. The experts estimated that the amount of the transaction could range from 180 million to 300 million. The greatest lie in the whole of this event has proved to be a Unity, about which, in principle, everything was very clear. Trip to Georgia... also the fact that Vjačeslav Dombrovskis admitted at that time that the government “Citadeles” sales were postponed for the last moment... Who is responsible for this? Nobody is responsible. This was in relation to possible proceedings before the European Commission, in relation to the infringements committed, including - moving applicants to the next round without ensuring competition. Who is responsible for this? No one is responsible either! The Prime Minister, when we debated whether Citadele will be sold for a sandwich, has indicated that Citadele will be sold more expensive than Prudentia has appreciated. Well, thank you very much for not saying that Citadeli will sell more expensive than Zaķis has appreciated! It would be that way too... to a great extent pleasant. In reality, the Greens/Farmers Union proved to be the most honest way of doing so. The leader of the group, Augusts Brigmanis, has simply said that he does not know at all about the sale of Citadele. The National Association appeared in the sale of the mouth-trap “Citadeles”. This is unfortunately common. At the time, the representative of the National Association, Mr. Berzins, had a military request to see the sale of Citadele in various parliamentary commissions. On 18 September, literally two weeks before the elections, Dzintars Rasnačs, speaking in “The points of view of the groups”, stated: “The National Association has been against the sale of Citadele Bank, and the Ministers of the National Union have also defended this position in the government. The national association has already encouraged the government to negotiate with the European Commission on the change of terms of sale. However, we do not believe that this has been done properly. Since the sale of Citadele is secret, detailed information on the terms of the transaction is not available to the Saeima and therefore it is not possible to fully assess all the economic and security aspects of the transaction. We believe that the political responsibility for this transaction should lie with the Unity, whose representatives in the government are in the positions of Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Minister of Economy. They are the only members of the government to which detailed information on this transaction is available.’ What's going on today? Planned, how much is it? Instead of 70 to 140 million, the state of Latvia will receive an absolute “brank”! We won't get anything! There are no additional benefits in the state budget and the Treasury, despite the fact that a member of the Unity such as Veiko Spolitis has also publicly indicated in advance that these funds will be transferred to the Treasury. Unfortunately, that is not the case. As a result, even on this issue, the whole Latvian society was affected by the sandwich has turned into absolute zero. The state of Latvia will not get... Which one of you once mentioned that we would get nothing by selling the bank Citadele? Nobody! Everyone was silent. The Head of Government was silent. The Minister of Finance was silent. The pre-election of a political party in its promises was based on its own ideas with possible costs that could, for example, be covered by... of which - from the money that we will get as a result of the sale of Citadele. And where is the fair leader of the government today, who has promised to publish the terms of the Citadele Treaty since September last year? Nothing is known to the public either! Therefore, honourable colleagues, speaking in bankers' language, you have recorded the lot today, but we are only gambling, either, perhaps we are all on our own with regard to the actions you have implemented in relation to Citadele's bank. We're okay... There is nothing, and neither do we! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U17	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U18	Dear colleagues, In fact, I understand very well the pain of Members of the Group for everything that is connected with Citadele's bank. I remember very well how the last Saeima... At the time, the members of the “Summer Centre” were very keen in taking an active position in the bank's divisional process, lobbying the interests of former shareholders Kargina and Krasovicka. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Ley!” ) At the time, there was an impression of a very high degree of balance between the interests of the SAMAN's rhetoric and the interests of lawyers in proceedings against the State against former shareholders. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš intermediates.) I also understand that the donations have to be paid off. All this is understandable and clear. The only thing I would like to add is that I think Mr Elksniņš' rhetoric is not in line with the standards of the Code of Conduct of Members of the Saeima. ( From the drug depot. A. Elbow’s mids.) But when you talk to Mr. Pimenova, where there were many figures, where there was a beautiful manipulation of numbers, when you have to call out the percentage of credit in absolute terms, so as not to give the impression of what the interest rate is actually... All this was charming and nice, and I could reduce the words of the two gentlemen who have just spoken in the truce to one simple sentence: only cowardly pays off the debts.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U19	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Andrejs Elksniņš, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U20	In fact, Mr Šadurskis's opinion on Parex was very opposed and pleased, but I have a question for you: why do you shoot this kind of thing in your foot? Because one of the ministers of your government - and this is also publicly recognised by the members of the “Citadele” Council! - led the representatives of the Privatisation Agency to meet with... including, for example, Shefler, who probably was behind Kargins and Krasovickis... the acquisition of Citadele by an investor representing those shareholders directly. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis intersorpts.) Dear colleagues, It is your party that has tried to sell Citadele either to one or to the other. All the more! You know very well... you yourself know very well that one of the directions of the parliamentary committee of inquiry is to investigate the question of whether our own doves - doves - who you personally may have been lobbying - are hiding behind Citadele's potential buyers.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U21	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U22	Hello, colleagues! Mr. Shadursky! You mentioned the facts about... claims concerning the manipulation of numbers. If all that is related to the Citadele bank is not one big afer and if this decision, which will now be taken, is not part of this afer, then please come here and tell me what amount is sold to Citadele... Shares of Citadele owned by Latvia! How much of this amount will now be returned to the EBRD? How much of this amount will be paid for this sale... implementation of your sales process? To whom will it be specifically returned, and how will it ultimately remain in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U23	Member Igor Pimenov, second time in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U24	If a mathematician colleague Shadurskis does not like figures and figures - I understand that because of working conditions, it is not quite pleasant to go into the parliamentary procedures too - I would like to describe the process that took place... and remind of the promises and announcements that we heard in 2008 and 2009: the state sold part of Parex shares to EBRD, and this is a very beneficial transaction, it is privatisation, in any case it corresponds to the Latvian economy and public administration... the philosophy of administration. Now we learned that it was not a sale, it was a loan. All right! The loan is also a process that can be beneficial to Latvia. But let us remember that no free loan can be! There may be, but very rarely. And this loan also had to be paid for. And who paid for it? Paying our taxpayers! Did any of the Members of the Saeima know that they had to pay for the loan? Nobody knew. That's what I'm talking about. And this fee is equal to EUR 21 million. Whether it's a little or a lot - let the State Audit Office conclude this or, I don't know any other institution with such competence! But at least Members and voters need to know about it. But once again I say that the whole of this loan, together with interest, cost EUR 114 million, and this money must certainly be repaid. Completely or partially, but to be returned. And you have to remember about it too! And it's not manipulation. That is the fact. I literally quote what the Chairman of the Board of the Privatisation Agency, Mr Vladimir Loginova, has given us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U25	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U26	(From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Speak to understand!” ) Dear colleagues! I do not want to engage in long discussions on this whole issue of Citadele's sale. There is a parliamentary committee of inquiry, and when the results are available, they will probably be reported. But specifically Mr. Elksniņš mentioned that one of the governments seems to... that allegedly one of the government ministers ordered members of the board of the Privatisation Agency to meet with one potential buyer. ( From the drug: ‘ Is it left?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “; dep. A. Elbow’s mids.) This is quite a serious accusation, because the sales process was structured in such a way that one... That it was... that the right and the power to meet any of the potential buyers, tenderers, was Société Générale; it is an intermediary. So this is a rather serious statement, and I hope that you have some evidence that this was really the case and that there is one, well, at least this parliamentary committee of inquiry has been informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U27	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the change of state loan conditions for the state public limited liability company “Privatisation Agency”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft law amending the law on the circulation of alcoholic beverages, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U28	Hello, dear colleagues! Now we're moving on to more pleasant things. To your attention the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”. The commission responsible has received four proposals. 1. - a proposal made by the commission itself. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U29	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U30	Colleagues, let's get something nicer about not selling the bank to the real buyers! And I think we are correcting one injustice with this proposal. In 2013, when it was decided that all alcoholic beverages should be separated in a special sales space, they were passed over, in my opinion, to local small winemakers of Latvia, because, for example, in the “Rimi” section of the store, “Purchase” there was no longer any buy-out of Latvian wines, which are a niche product; they actually went to the common space, were traded together with Spanish and Australian wines, it was difficult to find. This caused losses to winemakers - 7 to 10 thousand euros per year, therefore revenue in the state budget of Latvia is affected. With this amendment, we are correcting this injustice, and from now on it will be possible to place Latvian production, local production, also outside the common alcohol stands. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U31	Thank you. I closed the debate. So I understand that Mr Smilten is asking for support for the proposal that has already been supported by the Commission. And the Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U32	2. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U34	3. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. There has been no support in the Commission, not because it is bad, but because we have already solved this problem by supporting proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U35	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U36	And 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission has received support. Please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U38	Please support the second final reading of the draft law on the law on the circulation of alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on the movement of alcoholic beverages! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at second, final, final reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Office Law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U40	Hello, Presidium! Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 24 February, the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law” for the third reading. No proposals have been submitted. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U41	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the draft law in the third, final, reading is supported. The next item on the agenda is the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Time and Application Procedure of the Entering into Force and Application of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U42	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has completed its work aimed at introducing building rights into an institution that would avoid the creation of shared property in the future. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to thank all Members who participated in the drafting and adoption of both this draft law and the Civil Act. Also, thank you to the Ministry of Justice, all experts, stakeholders. The Commission has received six proposals for this draft law. 1. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U44	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Janis Iesalnieks, which has been partly supported, is included in proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U45	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U46	3. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U48	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been partly supported, is included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U50	5. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U52	And Amendment 6 is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U54	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Time and Application Procedure of the Entering into Force and Application of the Civil Law of the Renewed Republic of Latvia of 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases” in the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U55	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -1 and for -18. So the draft law in the third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U56	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents”, third reading. In the Commission, we have only received one proposal. It is from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Karina Korna, and has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U58	Given that all the proposals have been examined, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U59	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law at third, final, reading is supported. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium has received a request from Member Lochmele-Luniv, Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Nikiforova, Ivana Klementjeva, Zarina and other Members “On the portal www.kola.lv” and is addressed to Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile. Do the applicants want to motivate the application submitted? If there is such elections, the speaking time shall be three minutes in accordance with the roll of order of the Saeima. Please! The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U60	Hello, dear colleagues! Due to the fact that the Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Seiles, is actually avoiding giving oral answers to our questions about the development of the portal www.school.lv, we are asking her to provide answers on the substance of our questions. The reasons for the request are as follows: The Ministry of Education and Science has provided information that the service test materials about the project “Development of the portal www.school.lv” will be transferred for further investigation to the law enforcement authorities. Let me remind you: it is about wasting almost EUR 3.5 million of public money. Unfortunately, it is not disclosed to what extent the prosecutor's office will receive the service test materials, if there are circumstances that only the period from 2 July 2009 until 1 April 2013, although attempts to continue the project took place until January 2015. It is highly probable that the period of service inspection and the range of officials responsible were selected with the aim of avoiding the evaluation of officials currently holding high positions in the state administration and in the Saeima. The waste of public funds - at least EUR 3.5 million! - the responsible continue to work in other posts, notwithstanding the damage they have caused to the State as a result of their acts or omissions. Moreover, the Ministry of Education and Science does not see it as a solution - to bring a claim for civil damages against those responsible. The Ministry of Education and Science has provided neither sufficient capacity for project management nor qualitative project monitoring and evaluation. Already in 2012, it was concluded that the functionality offered by the project complements the already available options on other portals and that the project costs are unreasonably high and that the project should be discontinued. Unfortunately, since then, the Heads of Government and the responsible ministers have tried to conceal the situation without reporting the damage to the law enforcement authorities or the public. It is also important that the companies that received significant payments from the state budget and the European Union funds for the poor quality of the project specifications and the poor quality of the project and its specifications are currently involved in the implementation of other projects for which the State is a contracting party and which are financed from the state budget or the European Union funds. And I think most importantly: according to the information resulting from the letter from the Central Financial and Contracting Agency...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U61	Mrs Lochmele-Lunova, in this case... I'm sorry, you can't continue...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U62	literally half a minute... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U63	No, you can't go on because you're motivated... ( Interfaces from the drug: “No! ” “But let others!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U64	literally half a minute... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U65	... both attached to the Saeima sitting verbatim reports. And according to the order of the Saeima, speaking time is not extended at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U66	literally ten seconds!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U67	Not to be extended according to the Saeima roll of order. Thank you. Please follow the order.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U68	... for one and a half million to be paid from this year's budget to the Ministry of Education and Science!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U69	Thank you to Mrs Lochmele. This request shall be submitted to the Board of Appeal in accordance with the rule of order of the Saeima. Thank you. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. The next item on the agenda is the draft law "Amendments to the Civil Law", third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U70	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, As I have already said, this draft law and almost all of its proposals are related to the previously supported draft law. So we look at the draft law "Amendments to the Civil Law". The Legal Commission has received nine proposals. The proposal is a motion by the Member, Mr Veikis, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U71	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U72	Dear colleagues, It is a pity that the proposer is not present today, and so we will probably not be able to debate it, but perhaps, in principle, the debate is impossible, because we are working on draft laws and our aim is not just to talk about something, to exchange and to remain with it, but to establish a new order. And our instrument is the law. And it is very important that the law contains rules that can be applied. Unfortunately, the proposal tabled by my colleague, Spolitis, is not applicable. Not valid. On several occasions we heard from the author that it was proposed to restore the norm, but such norms were never in our Civil Law. In the relevant section of the Civil Law, where a new norm is to be entered, issues regarding the conclusion of marriage are regulated. And we must not write any thoughts, good or bad, in an unexpected, useless place. An article proposed by the author to be used to record a new regulation is an article that we excluded... This article was excluded two years ago and provided for regulation for a institute such as compatibility. So, in principle, we must not work in the way our colleague works this time. And we can certainly debate and we will certainly discuss the partnership, but the option that is being proposed is absolutely useless: it is not legally correct. Because it is the third reading, and third reading should not be presented and supported by such a brother. Please do not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U73	So I closed the debate. And I understand that the Commission has not supported this proposal. Mr Judine is also calling for no support. Are Members unwilling to vote? ( From the drug: “No! No, no! No!” ) Nor does it want to vote. The Commission proposal is therefore not supported, and Members share this Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U74	Yeah, thank you. 2. - The legal commission's proposal. A little technical. We agreed in the Commission that this proposal will be submitted by the Commission or the Ministry of Justice respectively in another draft law that will be open, because the entry into force of this proposal cannot be linked... the possible entry into force is not linked to the entry into force of the Building Rights Institute. The Commission's proposal is therefore welcomed.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U76	3. - The legal commission's proposal. More style proposal that is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U78	4. - The legal bureau's proposal, which has received support. This proposal is based on the fact that such a detailed list should not be made in civil law. It is clear that the right of construction will only be allowed in relation to non-residential buildings or civil engineering, and this results from other provisions of this chapter. Consequently, the proposal of the Legal Office is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U80	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Jānis Iesalnieks. This has been partly supported and included in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U81	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U82	6. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U84	7. - The legal commission's proposal. We also talked about this proposal that it could be included in another draft law in order not to affect the entry into force of this draft law. The Commission has therefore supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U86	8 / 8 - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Izalnieks, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U87	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U88	And nine. - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides that this law will enter into force on 1 January 2017, therefore with such a reasonable transitional period. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U90	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the third, final reading of the draft law amending the Civil Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U91	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on civil law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law amending the law on maternity and sickness insurance, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Buiķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U92	Dear colleagues and honourable Members! Two proposals have been tabled for the third reading, which is in fact of a technical nature. 1. - The proposal by Reins Uzulnieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare on the recovery of overpaid benefits. The Commission was in favour. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U94	And 2. - the proposal of the Legal Office of the Saeima: "The sick pay is calculated for days of incapacity for work (hours) in which the worker should have worked." The Commission unanimously supported this. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U96	Please support the draft legislation unanimously supported by the Commission at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U97	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Judicial Power, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U98	Dear colleagues, We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” at second reading. I would like to remind you that this draft law has been prepared by the Legal Commission and the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy, because it was found that when reorganising the Supreme Court, thus eliminating the Chambers of the Supreme Court, strange cases have occurred and two vacancies have been left. And in turn, three judges of the Supreme Court are offered to transfer to the regional court. And I would like to emphasise and remind you once again that both the sub-commission and the Legal Commission have assessed this norm in numerous sittings both from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution and the way in which the Supreme Court should act and whether the Supreme Court fully accurately executes the legislator's decision. And when deciding that after two years the same problem will be in the Chamber of Civil Cases of the Supreme Court as well... And in order not to be in a similar situation, these amendments were made. What I would like to emphasise is that before the second reading, Members of the Legal Commission, and in particular an opposition Member, who unfortunately did not attend most of the sub-committee meetings, once again opened a debate on this, tried to criticise this bill very much. And worse than that, by criticising not only colleagues and those debates that have been really about taxpayers' money many times already, and in which colleagues have participated and have sought an optimal solution... Thank you also to Mrs Barch, because a solution was proposed for one person to find a special pension... in what way that could threaten the entire retirement pension... the pension legislative system in our country... So in these countless sittings, a solution was sought that would correspond to both the Constitution and it would be legally correct. At this meeting of the Commission, Mr. Elksniņš permitted a very gross insult to an official of the Ministry of Justice, saying that they had developed a chik. And I really want to say thank you once again to the officials of the Ministry of Justice, who carried out exactly the political set-up decided and commissioned by both the Commission on Justice policy and the Legal Commission, and these solutions have been found to be legally correct. The debate took place even before the second reading, although no proposal has been tabled under Article 95 of the parliamentary roll, because, of course, Members, in a situation where there is a full commission with cameras, very much like to prove themselves. But, as a result, the Commission voted and supported this draft in second reading, and I would also call on you to support this draft in second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U99	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -1, for -15. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U100	Since this draft law is compatible with the Council for the Judiciary, with the higher self-governance institution of the judicial institution, and since it is scheduled for 9 March, I would ask for a deadline for submitting proposals already after this date, i.e. 12 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U101	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 12 March this year. The next item is the draft law on the amendment to the Civil Service Law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U102	President, Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues! I will briefly remind you that the draft law provides for the possibility to make the employees of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice with special grades of service for up to three years as civil servants and to enlist themselves to work in the foreign service. No proposals for second reading have been received. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U103	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U104	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U105	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 10 March this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U106	Good morning, colleagues! We see the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”. The draft law is one of the many initiatives of the President of Latvia, and it provides for amendments... The amendments propose that donations be made to political parties as eligible expenditure. The maximum amount of the donation is one month's salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U107	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U108	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the draft law is to increase public participation in the activities of political parties. However, this draft law does not, by its very nature, call on the public to engage in party activities, but only provides relief for current and future party financiers. Currently, only 213 euros per family can be presented as eligible expenditure for education and medical services to natural persons. This bill, in turn, wants to reach political party donors to raise these facilitations to EUR 360. In my opinion, this is not fair, for example, for parents in multi-child families who take care of the education of children's interests outside the compulsory school scheme. By supporting this draft law, let us not promote democracy and the reduction of inequality, as stated in the Government Declaration, but only - forgive! - strengthening of partialocracy. The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia calls for a vote against this poor quality bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U109	Thank you. I closed the debate. Do you want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U110	I would just like to add that the Commission has supported this draft law at first reading. I ask Members to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U111	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U112	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U113	This year 10. ... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U114	... March.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U115	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 10 March this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U116	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! At its meeting on 24 February this year, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries” and decided to support it at first reading. The draft law is based on two directives, as well as on the guidelines of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority on the handling of complaints by insurance intermediaries. The changes to the regulatory framework are intended to improve the supervision of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries by making it more effective, as well as defining the procedures for handling complaints received from clients, introducing greater protection of the interests of clients and addressing the shortcomings identified in practice in the current regulatory framework. At the Commission meeting, opinions were shared on individual issues in the draft law and the discussion will continue for the second reading as well. One of the main subjects of the discussion was the participation of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries from other Member States in the financing of the FCTC. According to the FCTC, up to 3 per cent of the fees received to brokers for the monitoring, but not less than EUR 150 per year, should be charged to brokers. This would be a new regulation as this supervisory fee is currently included in the related payments of insurance companies. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Commission acknowledged that this rate, which could be applied, was incomprehensiblely high, and that, moreover, the FCMC's budget would not benefit from such a change in regulation. I therefore call on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to support this draft law at first reading so that we can continue to work on improving and improving the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U117	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U118	The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U119	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals was 7 April this year. The next item is the draft law amending the vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax law, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U120	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operating Tax and Corporate Passenger Vehicle Tax’ prepared for second reading. A total of 22 proposals have been received. 1. - Member Daiņa Liepiņš' proposal to change the title of the law to "The Vehicle Operating Tax Act". Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U121	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U122	2. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U123	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U124	3. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U125	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U126	4. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U127	Members shall not object. Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Daina Liepiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, against - 45, abstaining. The proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U128	5. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U129	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Daina Liepiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 46, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U130	6. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U131	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Daina Liepiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 44, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U132	7. - The proposal by Karina Korna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. This time, the Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U134	8 / 8 - The proposal by Karina Korna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U136	9. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U137	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Daina Liepiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 37, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U138	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U139	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U140	11. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U141	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U142	12. - Member Edgars Putra's proposal. Partly supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U143	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U144	13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. No, no... Yeah... Yes, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U146	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U148	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Daina Liepiņš' proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U149	Members are asking...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U150	There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U151	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Daina Liepiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 46, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U152	16. - The proposal by Karina Korna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U153	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U154	17. - The proposal by Karina Korna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U156	18. - The proposal by Karina Korna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U158	19. - A proposal by Arville Asheraden, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported by the Commission, included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U159	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U160	Proposal No 20... Yeah, yeah... 20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U162	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U164	And 22. - The proposal from Member Daina Liepiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U165	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U166	Colleagues! Please support the draft law under consideration at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U167	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law on vehicle operation tax and company passenger vehicle tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U168	On behalf of the Commission, I ask for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set at 18 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U169	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 18 March this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U170	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 192/Lp12). These amendments concern in principle... The three amendments deal with liability for infringements committed in veterinary medicine services. Situations have been clarified; there is a provision for how to be held liable for what is currently outside the law. Having examined this draft law, the Legal Commission also supported it and asked the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U171	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U172	The Commission requests that the deadline be set at five days, i.e. 10 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U173	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 10 March this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda, draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No 24/Lp12). Members do not want to speak. So I'm asking you for a call! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No 24/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 23, it's not. The draft decision is therefore supported. Colleagues, I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for 5 March at 5 p.m. The written reply received to Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and other Members' questions to the Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss “On the Future Development of AS Air Baltic Corporation” is not satisfied, but the Minister informs that it is not possible to arrive today to give an oral answer. The questions of Members Silver, Shimfa, Baloža, Maya and other Members to Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile “On the network of vocational education institutions and the programmes implemented” have been answered in writing, whose applicants are not satisfied, but the Minister informs that it is not possible to come to the response today. The written reply received to the Member Ločmele-Luniv, Elksniņa, Nikiforova, Adamson and Arthur Rubika's Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile “On the project “The development of www.school.lv” does not satisfy the applicants, but the Minister has informed them that it is not possible to come to the oral response today. The written responses received to the Member Ločmele-Luniv, Elksniņa, Nikiforova, Adamson and Arthur Rubika’s question to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards “On the project “The development of the portal www.kola.lv”” are satisfied. The Member Lochmele-Luniv, Elksniņa, Nikiforova, Adamson and Arthur Rubika received a written answer to the Minister of Finance “On the development of the portal www.school.lv” which satisfied the applicants. The Minister informs that he can attend the oral response today, but the answer received is thus satisfactory to the questioners. And the question of Members Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Pimenova to the Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss “On the avoidance of the Ministry of Transport in connection with the inconsistency of Rail Baltica’s economic justification” has been submitted. The questioners ask for a statement of reasons. I understand that Member Zarins... And I'll remind you that the time of motivation is one minute. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U174	A public consultation of Rail Baltica has started. The public's shared attitude towards this project is understandable, as it will directly affect the interests of many people. Distortion of these interests is justified by the great benefits that this project will bring to society and Latvia. Yes, there are obvious benefits that we will gain. However, taking into account a study at the disposal of the Ministry of Transport as a basis for the economic benefit of this project, there are reasonable doubts about both the quality of this study and the value of this project for Latvia. Colleagues, this is a very large study! Even if you see it and split it, you get a sense of project validity. Unfortunately, it also seems that this is all that the Ministry of Transport has done with this study, because without dislodging and getting to know it in more detail, it is obviously inadequate. It contains significant shortcomings, shortcomings, obvious errors and strangeness, such as output data, which are obviously false and are significantly different from the real. Specific facts can be found in our questions. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Transport has not been able to explain these discrepancies either, with its avoidable answers even more confirming concerns...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U175	Mr. Zarins, your speaking time, sorry, is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U176	... on whether it is competent and, in fact,...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U178	... and whether it is actually done in the public interest.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U179	Thank you. Motivation is added to the stenogram. Everyone interested can get acquainted with it. Therefore, colleagues, it is time to register the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U180	Good morning, honourable Members! We look forward to 10 minutes at 10.35, all the group presidents on the Fraction Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U181	Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U182	Dear colleagues, Hasn't registered today: Hosam Abu Meri... Yes, Mārtiņš Bondars ( From the medicine: “Ir!” )), Boriss Cilevičs, Lolita Čigāne, Jānis Dombrava, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Maris Kučinskis, Aivars Meija, Romanas Maudiņš, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Sergejs Potapkins, Romualds Ražuks, Ivans Ribakovs, Veiko Spolitis, Jānis Trupovnieks and Ilze Viņķele.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-03-05-PT12-289-U183	Thank you. So I closed the Saeima sitting.
