ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on September 10th! Before starting to discuss the agenda of the sitting, proposals for amendments should be examined. The committee of the Saeima’s Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and includes the draft decision “On consent to the administrative liability of 12th Saeima Member Silvija Šimfas”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members of the Saeima, Arthur Rubiks, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Igors Zujevs, Ivan Klementjevs and others ask for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr Igors Zujevs from the Commission on European Affairs by the Member of the Saeima. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members of the Saeima, Arthur Rubiks, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Igor Zujevs, Ivan Klementjevs, Vitaly Orlovs and others ask for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision on the election of Mr Igor Zujevs, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members of the Saeima Artis Rasmanis, Andris Bērziņš, Valters Dambe, Armands Krauze, Kārlis Sergeants and others ask for the draft decision to be included on the agenda “On the approval of the Permanent Representative of the Latvian Delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. National associations “All for Latvia!” - 'Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK' is asked to change the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law on the Asylum Act. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Yes!” ) Are you going to talk about or against? ( From the drug depot. A. Elksniņš: Against! ) So, Mr. Andrejs Elksniņš has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U2	Dear colleagues, I call on us not to support this position of the National Alliance and its proposals on today's agenda, because the National Union is not just representatives of national interests, but simply political ponds, which refer to this issue from one political ditch to the other. Last week, the members of the Group of the National Alliance were among those Members who both withdrawn and did not support the task of the Cabinet of Ministers - to provide a full and detailed explanation of who and when, and under what circumstances, and on what means in our country will accordingly be delivered to meet any commitments we have made. And what happens today? The National Association suddenly tries to use the opposition of the Saeima to conduct its relations with the Unity and the Greens/Farmers Union within the coalition. Last week, you did not specifically support the task of giving this type of clarification, and there are no further arguments for it for you. More! You are now trying to shift responsibility on the opposition of the Saeima, that we should take responsibility for the issues referred to in the Saeima, and you are now manipulating the opposition of the Saeima on this matter. I call on you... from among you to the Justice Ministers, from among you to the Speaker of the Saeima finally to stop... come to this gallery and as the first and second state officials to base the particular question and the specific position, giving full explanation of when and what, and under what conditions will be integrated in Latvia. How will this be explained to the public, what will happen? That is not the case: one day to support, as you have already done, for example, the same 250 refugee admissions, and the other day to come and put the issue on the Saeima's agenda. Moreover, honourable colleagues! Proposals for the draft law on asylum for the third reading could be submitted by August 20, because the draft law was open for the third reading. What did you do at that time? You call on yourself the Prime Minister, in his headset, to shout something, you agree with all this, and then you automatically relax and welcome refugees. You're just manipulating now! ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U3	Thus, the Member Andrejs Elksniņš spoke against the draft law being included on the agenda. Does one of the Members want to talk about it? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I From the drug depot. A.Latkovsky: “No one knows how to run it!” ) So, colleagues, please call! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Asylum” on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 10 September! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Defence Financing” submitted by Diņa Liepiņa, Nellija Kleinberga, Juris Viļuma, Mārtiņš Bondara, Artuss Neimina and other Members be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Member Mārtiņš Bondars has applied to speak for. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U4	Madam President, Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. I would like to congratulate Prime Minister Straujuma on the initiative already expressed in February that national protection should allocate two per cent of gross domestic product already in 2018. I understand that the law, of course, provides that it could also allocate these funds to the current version in 2018, but at the same time... At the same time, of course, it sends a very clear signal to our allies that the final rule, however, is that it should be done by 2020. And I am glad that our colleagues at the coalition have heard the calls of the Latvian Association of Regions before the elections, as well as the calls for 2015... ( The Unity of the Group.) ... addressing this issue by 2018 with a defence budget of two per cent of gross national product. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the failure of the Ministry of Defence. If the Prime Minister has already proposed in February - to increase national defence funding to two percent of gross domestic product by 2018, while the Ministry of Defence is unable to include such a simple political issue in the legislative process and to refer us to consideration and adoption, then obviously something is wrong in this ministry. And, of course, the question is: is this the only question in which the Ministry of Defence has slept? Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to follow very closely not only the initiatives with which the Ministry of Defence comes, but also whether there are, however, issues that the Ministry of Defence is unable to deal with and which have fallen asleep. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the referral of this draft law to the committees and a positive examination by the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U5	Thank you. Member Kārlis Šadurskis has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U6	Good morning, very honourable President. Good morning, dear colleagues! I loved Mr Bondara's speech, it's really a King's speech, and it reminded me of the episode from the book "The Little Prince" in Saint-Ecziper: When the little prince went on to travel around the world and came to the royal planet, and the king realized that the little prince would go further, then he appointed him as an envoy. This time too... This submitted bill is very nice in the sense that the Latvian Association of Regions wants to record in it what has already been decided and what will happen due to or despite the efforts of the Latvian Association of Regions. Jurists know very well from the theory of law that, in the case of conflict of laws, budgetary law is a priority. And the draft budget law, which is now submitted by the government to the Ministry of Finance for final development, contains these figures, which are now proposed by the Latvian Association of Regions to be incorporated into the State Defence Financing Act, i.e. 1.4 percent of GDP in 2016, 1.7 percent in 2017 and 2 percent in 2018; it is in the framework law. Consequently, this draft law is completely pointless. I understand that when a certain time has passed, then... In Russia, on the famous Saturday toll, locomotives' depots have all been carried by their logs... And thank you to the Association of the Regions of Latvia for this “caring of logs”. But I have a better proposal for the Association of the Regions of Latvia, how to capture myself not only in the history of humanity, but also in the history of the whole world. Dear colleagues, please submit a proposal for a global gravity law in the Saeima! This law will be in force and will also work when the sun is cool; the solar system will be dissolved, but in the world it will be everlasting... with your party's name and great contribution to world development. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity is a circle of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U7	Thank you. So one Member has spoken for, one against, and we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Financing of State Defence” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 1, for - 61. ( Deputy M. Bondar is covering up.) The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the parliamentary order roll” submitted by the Board of Mandate, Ethics and Application be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There's no objection... Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Let’s vote!” ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendment to the parliamentary order roll”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 7 and for - 2. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Asylum” submitted by the Member Rihards Kola, Raivja Dzintars, Ilmars Latkovska, Imants Debtor and Kārlis Krēsliņš be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Member Richard Kohl has applied to speak for.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U8	Good morning, honourable Chairman of the Saeima and honourable Members. Yesterday, President Juncker announced that the European Commission was proposing that Member States receive an additional 120,000 migrants on a compulsory basis. The issue will be decided at the extraordinary meeting of the EU Justice and Home Affairs Ministers next Monday. The Juncker proposal is a logical follow-up to the introduction of a 'fire-removal' system, which has almost been put forward by the European Union over the last six months as its political driving force. And such a statement was possible because there has been a precedent. The Cabinet of Ministers decided at its meeting on 6 July to accept 250 refugees in Latvia on a voluntary basis within two years, thus ignoring both the national position previously defined by the Saeima and the proposals and objections of the National Association, as well as factually confirming its readiness to comply with the quota voluntarily. Since the adoption of this decision, there has been a sharp and often even deliberate polarised debate about the reception of refugees and migrants in Latvia, neither among experts, politicians, nor among society. This is the first case in the history of Latvia, when it agreed to massive reception of refugees who did not directly seek asylum to Latvia. In the memory of the population, Latvia's historical experience, when 700,000 migrants were forced into the territory of Latvia during the Soviet years, has become bright. We have not managed today with the consequences of this policy on the forced admission of migrants. It is therefore natural that the latest survey data show that more than half of the population is against receiving refugees; only 16 percent support receiving 250 refugees in Latvia. It is not difficult to predict how these figures will change the opinion of the citizens after Juncker's statement yesterday in Strasbourg. Society feels that its views are not heard and taken into account. Decisions are not explained, and what has been promised in the past is ignored. But the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia! The fact that such an important and internationally binding decision is taken by the Cabinet of Ministers - the executive - is, by nature, absurd and incompatible with the principle of division of state power defined in Latvia. The principle of national sovereignty, as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, requires that by voting the state citizens delegate their power and will to perform elected Saeima. It is not for nothing that the Constitutional Court established in 2009 that important issues for the Latvian State have to be decided by the Saeima. This is the so-called theory of materiality, which is an expression of the principle of parliamentary leadership enshrined in Article 1 of the Satversme, and which requires that the most important issues of the state and society must be decided by the legislator, namely the elected representative of the government and the will. The question of the planned reception of refugees and asylum seekers in Latvia is an important issue. The decision already taken by the Cabinet of Ministers has not only created a serious precedent, which aims to significantly restrict the possibilities of the Latvian state to strictly represent its national position in the European Union, but also provides for international long-term commitment and limits violation of certain articles of the Satversme. This decision includes not only the reception of 250 refugees, but also the consequences of the agreement, which also has a stronger impact on Latvia's further development, development of internal policies and foreign policy, the future of the state and its citizens. Therefore, the issue of the massive reception of refugees in the country is a matter of public policy to be decided by the Saeima. In order to prevent systematic error and ensure the implementation of Latvian popular interests and will, we have proposed the draft law “Amendment to the Asylum Law”, which provides that all decisions related to the resettlement of refugees and asylum seekers to Latvia from other Member States of the European Union or from third countries are adopted by the Saeima. I also invite the other Members to remember the principles on which the State of Latvia was built, to remember what responsibilities the Saeima should assume according to the principle of division of state power and what responsibilities the Cabinet of Ministers should assume, and to support the referral of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Asylum” to the Saeima, thus returning the highest power in the hands of the population to decision-making in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U9	Thank you. Member Valery Agešin has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U10	Good morning, dear colleagues! In the context of the draft law tabled, I would like to inform the House of the position of the Group on the reception of refugees in Latvia. First of all, we want to hear Laimdotas Straujuma and the Government's explanation of many issues related to this process - how integration of these people, language training and where they will be accommodated, and how much it will cost Latvian taxpayers. Because, thanks to the government, there is no longer any discussion at present about whether or not to receive refugees, because to receive refugees in the corridors of Brussels, and the government has already taken all conceptual decisions without us and without the general public. Consequently, before SASCAN expresses its position on the possibility of receiving more refugees, we want to get an explanation from the ministers on all these issues. The most important thing is how the process of receiving refugees will be organised. On the other hand, the Cabinet seems to just avoid informing the public about it, and that fact may indicate that the government has no idea about these issues or - on the contrary! - the planned action is known but shameful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U11	Thank you. Mr Shadurski would like to speak on the procedure. Please turn on the microphone!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U12	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that this draft law be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption as a joint committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U13	Are Members in agreement with this proposal? Members agree. But anyway... So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. We must vote in favour of referring the draft law to the commissions. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Asylum” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda, the draft decision on the dismissal of Anna Biksiniece from the position of judge of Latgale regional court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U14	During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 2 September of this year, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Anna Biksiniece from the position of judge of Latgale regional court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. I would like to add that in 2005 Ms. Biksiniece received a letter of recognition from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania and a silver feathers for her contribution to the development of the Latvian judicial system, in 2012 - a mark of honour for her contribution to the development of the Latvian judicial system, the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, as well as the promotion of knowledge and professionalism of officials belonging to the judicial system, and in 2015 - a letter of recognition from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Latvia and gold feathers for her significant contribution to the development of the Latvian judicial system and the performance of long-term and self-free work. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I thank Mrs. Biksiniece for her work and call on Ms.A. Biksiniece to be dismissed from office as a judge of Latgale Regional Court from October 1, 2015 at her own wish due to his retirement.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Anna Biksiniece from the position of judge of Latgale Regional Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft decision is therefore supported. The next item is the draft decision on the withdrawal from the European Affairs Commission of the 12th Saeima Member Igora Zujeva. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the European Commission of the 12th Saeima Member Igora Zujeva! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft decision is therefore supported. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Mr Igor Zajeva, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the 12th Saeima Member Igora Zjeva to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft decision is supported. On the agenda, draft decision on the approval of the Permanent Representative of the Latvian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Permanent Representative of the Latvian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft decision is therefore supported. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U16	Hello, dear colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials””. A little background. On October 30, 2014, the Saeima amended the said law by introducing, among other things, paragraph 26 of Paragraph 1 of Article 4, by which the status of a state official is granted to insolvency administrators. On 21 May this year, the Saeima adopted amendments to this law, which transferred the date of entry into force from 1 July this year to 1 January of the following year. At the same time, amendments were made to this law, which were also adopted at first reading, in order to clarify this procedure... the way in which the activities of officials are developed and manifested directly in the course of insolvency management. It has to be stated that this law cannot be regarded as being exempt from the insolvency law, which also laid down the principle that insolvency administrators are, by their actions, equivalent to state officials. It should be said that the amendments to the said law provide for two cases: to reinforce external control over the information provided and to increase publicity in the work of insolvency administrators. The Commission examined the proposals submitted for the second reading, with a number of proposals being six... I'm sorry, the number of proposals is six, yes. The proposal is a proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U17	Thank you. So Members are in favour. Colleagues, do you have any other views? None. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U18	2. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U19	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U20	Just a few more words on Amendment 2, I am sorry, Madam President. It provides that a further category of officials will be added to the article in question, i.e. the President and members of the Board of Appeal on Industrial Property. It's a new institution. Consequently, that provision appeared on the basis of the basic law. The proposal submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U22	... is related to the same issue and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U24	Proposal No 4 is a proposal from the Member, Sergeant, which provides for special arrangements for the implementation or activation of the provision in question. This proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U25	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U26	Good morning, colleagues! Overall, the situation with the administration of insolvency in the country reminds me of such a situation... makes us all feel like we're all sitting in an old bunny and deciding how to turn this car into Mercedes. You should change the body, maybe the engine, the seats, but what are we doing? We decide: we'll put that one on the graveyard, and everybody will think we're in Mercedes. ( From the medicine, “No one thinks that! ” ) Because this draft law, by which we extended adoption until 1 January, provides that lawyers will no longer be able to work as insolvency administrators. That is the real result! From 331 the administrator 158 is currently lawyers. Why do I come back to this platform and ask you to think about the fact that, first of all, there should be legislation in this area by writing a new law and then thinking about status or inclusion in the judicial system? I just read what I also said... What signals comes from the ministry. On January 18 Minister Rasnačs said in the interview: “The administrators of insolvency proceedings must be included in the professions belonging to the judicial system. If we do not do so, they will have a political impact." A few weeks later, 12 February, the head of insolvency administrators, Mr. Cer, has to find out: “The Minister, 100 days, maintained the intrigue that he intended cardinal changes and improvements in the sector, but suddenly he has changed his mind and actually said that he will not turn to insolvency.” And at the meeting of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government on 2 September this year, Lila Medina, Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, openly told us all that if we introduced this status, then for five years the Ministry of Justice will not touch the sector of administrators. So for five years, we'll still live the way we lived. For this profession, as far as I am aware, the status of public official is not applied in any European country. And just last week, an international congress of lawyers took place in Riga, where representatives of eight Nordic countries took part, and I could also quote a passage from the resolution adopted by this congress, conference or congress: “The alignment of persons carrying out the professional activities of a lawyer to a state official is a gross violation of international human rights, constitutional law and the Charter of Fundamental Principles of the Advocates’ profession, because the status of a state official is, in accordance with law, an obligation on a lawyer to perform and to comply with state duties that are incompatible with the independence and confidentiality of a lawyer’s profession.” I will add that there are currently eight cases in the Constitutional Court, which have been adopted for consideration and in which lawyers contest these norms. And, it turns out, the Ministry of Justice has even created a working group, which, however, has begun to think that changes in this legislation should be implemented as such. I will also allow you to read some conclusions of the Audit of the State Audit Office so that I do not speak from here. That's what happened... On 19 March, these results were presented, and the audit report of the State Audit Office is entitled “Is the national insolvency policy effective?” The first conclusion is that there is no insolvency policy at all in the country, and the Ministry of Justice has not created the conditions for the effective functioning of the insolvency system. There are still figures on how catastrophic the earth is the money that we are recovering, how huge it is - 400 million! - the debts written off which the State would have to obtain, and so on. In addition, the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also addressed this problem, and they have started writing their resolution, one of which reads: “The State does not sufficiently protect the interests of entrepreneurs in insolvency proceedings, and it requires major and cardinal reforms to ensure the recovery of creditors’ funds and to prevent abuse of fictitious creditors.” And I will also mention that as of 2013, Latvia in the World Bank Doing Business study has fallen by 12 positions. Supporting this proposal would in fact mean that the Saeima would finally say that there are major problems in the insolvency sector and that they cannot be solved with one cosmetic improvement, and that there is a need for a cardinal, new insolvency policy and law, otherwise the country will continue to drive...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U27	Mr. Sergeant, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U28	Another 30 seconds... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U29	Do Members agree? ( From the hall: “Let it speak! ” “In fact, it’s enough!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U30	... the state will continue to drive with the zaporoze, Mr Shadursky, but the insolvency administrators and the rogue entrepreneurs will travel as they have done so far with the bellies. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovics: “Let’s not just break traffic rules!” ) And we will not change anything there, learning how much someone has earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U31	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U32	Madam President, very much. Colleagues! When listening to this discussion relating to insolvency proceedings as such, is once again taken over by a person like déj? feeling va. That is, everything has already happened, and not just once. In particular, it is clear to everyone that this process needs to be organised, and stronger public control needs to be put in place. But what is constantly changing is changing some methods or ways to stop these actions. As we remember, ministers have even fallen on this issue (one more precisely), the next one is the references to previous proposals, there is even an extension... Complaints in the Constitutional Court are already such a fashion case. Also, are those who are longer in politics, déj? The feeling could vu be taken into consideration when looking back at the long time in 2005, when there was such interesting cooperation between these bailiffs who also came with posters and said that their profession is special, that there is no need to change anything here. They were even aware of the law that they were inviolable, i.e. that they could not be searched. However, there is still room for insolvency administrators to grow. But let's look at the other side! This issue has a huge impact on our country's economy. The fact that companies are born, developing and also bankrupt is only normal in the market economy. What is a challenge for the insolvency process is to bring these resources back to the economy as soon as possible. In other words, when the company is in insolvency proceedings, these resources are located in a way that does not produce, produce or produce value and therefore does not increase our prosperity. One example for you to understand the extent of this impact is that about one per cent of gross domestic product is written off in tax debts each year through insolvency proceedings. One percent! Likewise, at least twice this money is redistributed under the influence of this process, not to mention the indirect impact that no one can measure, to tell how many investors have around Latvia with a bend just because insolvency proceedings are not organised here. We can only mention it. Also in many fora... and even the Council of Foreign Investors has emphasised that this is a major problem, which is therefore aggravating the environment for this investment. And what do you think it will help? What is the signal we are going to send to investors at the moment, saying: no, we are removing these steps for an indefinite period of time to curb these insolvency administrators? Colleagues, we're all very... In the coming weeks there will be a budget for the Saeima, we will probably all have a lot of ideas about how to share budget money with different priorities, but unfortunately, at times when we need to think about how to earn money, we are missing ideas. However, I will ask you to think about Latvia's investment environment this time, but do not support this proposal and introduce this declaration to the administrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U33	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U34	Dear colleagues, You can agree with what Mr Sergeant said that it really is "cosmetic", but in this case, the proposed decision, how it goes out of this situation, does not really refer to that law. In such a case, the construction consisting of the insolvency law must be discussed. But, specifically on the proposals that have been incorporated into this law, I would like to say that the rule of law... that, in accordance with the provisions of the conflict of interest law, insolvency administrators are subject only to the general restrictions on the interconnection of posts laid down in Article 6 of the law, as this allows insolvency administrators to link the office of a public official to any other post if this is not prohibited by the special law. Consequently, the concerns expressed by Mr. Sergeant about the fact that the jurists will now be expelled from this process have been exaggerated. Given that this provision really increases external control and publicity, as I have already mentioned, this proposal is not as harmful as it is drawn from each other's speakers. I call, however, for Mr Sergeant's proposal not to be supported and for the Commission's opinion to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U35	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U36	Good afternoon! Thank you, Mr Girss, who drew up a real apocalypse, but he did not explain how the introduction of the status of this official would change all this. Has something changed because we now know that we have some bailiffs, which are millionaires? Will it change something that we will find out that one of the leaders of informal groups of insolvency administrators is not one but two belly already? Will the fact that we will find out how much they have lent to each other or that they will not be able to use their wives in their operations with the earth but will be able to use, say, their cousins? It will not change anything until we change our own law! Now, of course, we can all wet our backs: how progressive we are! - We can even make bruises on our back, but nothing will change. All of this will be seen after the New Year when these 150 lawyers, who believe that their office is incompatible, will be forced to give all these things to those who already today all these machinations that we read about or every day... Also this week the current “Daily” special edition was... All this will go on! So vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U37	The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U38	(From the drug: “Speak the Truth!” ) Dear Speaker of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, After hearing the debate, I can make one very interesting conclusion that the amazing level of the parliamentary debate on this issue, where up to one other epithetists descend... But what do you have to say here? Well, it's partly true what Mr. Sergeant says... Well, well. Let's see! Just math... In total there are 300 insolvency administrators in Latvia. 300! Well, let's take 100 so that it's easier for you to... Let's say 100. One third of them is 100... no, even half, yes, there are sworn lawyers. Let's take it, administrators... Administrators... lawyers... Judging from the above proposals, this party - sworn lawyers, administrators - will not participate in insolvency proceedings. Why will they not participate? Because the status of a sworn lawyer is incompatible with that of the insolvency administrator and the state official. A sworn lawyer may not be a public official. ( From the hall: “But the helper of the Member? ”) ) Yes, he is, for example, a person belonging to the judiciary. Person taking part in the proceedings. But a sworn lawyer and a public official - these are two irreconcilable cases. What's going on? There is the opinion of the State Audit Office, according to which insolvency administrators will wind up all those insolvent companies, they will be killed, but they will be held there, the smentli... And as far as they're concerned, they don't! Home and range... The number of proceedings, insolvency proceedings in the country is decreasing. The crisis has now come to an end, as the Unity says, the material influx of insolvency administrators is decreasing. What are insolvency administrators doing with the hands of the Ministry of Justice? They come to the Saeima with an initiative that insolvency administrators should become public officials. Why? Because there is a need to halve the sources of income and to re-allocate these cases which are part of it to the benefit of the rest. A normal proposal, within which insolvency administrators use the representation of the Ministry of Justice - exactly that! - Take care of their sponsors. The simple question is lobbying, which in this case is reflected in the particular draft law... Well, it's not really the bill... The law on insolvency is the law on insolvency. Just a question. But its distribution, honourable politicians, has taken place last year with the whole of your vote, as well as that of the ZZS. I am sorry, Mr. Sergeant, but this is not the law in which this problem needs to be resolved. We submit tomorrow, we are ready to sign a bill with you to exclude this criterion from the insolvency law. And then we will solve the problem fundamentally: we will not allow insolvency administrators to re-allocate this area, we will not allow them to earn millions and do much there, what they do there, and we will fully respect the State Audit Office report. But this law simply does not solve this issue. They are simple, well, kind of forks that you are now trying to put in to make it work, for example, or not. So I really have a call... Well, let everyone vote for this as they think it is necessary, but if we want to prevent insolvency administrators from interfering in the activities of sworn lawyers, if we want to respect the colleges of sworn lawyers not only in Latvia, but in the framework of the entire European Union... They have also sent a letter to all the Members of the Saeima with a position on that... Well, it's a nonsense! Well, there can't be an insolvency administrator, a sworn lawyer in a state official! Well, look at what the administrator is in Germany! Well, there's a really very specific situation. But this bill cannot be solved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U39	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U40	Very short. All of them should be broken not by this law, but by the insolvency law, because it is in that law that this requirement is reinforced. Therefore, at first we have to talk about their law, not try to change the colour of wallpaper, as happens with this draft law. Once again, I would like to call for no support for Mr Sergeant's proposal, because it is not constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U41	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Sergeant's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -13, for -59, for -7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U42	Proposals 5 and 6 have been prepared by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, they regulate the norms of transitional regulations. I call for support to be given to 5. - a proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U44	Proposal No 6
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U45	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U46	All the proposals have therefore been examined. And I call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U47	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law at second, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on detention, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U48	Yes, colleagues, we look at the draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures. The draft law provides for the transposition of a directive of the European Union, which provides that an arrested alien has the right to meet without restriction and on a confidential basis not only with the defence but also with the representative of the diplomatic or consular mission concerned. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U50	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 12 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U51	There are no other proposals regarding the deadline. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 12 October this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Adamsons.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U52	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” (No. 299/Lp12) and see them at first reading. The draft law submitted provides for the following amendments: First. In Latvia implementing the Directive of the European Union, the National Coordination Centre has been established for the Border Guard of the Republic of Latvia, whose tasks include cooperation and exchange of information with analogue coordination centres in all other Member States of the European Union. Second. The submitted draft law provides that in the future the Cabinet of Ministers will set requirements for maintenance of the border zone and order; so far it has been determined by the Border Guard. And the third. In the border band you will be able to apply electronically - including employers! - and there will be no need for paper-based passes anymore. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U54	On behalf of the Commission, I call for proposals to be submitted by 25 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U55	Thank you. There are no other proposals regarding the deadline. So the proposals are due by 25 September this year. The next item is the draft law “On disposal of real estate “Dispečeri” in Taurene municipality, Vecpiebalga municipality, for public needs – for the implementation of the reconstruction project of the Gauja Bridge on the state highway P30 Cesis-Vecpiebalga-Madona 32,3. km’, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U56	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, dear colleagues. I would remind you that forced expropriation of property is possible and permitted on the basis of a separate law (we are looking at the draft such law today). It is permissible for public needs (in this case the implementation of the Gauja bridge reconstruction project, if necessary) and in exceptional cases for fair remuneration. The exception is also the case because, unfortunately, the owner of the real estate has not agreed with the State on the amount of a fair remuneration. It should be noted here that the Saeima does not have to decide on the amount of fair remuneration in the event of a dispute. Such disputes shall be examined in accordance with Section 27, second part of the Law on the Forced Expropriation of Real Estate for State or Public Needs, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Procedure Law. Colleagues! Thus, when examining the said draft law, the Legal Commission of the Saeima also heard the owner's representative, also heard a representative of the Ministry of Transport, who justified the necessity of the said draft law and explained the needs of society. The Legal Commission supported this draft law prior to its examination by the Saeima at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of real estate “Dispečeri” in Taurene municipality, Vecpiebalga municipality – for the implementation of the reconstruction project of the Gauja bridge on the state highway P30 Cesis-Vecpiebalga-Madona 32,3. km’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U58	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U59	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 15 September this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U60	Hello, dear colleagues! So to your attention the bill “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”. These amendments provide for the renewal of compensation costs for farmers for damage caused to non-target species, in particular protected species and migratory species. I'll remind you, for this time of crisis... If I am not mistaken, it was in 2009 when the payment of these refunds was suspended... There has also been a case referred to the Constitutional Court at this time. And the decision of the Constitutional Court, on the basis of which these amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats have been adopted, is appropriate. the payment of these compensations shall be continued. The Commission has examined these amendments and is asking the Saeima, however, to adopt these draft laws as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U61	Thank you. The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. We must therefore vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U62	Please accept at first reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U63	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the time when the draft law at second reading is to be discussed by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U64	Please submit your proposals by 24 September and examine them on 8 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U65	So the proposals are due by 24 September this year. And examination by the Saeima at its meeting on 8 October this year. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the 12th Saeima Member Silvia Simfa's administrative responsibility. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U66	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications has examined the application of the State Revenue Service with a request to agree to the 12th Saeima Member Silvija Šimfas being brought under administrative responsibility according to Section 166.27 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code on the provision of false information in the declaration of the current state official for 2014. The Commission unanimously decided to support the administrative liability of Ms Silvia Šimfas, Member of the Parliament, for the infringement indicated in the administrative minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U67	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U68	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues! I would also like to explain to you, as I explained yesterday at the committee meeting, why I did what I did in this case. The State Revenue Service tells me three cases... for three non-designation cases... in the party, in the political party association... and three non-governmental organisations. I fully acknowledge my error in one of these cases, when I simply missed and fell out of this declaration on several occasions... and I did not enter a position in which I really did work in the social organisation Social Reform Society. In the other four cases, i.e. in the party, in a political party association and in two non-governmental organisations, I did not indicate these posts because I simply did not take up these posts, because I did what I had to do for myself to make the situation de facto a de iure situation. And I think it would be false if I declared these posts. However, I and the people who have faced the same problem do not have the opportunity to influence the other side in order to react to my or our submissions within a reasonable, reasonable time. This applies in particular to organisations which exist only formally, but which no longer actually operate. In my case, for example, the organisation has not responded to... what I have done on my own... and what the organization had to do... And I only learned about this situation now when I had to keep a declaration from a public official. I believe that I have not violated this principle, this rule... that I did not give false information because I believe that I would have given false information and certified it with my signature if I had written these posts in the declaration. But if you look at this situation from both sides, from this administrative rule... if you look from both sides, it turns out that I and the people who are in my situation get into a bureaucratic trap or a bureaucratic deadlock from which there is no way out at the moment. And so at the meeting of the Commission I also drew the attention of representatives of the Register of Enterprises and representatives of the State Revenue Service to the fact that they should work on those norms and procedures in order to improve these norms and procedures so that people would not find themselves in a similar situation to that of me and many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U69	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U70	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I'm not going to protect Silvia Schiff, but... What's the story about? The story is about Article 30 of the Satversme and the weakness of the Saeima. You understand, we are already embarrassing the people with these measures that we are taking here. About Vectyran... We gave him a trial. Everyone has fun, isn't it? Well, what did a man do? The sergeant was then released. I think Article 30 of the Satversme... In particular, I will read this: ‘No criminal prosecution or administrative penalty may be imposed against a member of the Saeima without the consent of the Saeima.’ On the question of prosecution, I think, colleagues, we could not have any doubts, because, politically driven, Members can get into all situations, and the Saeima should really decide to extradite Members for prosecution. But on administrative penalties, I think we should finally review this issue, because these accidents... When a Member comes back to a wall or runs a trolleybus, then it's just stupid for us to spend! The case of Schiffe is also somewhat more complicated. If we're talking about income declarations, remember... If anyone is... well, I hope most have worked for a long time in public administration... At first, there was an opportunity to try to determine, through the SRS, how many salaries you had received during the previous period, and how formal this income was. At the present time, such opportunities are not being given to you, and that is good. You're just in that relevant box... press, yes, and the previous year's income is visible. I think that, in exactly the same way, by closing up the registers - it was a long time to do so! - between the State Revenue Service and the Register of Enterprises... You should also not be given the opportunity to choose whether or not you are a member of a public organisation. These data should be automatically imposed... And if you find that you are in three organizations, public organizations, the board or the like, then you have the opportunity, first of all, to write at the end under the heading “Others”: “I am not there, and I protest against such a Register of Enterprises self-employed!” ( Of course, I say this with irony.) The second option is to go to the Register of Enterprises and pass these formalities, because you may have been on the board of a public organization for years, taking into account your great social activity. And that's why you do this way, too. As I think colleagues, it is necessary to think about how the SRS and the Register of Enterprises can link up these registers so that it is no longer possible for Members to feel themselves and not to record or record a public organisation. And secondly, finally, we need the Saeima, let us say, to get caught up from the conflict with Maris Stein, which lasts for years in the Bureau, finally to face serious matters - to Article 30 of the Satversme, not to entertain the people in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U71	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On consent to the administrative liability of 12th Saeima Member Silvia Šimfas”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 86, for - no, for - 1. The draft decision is therefore supported. Colleagues! The Saeima Presidium informs you that you have received an application from five Members - Mārtiņš Bondara, Inga Bites, Artuss Neimina, Jānis Ruka and Mārtiņš Šics. On the basis of Article 142 of the parliamentary roll of order, the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Financing of State Defence” is requested to be voted, as it is possible that the vote does not correspond to the number of Members present. Members who did not appear in the Chamber may have taken part in the vote. This is stated in the application addressed to the Saeima Bureau. ( The paragraphs are: ‘ Which? ’) ; dep. J.Urbanovich: Surname! ; dep. A.Kimiņš: “Mektyran!” ; from the ZZS fraction: “It’s not true! Neighbours, don't embarrass!” ) On the basis of Article 142 of the parliamentary roll, this request is motivated... ( A loud intersacre.) Are Members... Colleagues! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Do Members agree to the vote? So there are objections. Please call me! We will vote on whether a vote is to be taken on the referral of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Financing of State Defence” to the commissions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 7, against - 60, refraining from - 1. So no vote will take place. ( From the drug depot. A.Kimiņš: “Then you can vote outside the hall! What are you laughing at?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ There’s noise in the grass, and there’s an intermediate call. ” So... No motivation received. Colleagues! I invite you to take the seats in the Chamber so that we can continue to work! Colleagues! And now there is a request from Members on the agenda. Members Andrejs Elksniņš, Jānis Urbanovičs, Valerijus Agešins, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Tutins, Raimonds Rubiks, Mihails Zemļinskis, Sergejs Potapkins, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Marjans Ivanova-Jevsejeva have submitted a request “On the situation in Daugavpils City Municipality”. Colleagues! I call for the Saeima sitting to continue and I call on Members to take their seats in the Chamber. Mr. Latkovsky! Be so kind! Mr. Neighbours! ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “I was silent!” ) Be so kind! Let's keep going! This request is addressed to Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. And so, on the basis of the parliamentary roll of order, we are sending this request to the Appeals Commission. Colleagues, I would like to inform you of the contributions received in connection with Members' questions and of the question-and-answer meeting scheduled for 10 September at 5 p.m. On the question of Member Zarina, Mirska, Raimonds Rubika, Potapkin and Orlovs, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the Inactions of the Ministry of Economics in the Construction Sector” received a written reply which does not satisfy the applicants, but the Prime Minister informed them that he could not attend the oral response. Consequently, this sitting will not take place. Members Inguna Silverba, Aivars Meija, Ringolds Balodis, Silvija Simfa and Arvīds Platoper have asked Members about the implementation of e-health projects, which we hand over to the Minister of Health Guntis Belevičs. Members Inguna Silverba, Aivars Meija, Ringolds Balodis, Sylvia Symfa and Arvīds Platoper have tabled a question to Members on the implementation of the shadow economic measures, which we hand over to Minister for Finance Janis Reiras. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Jānis Tutins and Ivans Ribakovs have asked Members about the faster liberalisation of the gas market, which we submit to the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola. A request for reasons has also been made. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U72	Hello, colleagues! One of the works that have not yet been completed is the liberalisation of the Latvian gas market. The Ministry of Economy is responsible for the further progress of this process. In its words, the Ministry of Economics has stated that it will complete this process even more quickly, even faster than is provided for in the law. It's already amusing. What do we see in reality? Although it is said in the public media that Latvenergo will just be able to close, trading gas coming from Lithuania, in practice such provisions on switching, which should be developed by the Ministry of Economics, have not been developed at all. There is therefore no legal basis to do so at all. Go on. Another "better" situation is that the entire gas market is currently working in an incomprehensible way, as the previous rules on gas trading and use have become obsolete and the new Ministry of Economics has still not developed. What is it - the failure of the Ministry of Economics or the deliberate evil? That's what we're trying to find out now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U73	Thank you. And Members Zarins, Agešins, Arthur Rubiks, Tutins and Ribakovs have asked Members the question “On Collisions in the Construction Sector” that we are referring to Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Thank you. Colleagues, therefore, the agenda of this sitting has been examined and we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, let us listen to the statements. The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U74	Dear Members of the Legal Commission. Request to meet for a short sitting of the Legal Commission in five minutes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U75	The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U76	Good morning! I would like to remind the group leaders and the Bureau that in 15 minutes' time, we will have a Fraction Council in the Red Hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U77	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U78	Dear members of the Sub-Commission on Public Health. Five minutes later we meet in the Social and Labour Commission. Meet the Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U79	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U80	Dear Members, who are elected from Latgale Electoral Region and who want to go together in a week - on 18 September - to visit one of the municipalities in Latgale! The request now, just after the Saeima sitting, for a little - for five minutes - to linger here in the Saeima sitting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U81	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U82	Hello, colleagues! Not registered at the moment: Raivis Dzintars, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Nellija Kleinberga, Romanas Mežeckis, Romanas Naudiņš and Jānis Trupovnieks... was John... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-10-PT12-316-U83	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
