ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Colonel is 9 and now one minute. Today is September 3, and we start the first session of the Saeima autumn session. As you have seen on the agenda approved by the Bureau, the first item on the agenda is the draft decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to present to the Saeima without delay an evaluated report on the reception of refugees from Africa and other refugee regions in Latvia”. It is an own-initiative proposal that was launched at the previous sitting of the Saeima, but it was not finalised for various reasons, and I would remind you that, as a result, the own-initiative proposal was discontinued at the time of the proposal for its inclusion in the next ordinary sitting. According to the Rules of Procedure, one Member could vote... not to vote, but, I am sorry, to speak in favour, one to include this issue. That's what he did. ‘ Mr Bondar spoke about” and Mr Latkovsky spoke about it, but there was no quorum for the vote. That is why we are starting today from the place where we stopped last time - with the vote. Please call me! We will vote for the proposal for an own-initiative decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately submit to the Saeima an evaluated report on the reception of refugees from Africa and other refugee regions in Latvia” - inclusion on the agenda of the next regular meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 23, for - 29, for - 23, for - 29, for - 29, for - 23, for - 29, for - 29, for - 29, for - 23, for - 29, for - 29, for - This item is not on the agenda for the next sitting. ( Medications. Depp. A.Kamiņš: “Deliver to the National Security Commission!” ) Yes, Mr Neighbouring, but according to the Rules of Procedure, Members have the right to speak about the motives for voting after this vote, and therefore the motives for voting are given to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Report on the motives of the vote of the “From the Heart to Latvia”. The Cabinet has supported the voluntary reception of 250 refugees proposed by the European Commission. Apart from the public statement by Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma that the choice is voluntary, however, there was no choice in fact, so there was no more detailed explanation and justification for receiving refugees from Africa and other refugee regions in Latvia, except for the reference to solidarity within the European Union, on the part of the government. Once again, the government made a decision behind closed doors. This means that the government does not trust the people, that there is fear of an open evaluation of the issue at the Saeima, but every fear of an open discussion is based either on self-interest or on a lack of arguments. That is why we want to hear answers to at least two major blocks of questions: how does the government intend to integrate refugees into our society and what financial impact will the reception of refugees have on the national budget? First of all, on integration. In what terms and what will the government do to include refugees and persons with subsidiary status in life and society, if the recent Audit of the State Audit Office found that the necessary preconditions for this were not created with the support of the State? The State Audit Office also indicated that the Government does not even have a clear policy regarding what is necessary to support refugees or persons with subsidiary status, to start life and integrate them into society in Latvia. And this assessment was about a situation where the number of asylum seekers was a few dozen. We asked these questions to the Prime Minister already at the beginning of June. Unfortunately, we did not expect answers to them; we only received an indication that this was a question of responsibility from the Ministry of Culture. Although the government does not have a clear policy and a significant success in the integration of society, it hypocritically claims that we are capable of integrating refugees into our society. Secondly, the additional funding needed. Are there estimates of what additional funding will be required for receiving refugees? What measures and when will this be necessary? What areas will the government be prepared to remove financial resources, taking into account the financial resources available for next year and the budgetary consolidation, which is now taboo? According to government representatives, there will be a need for a new accommodation centre for asylum seekers, as the capacity of the existing ‘Mucenieki’ centre is almost exhausted. Given the capacity of the ‘Mucenieki’ centre and the cost of setting up it, we assume that in today's prices, it will take at least two million euros per capacity to set up a similar centre. It has been mentioned that significant costs could be linked to the assessment of asylum applications and the granting of refugee status. All of this should be added to the direct costs of accommodation and maintenance of asylum seekers as well as salaries of employees; it should also be noted that the state should guarantee these people monthly allowance - 256 euros for adults and 76 euros for children - as well as language learning allowance - 49.80 euros per month. The Minister of the Interior replied to questions from Members of the Group Heart for Latvia on the costs that have to be taken into account also with additional costs - the costs of relocation of these persons, which will also include the expenses of municipalities and which are currently difficult to calculate. It is not currently possible to determine the exact level of costs per refugee. So how can we start implementing and supporting any measure without knowing how much it will cost our taxpayers? And that is at a time when the average amount of pension in Latvia is only 266 euros, when more than 60 thousand Latvians have been recognised as poor, whose income does not exceed half of the amount of refugee benefit! At a time when the country has no money for education, health care, pensions and other priorities understood by every citizen of the country! ‘ From the heart to Latvia” believes that the decision taken by the government not only runs counter to the interests of the state of Latvia and its citizens, but is also another proof of the non-professionality of the government, because the decision was made knowing that there is no adequate infrastructure for such a number of refugees in the country, that integration policy is only on paper, that this decision will also require significant additional financial resources. ‘ From the heart of Latvia” believes that a helping hand for asylum seekers can only be given after the social problems in our own country have been eliminated and our people will be able to live a dignified life. The government has a duty to report to the people and to Parliament on the commitments it has made internationally, but which affect every citizen of our country. A clear response is expected from the public.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U3	Thank you to Member Kūtris. The grounds for vote shall be given to Mr Rihards Kolas.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U4	Mr. Highly Honored Head of the Saeima sitting! Very honourable and highly respected Members! Report by the national association on the motives for voting. Since 8 July, when several members of the National Union added their signatures to the draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to present to the Saeima an evaluated report on the reception of refugees from Africa and other refugee regions in Latvia”, the communication of the Cabinet of Ministers and Prime Minister Laimdotas Straujuma on this issue has changed significantly. During this period, the Prime Minister has taken the initiative and met with representatives of the National Alliance to try to explain the decisions made by the government and to engage in discussions with representatives of the party and - which is essential! - also with the public on various issues relating to the resettlement of refugees within the European Union. At the initiative of the National Association, a meeting was held in which it was possible to participate and watch them later on in the video record for any member of the public to whom this topic seems relevant and relevant. To sum up not only the National Associations, but also several hundred questions sent by society, during the meeting the Prime Minister gave answers to almost 50 different questions. This involvement and initiative is welcome and we call on both the Prime Minister and other representatives of the government to continue implementing this practice and to engage in a discussion with the public in the future as part of this whole process. The Prime Minister has responded to questions of interest to both the National Alliance and the public during the negotiation process, which we really appreciate with a positive sign. It is important to note, however, that not all responses have been complete and well-founded. Unfortunately, in the responses we did not hear whether all the risks related to security, integration and social nature that apply to the reception of refugees in Latvia were assessed, as well as whether the capacity of Latvian institutions to examine and evaluate applications of a large number of asylum seekers had been qualitatively assessed. Similarly, the Prime Minister regrettably did not wish to take into account the proposals made by the National Association - to update and define the meaning of historical circumstances, to strengthen Latvia's exceptional status on this issue in the European Union. Given that the number of humanitarian crises and incidents related to illegal immigration continues to increase, reaching unprecedented levels, and that in the near future, on 14 September, an extraordinary meeting of the Ministers for Home Affairs and Justice of the European Union is expected to be held in Brussels with a view to finding solutions to the current situation, the National Union considers that the seriousness of the situation and its immediate nature require a shift from the further presentation of theoretical and explanatory reports and hearing on real action. Therefore, when considering today's situation in both Europe and Latvia, the National Association abstains from this vote. We believe that the time has now come to step up its efforts to tackle the causes of the current crisis, realising that fighting the consequences will not prevent the crisis. Latvia's commitment to the reception of 250 refugees on a voluntary basis has created a dangerous precedent in both decision-making and implementation processes. On the basis of these developments, the National Association has developed proposals for the draft law on asylum to address one of the problematic aspects of this government decision-making process. The precedent that has been created can make it difficult for the government to resist pressure to re-engage in solidarity mechanisms. Therefore, these kinds of issues - the relocation of asylum seekers to Latvia - should in future be decided by the Saeima, which - let us remind you! - Latvia, in the parliamentary republic, has the highest authority of the state. We also invite both the government and members of the Saeima to seriously consider the potential impact of the current crisis on the social, political and cultural space of Latvia and not only to take into account, but also to seriously strengthen Latvia's national position on the issue of receiving refugees, which was approved in advance by the Saeima. The State of Latvia, as well as other Member States of the European Union, should continue to respect the European Union's mutual treaties and the commitments and responsibilities it has assumed, those agreements that are currently being interpreted by certain countries of the European Union in order to adapt them to the political mood prevailing in their country. We remind you that the Treaty of Lisbon specifically refers to the concept of solidarity, which certain Members in Latvia also like to interpret more easily in order to manipulate decision-making processes in Latvia. We also invite other Members to take into account the urgent nature of the issue and to shift from hearing reports to doing real actions and strengthening the Latvian national position! ( From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “What prevents action?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U5	Thank you to Member Cole. Thus, the possibility of including this draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting with a vote has been rejected, but I understood that the Member, Neiminina, had a proposal to refer the draft decision to the National Security Commission. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Exactly!” ) The Saeima Bureau, on the other hand, has received a letter signed by the Chairman of the Group of the National Alliance, by which he withdraws his application for referral of the draft decision to the Foreign Affairs Commission as well as to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. So at the moment, the only proposal that we have to decide on is a transfer to the National Security Commission. Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. Under the parliamentary roll, one Member may speak in favour, one against the transmission of this draft decision to the committee. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. He's obviously going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U6	Mr. Many! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I call on you to support our proposal to refer to the National Security Commission the question of receiving refugees from North Africa and the Middle East in Latvia, because this is above all a security issue. The National Security Commission could help the government to remedy the consequences of the government's failure to communicate. As you fellow Members remember, the government initially talked about Latvia not taking refugees at all, then talking about receiving 250 refugees. And now this communication has changed - it is said that the European Commission's policy on refugees is wrong. The result of all this is that sociology shows that most of Latvia's population is against the reception of refugees and that most of Latvia's population do not believe that the government is able to deal with the issue of refugees. By submitting this question to the National Security Commission, we could expect at least equivalent answers that the National Association expected from Laimdota Straujuma almost a month ago. And I hope that these responses would be even more extensive and clearer and that Mrs Āboltiņa, the Head of the National Security Commission, would have the opportunity to explain this position further to the public. Secondly, putting this issue before the National Security Commission would be an opportunity to drive two very important policies: immigration policy and integration policy. Immigration policy has been stuck in the Ministry of the Interior for some reason. It has been stuck in the Ministry of the Interior for years, either because one of the coalition's partners is very much in favour of any immigration policy, or because it is essentially a cross-sectoral issue. But it has never been dealt with as a cross-sectoral issue. And therefore, the possibility for the National Security Commission to raise this issue, or to put it more precisely, to a successful end, would be enough and important, and it is important, because without this issue, there is no possibility of receiving any refugees. The second policy that it would be important to adopt is integration policy. Integration policy is now in the hands of a politician who, on the one hand, does not support the reception of 250 refugees but, on the other hand, makes very welcome words to the government for the reception of 250 refugees. Then, National Association, be clear with your ministers, please! And finally. Whether because of war or because of climate change, or because of the lack of access to resources (e.g. drinking water), refugee issues are only expanding annually. We are seeing this both in the European Union and in other parts of the world and in regions, and Latvia will inevitably face this issue on a much broader or scale. In 2017 there are municipal elections, in 2018 - national elections, Saeima elections, and in 2019 - European Parliament elections. Colleagues, do you really want one question to dominate this election: reception or non-receipt of refugees in Latvia? In order not to do so, I call on you to vote in favour of the National Security Commission being the Commission that reviews the Cabinet report and is able to legitimise the work of the government on these issues. Thank you. ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U7	Thank you. Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš. She wanted to speak against the referral of this draft decision to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U8	Yes, good morning, honourable colleagues! Such a very strange proposal, which contradicts everything that colleagues from this troupe have spoken about and what the motivation has been to prepare this draft decision with the task of the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to quote Mr Kūtra: to make an honest assessment, because so far all of this has happened behind closed doors, and so the Saeima is the institution in which it could be evaluated openly, to listen to the officials both in the commissions sittings, which are open and then in the Saeima sitting. The meetings of the National Security Commission are closed. A.Elksniņš: “It is not true, it may also be revealed.” ), which means that Mr Bondara offers to go from one closed door to another closed door. Then someone will once again inform the public about the failed or less successful communication that is being accused of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers... Oh, yeah! Mr Bondara has already said: one person will be informed! Again the same way - from the same party, and again you will be able to say, “She doesn’t already say everything.” But if the sitting has been closed and contains such information... spoken about information containing a state secret, then perhaps it will not be possible to speak openly about it either. And, Mr Bondara, you know very well that every member of the Commission has the right to put and see matters relating to the Commission's competence. And also questions about refugees and what concerns our security in different areas are regularly discussed in the sitting, and that will be the issue. But the specific draft decision, the purpose of which was to allow the Saeima to speak openly about what we will then do with refugees... And I would like to inform you right now that it is... that the Commission is already working at the level of officials, which has many ministries, and is not only looking at the issues you have mentioned on immigration and integration. There are also separate committees in the Saeima, which could address these issues carefully and look at what is then done in this commission led by officials. Since your recommendation - to hand over this draft decision to the National Security Commission - is, in my opinion, contrary to the objective expressed by the applicant, including yours, why such a draft decision has been drawn up. Well, there may already be, of course, those who know the roll of order and those who know what the National Security Commission is composed of, perhaps that objective is simpler. The National Security Commission shall be composed of representatives of all political forces and political groups. And there are three against three in this commission, which could lead to interesting votes on one of the draft decisions. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš' intermediate calls.) So if that's the goal, then be honest and say it! But in any case, discussions about refugees in the Saeima will take place in various commissions and, I hope, here, too, from the tribunal, and the National Association has also prepared a bill that such issues should be dealt with in Parliament in the future. The Prime Minister has said in his public communication that she supports it. So we will have the opportunity to find out and explain to the public why we accept or do not accept and how this will affect the people of Latvia. So I call for this particular proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U9	Thank you. One Member has spoken in favour, one against handing over this own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - to the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the proposal for an own-initiative decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately submit to the Saeima an evaluated report on the reception of refugees from Africa and other refugee regions in Latvia” – to the National Security Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 31, for - 24. This draft decision has not been forwarded to the Commission. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal should be considered rejected. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “What a surprise!” ) Ladies and gentlemen, before we start to discuss the agenda of the approved sitting, we must decide on possible amendments to it. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from the Legal Commission to amend the agenda of today’s sitting and to include a draft decision on the dismissal of Tatjana Bormane from office of a district (city) judge. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking for another amendment to the agenda of today's sitting and to include a draft decision on the appointment of Agra Dreimanis as a judge of a district (city) court. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Commission is asking for an amendment to the agenda of today's sitting and to include a draft statement entitled ‘On renewal of the mandate of the 12th Saeima Member of the Inga Betes’. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Presidium of the Saeima has also received a letter signed by the Prime Minister Laimdotas Straujuma, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers revokes the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No 327/Lp12). The draft law is therefore removed from the reports of the Presidium of the Saeima on draft laws submitted. And now, honourable colleagues, we continue to examine the approved agenda. The next item on the agenda for today's sitting is: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On the approval of the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate, while Members elected from the list of Greens/Farmers’ Union candidates in the Zemgale constituency fulfil their ministerial duties”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U10	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 8 July 2015, the commission received an application from the 12th Saeima Member Raimonds Bergmanis regarding the appointment of the Member's mandate for the period of office of the Minister. According to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the parliamentary roll, the next candidate to the Member's mandate from the list of candidates of the Greens/Famiends in Zemgale electoral district is Guntis Kalniņš. On 8 July 2015, the commission received an application from Member's candidate Gunta Kalniņš, in which he agreed to take over the mandate of Member of the 12th Saeima for a period of time, while the elected Members from the list of Greens and Farmers' Union candidates in the Zemgale constituency fulfil their ministerial duties. The Commission examined the application of 12th Saeima Member Raimonds Bergmanis and the application of Member’s candidate Gunta Kalniņš and unanimously decided to direct the Parliament’s draft decision to the sitting “On the approval of the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate as long as the elected Members from the list of Green and Farmers’ Union candidates in the Zemgale constituency fulfil their ministerial duties”.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U11	Thank you. I invite Gunti Kalniņa to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! When I take office as a Member of the Saeima, I swear before the people of Latvia... solemnly promise to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform its duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U13	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on Gunta Kalniņa 12. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for as long as Members elected from the list of candidates for Greens/Famiends in the Zemgale constituency fulfil their ministerial duties”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Member Kalniņa and I call for a seat in the Chamber. (Applause) The next item is the agenda for the renewal of the 12th Saeima Member's mandate. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U14	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application announces that, in accordance with the second and third paragraphs of Article 2 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, and with the application of Inga Bite on 3 August 2015, the renewal of the Member’s mandate, which she had placed on parental leave, restores the mandate of her Member. Ivars Freezers terminates his duties as a Member, who, according to the first paragraph of Article 5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, was part of the Saeima from the list of Riga electoral district of the Association of the Regions of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U15	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ivars Freeer for his work at the Saeima. (Applause) Depp. I.Brīver is served with flowers.) And I call on Members of Inga Biti to take a seat in the Chamber. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Inga!” Depp. M.Bondars serves the depot. I.Bitei flowers.) Dear colleagues, The next item is the draft decision on the release of Tatjana Bormane from the office of a judge of a district (city) court. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U16	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of Saeima examined the draft decision on the release of Tatjana Bormane from the office of a judge of a district (city) court with effect from 7 September 2015 and unanimously supported the said draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, the Saeima requests to support the draft decision of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Tatjana Bormane from the office of a district (city) judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the appointment of Agra Dreimanis as a judge of district (city) court. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U18	The Legal Commission of the Saeima examined the draft decision of the Saeima “On the appointment of Agra Dreimanis as a judge of a district (city) court”. Having heard the information prepared by the Court Administration and the Ministry of Justice and having heard the applicant, he unanimously decided, after hearing him, to support the said draft decision of the Saeima. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft decision of the Saeima ‘On the appointment of Agra Dreimanis as a judge of a district (city) court’.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Agra Dreimanis as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the University of Banks” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Assistance provided by the State” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention and that the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention be made responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Vidzeme University Council” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and that the Commission of State Administration and Local Government be responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” be referred to the Legal Commission and the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and that the Legal Commission be responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of the part of real estate at Augusta Deglava iela 37, Riga, for public needs – for construction of the section of the East Motor from Ieriķu iela to Vėlvas iela” be handed over to the Legal Commission and that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of the part of real estate Ieriķu iela 10A – for public needs – for construction of the East Highway section from Ieriķu iela to Vėlvas iela” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be transferred to the Legal Commission and that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of the part of real estate in Gustava Zemgala Street 14, Riga, for public needs – for construction of the section of the East Motor from Ieriķu Street to Vėlvas Street” be handed over to the Legal Commission and that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of real estate at Vestienas Street 17, Riga, for public needs – for the construction of the East Highway section from Ieriķu Street to Vėlvas Street” be handed over to the Legal Commission and that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Gustava Zemgala Street 13, Riga, for public needs – for construction of the section of the East Highway from Ieriķu Street to Vėlvas Street” be submitted to the Legal Commission and that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Population Register Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the execution of liquidation as a means of enforced influence” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the protection of semiconductor topography presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications” be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that it be the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Intangible Cultural Heritage” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Social Security” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the responsible commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Finally, the Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers "On the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change" be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be designated as the responsible commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next section of the agenda for today's sitting is entitled "On an own-initiative proposal". And this own-initiative proposal is the draft decision on the rejection of the collective initiative "Decrimination of Marijuana" presented by 10 117 Latvian citizens. According to the parliamentary roll of order... According to the parliamentary roll, is there a question: do Members oppose the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Members shall not object. Consequently, according to the Rules of Procedure, this draft decision, the own-initiative proposal, is on the agenda at the end of today's sitting. The next item is on leave. And Member Ainārs Mežulis has asked him to be granted unpaid leave on 3 September, so today. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave, and today I am reporting to you at the Saeima sitting on this decision by the Saeima Bureau. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis. I would remind you: since the candidates are two, we have an open vote with voting marks.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U20	Good afternoon, honourable Chairman of the sitting, honourable colleagues! A member's seat on the Board of Fiscal Discipline has become vacant. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has received applications from Members for two candidates - Andy Ūbel and Tāl Laizana. In its sitting, the Commission listened to the candidates and found that they both met all the requirements of the law and, by voting in the Commission, they shared their votes in a similar way - none of the two candidates prevailed over the other. And so today, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is taking the draft decision on the approval of both candidates, and this issue needs to be distinguished today, as colleagues, by the parliamentary sitting, voting openly on both candidates. One candidate may be elected. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “They could change!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U21	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor will be held for Ms Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U22	Dear colleagues, Today, we have the decision to make a choice for one of the candidates for the office of Member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. And I hope that the candidate will be chosen responsibly - not after the party that has nominated him, but after his education, knowledge and professional experience. The main task of the Board of Fiscal Discipline is to monitor fiscal discipline, and the question of what kind of advice we want is essential. As one of the members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) said significantly at the meeting: "It is difficult for a position-driven candidate: if he expressed his opinion on the government, he may not be elected." Is it really not important for us, the legislators, to hear an objective, independent opinion from the executive? ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) I think everyone would benefit if the Board of Fiscal Discipline had brave people with their own opinion, because in fact the Board is like a guardian, a housekeeper, who monitors whether the decisions taken are in line with the long-term policy of the state, the sustainable development of Latvia, and we would like everyone to be able to rely on the guard of the house. We believe that the Council member should be a high-level professional with academic education, knowledge in the economy, financial system and budgeting; he should also be a patriot of Latvia, a defender of the interests of our country, every taxpayer, citizen, businessman. I think it's Far Lizzan. In particular, I would like to highlight his academic knowledge: two degrees of master of science (in economic sciences and engineering), 10 scientific publications (including the factors influencing the development of venture capital and the development of alternative financial instruments in Latvia), participation in many research projects (including the involvement of society in social innovation processes in order to ensure the sustainable development of Latvia). And all this is combined with the know-how of the practitioner, which has been acquired in the management of both the Securities Market Commission of the Republic of Latvia and large companies. His knowledge and experience has been invested in Riga Technical University, participating in several research projects and teaching such subjects as “Financial Markets and Investment, Financial Risks and the Business Economy”. I would like to emphasise in particular: the vote on Far Laizana is not only a support for his candidacy, but also a signal to our academic forces that the Saeima is also important for the opinion and advice of these academic forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U23	Thank you. The floor will be discussed for Member Karl Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U24	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with Mrs Silver that a member of this council must be professional and politically neutral. And fortunately, the roll of order of the Saeima allows every Member to speak twice in the debate. That is why I want to ask Mrs Silver (and she will have the opportunity to answer): is it true that Tālis Lizāns has been a candidate for this Saeima from the list of heart for Latvia in the elections to this Saeima? Thank you. ( A certain group of Members applauds its unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U25	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Ilze Viņķele.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U26	Colleagues! Indeed, it is a shame to listen to Mrs Silver's rhetoric, because the way she described, without giving her name, Andy Ūbel, is quite regrettable, because, in principle, part of the size that you attributed to Ūbel as a possibly inappropriate candidate, you can apply to yourself completely. Your career is very similar to a certain moment: you have also been a Deputy State Secretary, have you not, in the Ministry of Finance? ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) This means that in principle you disqualifyd a person according to his professional performance as an official. Second. I don't know what connection Mr. Ubel has with our party. None, at least as far as I am concerned! And his professional quality has been good enough to make him a world of... The World Bank on the representative of Latvia. He has worked as a advisor to the Board of the World Bank, advised and provided advice on matters in our region as well. Let us, therefore, perhaps draw one conclusion from this debate: its division into positions and opposition sometimes becomes illogical and actually discriminate against people in candidates' assessments of professional characteristics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U27	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U28	Hello, colleagues! Listening to this debate, I have a proposal: so that we do not sit back on really important things here... for people on very important posts, then in the future, let the candidate on such posts - even more so if there is some choice... let these people come and also give their own proposal for 5 minutes... with their vision as to why they claim this post. ( Sounds like noise, intermediates.) Let me explain why, colleagues! Because at the moment - I am sure - most of you will vote for the people they have not even seen, let alone their professional skills, so my proposal would be that in future these people, for whom we are voting for such positions of responsibility... So the next thing I can tell you is that we need to change the Rule of Conduct. My proposal is as follows: the following procedure must be introduced. It would be very important that those people on whom we will vote come here and tell us about their vision of how they will carry out this post. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš is a better friend.) The next very important post, which will be the chair of the Public Service Regulatory Commission. A very important job, given that at the moment... that liberalisation of the gas market will need to be carried out immediately. And I would very much like to see a man standing here who will be able to convince him that he will be able to monitor it successfully. ( From the drug depot. I. Viņķelis ir dep. E.Smilten intermediates.) Therefore, my proposal, colleagues, is to make such changes and make these people be here, give them the opportunity to come, plant themselves in front of them and show themselves to be fit for office. Thank you. Not to speak in the back, like now!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U29	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U30	Hello, honourable Members! I would like to remind you that the Board of Fiscal Discipline is an independent institution, and that is why! - the more academics there will be, the better this independence will also be realized. Mr. Farmel is certainly an educated specialist. He is the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance as far as I understand he has been, on several occasions he has also spoken to our Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) with serious opinions, but if this is the way in which the expert in that way is appointed to work at an independent institution, then this institution immediately becomes a nanaj great [Red]. danci, not as an independent institution. ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) Consequently, I would always be able and prefer to work in this kind of structure precisely for academic power. And here, I mean, Angela. - Red.] the master has all the possibilities to demonstrate his abilities, skills and to ensure the operational independence of the Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U31	Thank you. The name of Member Inguna Silver, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U32	It's very short. I'm surprised that you can hear what I don't say. I haven't denied any professional qualifications at any time. What I stress is that we believe that these academic qualifications are more important. And I call on Mrs Viņķele to ask Commissioner Karlis Šadurskis, what answers Mr Ūbelis gave at the meeting of the Commission, and everything will be absolutely clear. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U34	I will answer your question...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U35	I'm sorry, you're done! You're done, you're not given a name. There will be a debate on the name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš. ( Medications.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U36	Dear colleagues, Of course, I was not going to speak, but I was surprised by Mr Zarins: you are not a Member of the first term. The question of the nomination and application of this official was dealt with by the Fragment Council, which includes both the positions and the opposition representatives, and which therefore has an equivalent right to nominate candidates for both the position and the opposition. As a group, you have the right to listen to any of these candidates in your group, as often as you wish, and to ask what questions you consider necessary. Your representatives work in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, where this decision is taken, where they take part in the vote and therefore they can also assess these candidates. And don't deceive the audience here about coming to this platform and planting in front of... My vision... Read the Rules of Procedure again - who has the right to speak from this platform and who has the right to represent this opinion. But Mrs Silver did not answer that question, of course. It is easy to criticise Mr. Ubel once again, but I think we really go out in such a huge "horn hunt": a man who has worked professionally in the ministry - and then in the Ministry of Finance led by many and various political forces! - and whose competences have been assessed at the World Bank level (and not by their political affiliation, but by their professional powers!) He is suddenly being persecuted because he is being brought up by a coalition. Well, I'm sorry, maybe we'll look professionally!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U37	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U38	As I have been working in opposition all these years, both the Rally of Order and the Constitution - they have been my permanent allies who have been here with me all the time, stand in the drawer. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “But you’re reading!” ) So I know the Rally of Order very well. What I offer: if we were already able to change the Constitution, then perhaps we can also change the Rule of Conduct in such a way that there is such a possibility. And that was also my proposal. All the more so, I just justified... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. K. Šadurskis: “The proposal is submitted with the signatures of five Members!” ) A proposal to think about it for colleagues, because I will not be able to do it alone, of course. And if you're so worried... As far as I can see, your great concern goes beyond the other posts that will have to be divided again. Perhaps it is so important for you to have someone important to you there, you need a person, not really to come here openly and show your competence before us - your competence or something else. I don't know why you have to hide it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U39	The debate is closed. Is there any more to be added on behalf of the Commission? There is nothing to add. As I said, this issue must be resolved by voting with ballot papers, so I give the floor to the Member Ingmars Līdak, who will speak on behalf of the vote counters.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U40	Dear colleagues, don't be so quick! About 20-25 minutes will probably be needed while we are preparing the vote, because this is a more difficult vote: this is an open vote, so with all the results being recorded immediately in the minutes and so on. That's one. Second. I remind you: please be careful, however, to mark each of the candidates, so that there is no newsletter that is no longer valid. Thank you. I ask you to take a seat in the room.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U41	Thank you. Honourable Members! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when the vote is closed, you will be called in the Chamber. Thank you. ( Votes are being put to the vote.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U42	Votes can be... Dear colleagues, three more minutes will be allowed to vote... four. Quite a number have not yet voted. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U43	Dear colleagues, There is information from the voters that they have already done their job. I asked for Members outside the room to also know that we are continuing the sitting. And so I recall that we are currently looking at the draft decision on the approval of a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. A member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline shall be elected by open ballot with voting marks. And now in the name of the vote counter, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U44	So, dear colleagues, hello! Minutes of the sitting of Saeima Vote Meters No.13 - on the results of voting, electing a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline on 3 September 2015, Riga, Saeima House, election sign No. 11. In total 114 electoral marks have been produced. 90 electoral marks have been issued to Members. There are no broken and replaced electoral signs. The remaining 24 electoral marks have been deleted. 90 ballot marks have been removed from the ballot box. 84 electoral marks have been recognised as valid. 6 electoral marks have been declared invalid. There is no vote against all candidates. So the votes cast on the candidates were divided as follows: Andžs Ūbelis: 51 - for, 33 - against; Tālis Laizāns: 33 - for, 51 - against. Result of the vote: Angis Ūbelis was elected as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U45	Thank you. Congratulations to Andy Ūbel on her new job and late success! Ladies and gentlemen, before we start to examine the continuation of the agenda, I informed you that the Saeima Bureau had received five Members - Āboltiņa, Berzina, Barča, Zarina and... ( From the drug: “And another! ” ), another... I can't read it, honor! But here is the proposal: to continue the sitting without interruption until the entire agenda is examined. ( From the drug: “Yes! ” “That’s right!” ) Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. So the sitting is held without interruption until the entire agenda is examined. And, honourable colleagues, we could also decide at once on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. Thus, the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Members Krauze, Serganta, Dambe, Skujiņa, Berzina, Vacana, Līdaka, Siliņš, Kalniņa and Vectiran to include in the agenda of today's sitting the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Vectiran from the Legal Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Saeima Bureau also received an application from Member Sergeant, Krauze, Dambes, Skujiņa, Berzins and other ten Members in total that the agenda of the meeting should be amended and included in the draft decision ‘On the withdrawal of Mr Jurs Vectyrans from the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit’. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Saeima Bureau has also received a proposal from ten Members, including Sergeant, Krauze, Dambes, Skujiņa, Berzins and others, to include on the agenda of today's sitting the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Saeima Bureau has received a proposal from ten MEPs, including Krauze, Sergeant, Dambe, Skujiņa, Berzin, Wuzana and others, to amend the agenda of today's meeting and to include a draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Jur Vectir in the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Bureau of the Saeima has received a proposal from ten Members, including Sergeant, Krauze, Dambes, Skujiņa, Berzina, Vucana and others, to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include a draft decision on the election of Gunta Kalniņa, Member of the Saeima to the Legal Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Saeima Bureau has received a signed request from ten Members - Sergeant, Krauze, Dambes, Skujiņa, Andra Berzina, Vacana, Līdaka and others - to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include a draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Gunta Kalniņa to the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Bureau of the Saeima has received a signed application from ten Members - Kleinberg, Betes, Ruka, Šica, Viļuma, Neminija and others - to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include a draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Juris Viļuma from the Legal Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from ten Members - Cleinberg, Betes, Ruka, Šica, Viļuma, Neighma and others - to change the agenda of today's meeting and to include a draft decision on the election of Member Juris Viļuma to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Bureau of the Saeima has received a request signed by ten Members to change the agenda of today's sitting and to include a draft decision on the election of Ms Inga Betes to the Legal Commission. This application was signed by Members Bite, Ruks, Schics, Kleinberg, Viļums, Kaimiņš, Bondars and others. Can we support this... Is that so? Members shall not object to such amendments to the agenda. The order of business has been amended. The Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from ten Members - Bite, Bondara, Ruka, Šica, Kleinberga and others - for inclusion on the agenda of today's meeting of the draft decision on the election of Member Inga Bite to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. In addition, the Presidium of the Saeima has received an application from Member Ritvars Jansons with information that he withdraws his signature under the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the 3rd reading of the draft law “Law on Asylum” (No242/Lp12) until 17 September 2015. As a result, the number of applicants is less than ten and this item is therefore automatically removed from the agenda of today's sitting. And now, honourable colleagues, we are starting to look at the agenda that has now been updated. The next item is the draft law on "Amendments to the Transparency Act", third reading. On behalf of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government - Member Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U46	Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined and prepared for the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disclosure of Information”. The draft law is designed to take over the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the re-use of public sector information. Consequently, appropriate amendments to the Transparency Act are also required. No proposals have been received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U47	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Information Transparency Law” in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U49	The next item is "Review of draft decisions". Draft decision “On consent to the administrative liability of 12th Saeima Member Karl Sergeant”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “Let’s shame and return!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U50	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Commission of Mandate, Ethics and Application has received and examined an application from the State Police Police Police Police Police Administration for Traffic Security with a request to consent to the administrative liability of 12th Saeima Member Kārlis Sergeants. Karlis Sergeants has violated paragraph 91 of the Road Traffic Regulations, not giving way to a vehicle approaching the right. The Commission decided to support the administrative liability of Mr. Karl Sergeant, Member of the 12th Saeima, for the infringement indicated in the administrative protocol. Please support the draft decision of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U51	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate is Mr Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U52	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! At the moment, this is a matter that concerns a number of our colleagues in the past and I did not want to talk specifically about Karl, but I wanted to talk about the principle. And even though the Saeima has broken through over the years on this issue, there is one thing that has brought a slightly different view of the question about the administrative responsibility of the leaders of our people here. These are, in particular, the recommendations of the anti-corruption organisation of the European Union, GRECO, which recommend that we give up these privileges, namely the leaders of the people and the judges. This issue is also addressed by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. In essence, representatives of all political groups have agreed that this issue is being addressed, and we review Articles 28 and 29 of the Satversme. So it is a reminder that we will have to return to this issue in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U53	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “Tell me you are not guilty, Gerhards was guilty!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U54	Hello, dear colleagues! I, a reasonable thing, am calling for myself to be sent to punishment. But at the same time, I would like to use this platform and turn to some Latvian supermarkets with such a barrack in their parking lot! I would advise them to go and look at "Alfu" or "Spici" where there are really parking places arranged with road signs. For at the moment you drive the marked arrows in the parking lot, but someone else thinks he's going (from the hall depot. A.Kamiņš: “The Maxima, Kārlis, was!” As you wish, then, the right hand law, of course, does not matter. So that's my call. But, of course, I am calling for myself to be put to execution.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U55	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “For consent to the 12th Saeima Member Karl Sergeant to administrative liability”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015” (registration No. 187/Lm12). On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U56	Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission has prepared a draft decision in which we invite you to agree to a reallocation of appropriations of around 1.3 million from Expo 2015 which was not used to make the annual payment to the European Space Agency. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has supported this proposal. I also call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U57	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Ms Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U58	Dear colleagues, I am aware that it is very beneficial not to want to listen to and go into the reallocations of appropriations once again, stating to one of the positions that the reallocation of financial resources from one programme to another is a normal practice and to assume that this has been and will be, and that it will already remain. However, this time I call on you to look into these documents, which the executive is proposing to us to approve. And do you, Members, really agree that the executive regards us as voting machines, because everything has already been decided and divided? What, then, is the role of the Saeima in deciding on the budget and reallocations of appropriations, if the executive has not only decided everything long ago, but has already done so? Dear Members, You are now being offered a formal vote and confirmation of what the government has already decided in February. We allow to re-allocate money from the planned resources for Latvia's participation in Expo 2015 in order to pay the membership fee to the European Space Agency, also for the next year 2016. ( From the drug depot. A.Lejiņš: “It’s all right!” ) I note that the decision to re-allocate 1.3 million to the 2016 membership fee for the European Space Agency was made already on 17 February of this year, and furthermore, the Ministry of Education and Science hastened to inform the European Space Agency, which also issued a budget and sent it in February. Needless to say, the indicative payment schedule of the contract provides for payments to be made on an annual basis, with the payment being divided into three parts. But we can make two payments in one year! Why not? None of the documents submitted contains a line of reasons why we should make such advance payments as are of benefit to the State, to the taxpayers. But who is interested in it? The question of whether there have been alternative offers for Expo 2015 money re-allocation has not been answered. If so, where are they? Where can the lists of these proposals be seen? Members do not even want to ask these questions. And in such a regime, I think it would be only fair for taxpayers to admit that the issues of the state budget have long been not the issues discussed in the Saeima, but they are decided and implemented by the executive. I think that what the representative of the National Alliance said is that the Saeima is the highest decision-making power and that decisions must be taken here... I think continue to live in illusions that you continue to make decisions here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U59	Thank you. There will be a debate on the name of Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U60	As Mrs Silverba said, such support for Latvia's participation in the European Space Agency as a state of the European Union should, of course, be supported and probably included in the next year's budget, if this is already the case in 2016. And probably some scientists who work in this programme benefit from this participation in the European Space Agency. But it seems to me that we often divide Latvia into two parts: one is Riga and about 100 kilometres around Riga, and the other is Latvia. And just like space... As it turns out, space starts 100 miles [100 km] above our heads. And sometimes it really feels like this space is closer than - well, call it, no matter what - Latgale, Kurzeme... And so, of course, these unforeseen funds that entered the budget... In my opinion, like Mrs Silverba, she said, by the way, maybe it should be assessed how to invest differently... What really urgent... urgent needs... For example, the Union of Greens/Farmers is responsible for the agricultural sector, and we know now, for example, that because of the unexpected arrival of swine fever, our farmers are suffering losses, and perhaps we could help them in this way. There could, of course, be other proposals, but it seems that they have not been assessed. Therefore, I would like to ask a rhetorical question at the end: what is more important for our government: what starts 100 kilometres outside the territory of Riga, who is above our heads 100 kilometres, or maybe some little space that forms around one western city of Latvia? ( From the hall: “The question is on the spot! ”) ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U61	Thank you. The floor will be discussed by Mr Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U62	Contrary to what my fellow Members have said that this is another example of the fact that the executive body ignores the decision-making body, that the priorities have not been properly distributed, it seems to me that the opposite is the case this time. I would like to remind my colleagues that, at the time when it was known that this Expo Milano money would be released, I was the chairman of the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commission, and I was the one who publicly called on the Prime Minister to re-allocate this money directly to this space programme. And I am pleased that my call has been heard and that it will really be done today. So that's a great success. And why did I ask you to do that? For, you see, colleagues, if we always talk about the fact that we do not have money for Kurzeme, Zemgale, Vidzeme, Latgale and now suddenly there is money for space, then in principle we need to understand the main reason why this money does not exist. Because this sustainable thinking has not been... still there is no vision in the country of how to get into wealth. And what did I want to remind you here? The fact that space is now the same as the sea in the 19th century. So that's the importance... So all these high technologies, the possibilities for further operations, they will be used as the sea in the 19th century - trade, communications and so on. Now it's space! And if you remember, there was such a popular saying in the 19th century: “Drink, Latvians, in the sea, store your money in a bunch!” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš is excitedly laughing.) Here is the same opportunity now for space. This is the same opportunity, and I am pleased that we will use it, but not let it pass. I call for this proposal to be supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U63	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U64	Colleagues! I would like to remind you that this discussion on the transfer of money to the European Space Agency - this is nothing new because it has been discussed for a long time. This was discussed at the time of the previous budget and, thank God, this decision has been taken, and this funding has been found. The space that some have spoken about is 100 kilometres high, but in fact it is much closer, because it is not about some abstract things, but here it is about concrete projects where Latvian entrepreneurs, either from Daugavpils or from Dagda or any other city, will also be able to start. A. Elbow’s mids.) where they work and create these products with high added value, thus also developing production and possibly creating new jobs. It is therefore to be welcomed that such an idea has been supported, and the Ministry of Education and Science will also continue to drive this matter forward. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U65	Thank you. The floor in the debate is for the Member, Janis Vacāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U66	Hello, colleagues! In addition to what Ivars Zarins spoke about, I would just like to mention two things. Firstly, with this reallocation, Latvia will finally be able to put an end to the dishonour that our country had suffered with regard to the European Space Agency when the Treaty was signed, Latvia was committed to making payments for this year already until March of this year, but we did not put their money into the budget, and so far this payment has not been made. It is, therefore, about the long-term nature of these payments (from the drug depot. I. Silver: “Every year must be paid!” ), and indeed, as Mrs Silver has already said, they must be done every year. The second case is about what this decision is impacting on Latvia and how it affects Latvia. This is not just about scientists, and it is about some sort of possible distribution of millions among scientists. In that study, what else... So at that time, in the course of previous economic ministers, a study was carried out in the Ministry of Economics, which found that Latvia has at least 120 not smaller than a medium-sized enterprise of its own size, which is interested in its own production, its current production and its future production, to participate in these programmes of the European Space Agency. And what exactly is this? It is therefore both a communication technique, especially in terms of the use of satellite technology, and a variety of new materials - both textiles and various composite materials - which are used in the space industry, but which is equally useful for the economy in areas where we are faced with high temperatures, where we are faced with high different current frequencies and so on. It is, by nature, a programme where new products are promoted by means of space-based products - products that may not be created by large countries of the world with their own industries, because these volumes are too small for them, but Latvia as the country of creation of niche products in this case may be an important player in this market of the European Space Agency. And that's what we're talking about here. So, in principle, about Latvia's economy... for investment in the Latvian economy through the opportunity to participate in these numerous programmes of the European Space Agency, and at the same time in this way it is an opportunity for our scientists... Indeed, our scientists are gaining new experience, receiving new contacts, being recognised partners and not just, say, helpful or assistants, and finally entering Europe's major scientific life. And that is why I am calling for a vote in favour of this reallocation of appropriations, and it is not true that the Saeima has no say on it, because Kārlis Šadurskis, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) will not allow me to lie that certainly this issue has been dealt with in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission (Dep. K. Šadurskis has a positive home with his head.) and the budget and financial (tax) commission has been delegated by the Saeima to decide on such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U67	Thank you. Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U68	Of course, we need to support science, support higher technologies, but unfortunately I did not get an answer to the number of scientists from Latvia participating in this space programme. ( From the drug depot. E.Smilten intermediates.) But, speaking of the same pigs, there are enough farms in agriculture to forgive, where many people work. Well, for example, in one, I know 35 people work. And in fact, these disasters, which have occurred in connection with unforeseen circumstances, are likely to result in all these people losing their jobs. And... but in the end, if we are politicians, we are looking for a compromise! Just as Beck and Strelka were launched in space, perhaps in the next year or five years we could put in space those pigs that are plagued. ( From the drug depot. E.Smilten: “What is it about... Is that so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U69	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U70	Yes, honourable colleagues! Of course, on behalf of the commission, I can't comment on these stupidities that just sounded from the platform because they were not yet known to the commission. But when it comes to what kind of Latvian scientists will benefit from this payment, it must be said that in fact these 1.3 million minus administrative expenses... If we are members of this club, then we can participate in joint projects, and basically all this money will come back as European Space Agency funded projects by our scientists. So it's an extremely good investment. And I will really confirm what Mr. Wuzan said. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined this proposal and has supported it. And those colleagues who so much call on the Saeima to give the opportunity to decide... If you can convince the majority of the Saeima that you are right for your pigs - then go ahead! ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “We are voting!” ; dep. A.Elksniņš: “Lower talk!” ) A decision is acceptable to Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U71	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015” (registration number 187/Lm12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 74, for - 7, for - 6. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015” (registration number 188/Lm12). On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U72	Ladies and gentlemen, this draft decision drawn up by the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) contains two points, and in fact it concerns two real estates where investment is needed. One is in Riga, Lāčplēša iela 25, and the other is... Capital investments are needed in the construction of the suburb of Riga Castle. And here is the proposal to re-allocate budget resources of less than half a million from the appropriate programme of the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption, as written in the draft decision, and from the appropriate programmes of the Ministry of Culture. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U73	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor will be held for Ms Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U74	Dear colleagues, This Decision proposes to decide on the reallocation of EUR 463 000 from the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption into the budgets of other institutions. However, this time the issue is not about the redistribution of money, but about how the government is dealing with taxpayers' money. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: “It’s the Magonis money!” ) And the wisdom of life teaches, “seven times measured and then cut off.” Unfortunately, this wisdom is constantly ignored by our government because it is more convenient to live and can create an illusion of functioning. The executive seems to apply this wisdom in a reverse way: seven times cut and then measured. If something is not like that, then you can justify finding it, because “we wanted to be better, but it happened, as always”... And a wise man, once climbed onto a raven, usually does not repeat his error a second time, but the search for KNAB premises and the allocation of funding to the government for the repair of the room is a raven on which it will not climb for the first time. I would therefore like to remind you of just a few facts. In 2002 KNAB was created, and the premises were set up in the quiet centre of Riga on Alberta Street, which was rented from Riga University of Law. When the premises become narrow, new premises are being searched for, and in 2007 the government decides on the construction of KNAB building in Kipsala. A contract is concluded for the development of sketches of the building and technical project and the carrying out of the authorial supervision. In 2011, when more than 372 thousand euros have been spent on the implementation of this project, the government decides to formally terminate the project and instruct the “State Real Estate” to search for new premises. One year before the decision of the government, in 2010, KNAB is already moving to Brīvības Street, which generates current expenditure, because the premises are once again set up for KNAB. In 2011 the search for KNAB premises continues, and in 2012 the government decision on reconstruction and application of the building Aristīds Briāna iela 13 for KNAB needs is taken, with the necessary funding of 3.3 million euros. The decision is taken despite the objections and calls of the State Audit Office to seek a less cost-intensive solution. The government points out that this is already the optimal solution. And the system is starting to work again, the process is going on. Again in 2013, a contract is concluded for the development of a technical project, the carrying out of author's supervision, and in the implementation of this project taxpayers' funds are generously spent - this time almost 104 thousand euros. Unfortunately, this story has not yet come to an end. Although the decision on reconstruction of the building on Briāna Street has not yet been repealed, “State Real Estate” in 2015 simultaneously begins to develop technical specifications for the building at Citadeles iela 1. As a result, the search for the premises of KNAB has already cost taxpayers more than half a million euros. And it's still, despite the time spent by these people, the wages, the material expenditure that this process has created! But there is no result! And again, everything goes back to its starting point. Once again, only preliminary expenditure of EUR 2.4 million has been calculated. Again, this amount may double as the specific costs can only be determined after the entry into service of the building. Ask yourself, ‘ Is this really what a caring householder is doing? ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Yes!” ) Is it really a good practice to go around with taxpayers’ money? And who will be responsible for this waste of taxpayers' money? Honourable Members, we can already ignore these facts and believe that they are technical amendments and that it is all right that the State Real Estate Agency and the Ministry of Finance are working in the interests of the state. The question remains: who is the country? I call on you to vote against this reallocation of appropriations, thus voting against such a model of decision-making and real estate management and helping the executive to learn the difficult lesson - it is better to set up seven times! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U75	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U76	(From the drug depot. A.Klementjevs: “Well, where is the new house?” ) Mrs silverba likes to quote Russian politicians. This time, Chernobyl was quoted. It seems to me that Luzkov had said, “It has never been, and here, again!” Once again, we have a certain attack on demagogy, because of course we have to be caring for our owners. And in the case of KNAB, at least one decision for a new building was uneconomic: it was a decision taken in 2008 or there... 2007 in connection with the movement to the City of Brīvības. There, I allow, rather, there was interest in the then KNAB boss Vilnitis, because the office could remain in the quiet center, and then there would have been no unnecessary expenditure. As far as the current situation is concerned, on the choice between Brian Street or Citadele Street, Mrs Silverba quite rightly said that Brian Street is in a rather sad state. Offering... and that it was planned to spend 3.5 million euros... And you said that the State Audit Office objected to such large expenditures that are unthinkable. The decision was made, however, had spent a little more than a hundred thousand euros, but when God finished the new building of the State Revenue Service, the building was freed up on Citadele Street, which is in a very good technical condition and is very well suited to the needs of KNAB, and so it was possible to save those funds, Mrs. Silverba... Mrs. Silver! There was an opportunity to respect the proposal of the State Audit Office and not spend 3.5 million euros, but limited to a hundred thousand euros of spending. Yes, it's not good, but if we were to make all the decisions of the country to be stoned and filled with the stone, I'm afraid that life would stop like that stone. ( From the drug depot. I. Silver middlings.) Life is life. When making the decision to move to Brian Street several years ago, it was not yet known whether or not it would be released and when the building on Citadele Street would be freed and who would have the opportunity to take it. Therefore, I think that we should live, not as the statuettes of the Easter Islands, but as real people. And if we follow Mrs Silver's proposal to refuse the reallocation of appropriations, this will mean that half a million euros will be frozen without sense. That money is not needed for KNAB! The money was dedicated to moving to Brian Street. Why should we keep that money in the savings box when money can be used for the current needs of our country? I call for support for this draft decision. ( A certain group of Members applauds its unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U77	Thank you. The floor will be held for Ms Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U78	Dear colleagues, After a long time of focusing on the agenda of the Saeima sitting and reading this draft decision, I am really very pleased, because I understand that KNAB's activities are currently organised in the country, it is effective, with the capacity of the office is all right, it has all the resources available and necessary, including for operational activities. Corruption in Latvia has decreased to such an extent that it is no longer... does not leave a great impact on serious decision-making and development of Latvia, so we can re-allocate half a million from the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau for other needs, realizing that this money is not needed to recover, as it was planned at the beginning. However... Perhaps the Anti-Corruption Office may still have some needs to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U79	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? There is nothing to add. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2015” (registration number 188/ Lm 12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against - 8, refraining from - 5. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting to look at the next chapter - 'On the own-initiative proposal tabled'. Draft decision “On rejection of the collective initiative “Decrimination of Marijuana” presented by 10 117 Latvian citizens”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U80	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 1 June of this year, the Saeima received a collective initiative “Decriminalisation of Marihuan” signed by 10 117 Latvian citizens, which invited the Saeima to make such amendments to the law that would impose a penalty in Latvia for the cultivation, storage and transportation of marihuan for small amounts of personal needs, as well as for smoking. In accordance with the parliamentary order roll initiative, the mandate, ethics and application were transferred to the committee for initial evaluation. At two meetings, the Commission assessed the requirement contained in the initiative. At the first meeting, the Commission heard the authorised representatives of the initiative who presented 100 arguments in favour of the initiative's request and expressed the view that the existing regulations, existing bans on marijuana are not based on current scientific research and that marijuana has a wide medical application. Since the initiative is of great public interest, the committee held its second session in the Red House of the Saeima, where live live broadcasting of the session was ensured. The Commission consulted the health sector. Representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Latvian Medical Association, the Riga Psychiatry and Drugology Centre, the Disease Prevention and Control Centre and the Latvian Pharmaceutical Society participated in the meeting. All of the above expressed a negative view against the decriminalisation of marijuana. Having assessed the applicants' claims and taking into account all the information received, the Commission considered that it was impossible to introduce the decriminalisation of marijuana in Latvia and unanimously decided to reject this proposal and to direct it to the sitting of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Please support the draft decision of the Commission, which prohibits the abolition of punishment in Latvia for the cultivation, storage and transport of marijuana to a small extent for personal purposes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U81	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the rejection of the collective initiative “Decrimination of Marijuana” presented by 10 117 Latvian citizens! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Interference from the drug: “Yes!Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ About 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns from the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns from the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 88, against - no, abstaining - 2. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit of the Seimas Member Jurs Vectirāns. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 89, for - 1, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Gunta Kalniņš to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Gunta Kalniņa, member of the Saeima, to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Gunta Kalniņš to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Gunta Kalniņš, member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Auditing! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Juris Viļums from the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Juris Viļuma from the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 89, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Juris Viļuma to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Juris Viļuma to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Ms Inga Betes to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Inga Betes to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Ms Inga Betes as a member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Inga Betes to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for today's sitting has been examined. However, the Saeima Bureau has received a question from Member Zarina, Mirska, Raimonda Rubika, Potapkin and Orlova to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma about the Ministry of Economics' inactions in the field of construction. This question is referred to President-in-Office of the European Union Laimdota Straujuma. But Member Ivars Zarins wants the floor to motivate this question. Please, you're one minute away!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U82	Colleagues, we made changes to the Construction Law. A State Building Control Office was established to ensure the quality of construction and maintenance of buildings of public interest. Unfortunately, the underlying regulatory environment, which it needs and which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economics, does not ensure it, but has created a situation where a number of socially important buildings can be left unattended at all, as there is no clear border of responsibility between the State Construction Control Office and the building boards. This creates the ground for new “Zolitude tragedies”. As early as summer, this was the focus of the Ministry of Economics. Unfortunately, this inaction or incompetentness has not been eliminated. That is why we are now asking the Head of Government to take decisive action to put an end to this situation. From about half a year before the Zolitude tragedy, I warned of the possibility of such a tragedy. I am very keen to hope that this warning will be taken into account this time and that the Head of Government will show it through his determined action and will prevent this failure of the Ministry of Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U83	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the entire agenda has been examined. Time to register. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! While the results of the registration are being collected, honourable colleagues, I would like to inform you... and, on behalf of all of us, to welcome our colleague Sergey Dolgopolov, who is on birthday today! (Applause) Depp. The flowers are served to S.Dolgopolov.) However, quite recently, in August, our colleague Arthur Rubik also celebrated the half-round anniversary. Congratulations! (Applause) Depp. A.Rubikas is served with flowers.) Recently, Member Vilnis Ķirsims was also the half-cirmis anniversary. Congratulations! (Applause) Depp. V.Kirs is served flowers.) And last week Member Mārtiņš Šics celebrated the half-round anniversary. Congratulations! (Applause) Depp. M. Šicas is served with flowers.) And now the name to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U84	Dear colleagues, Not registered for this moment: Valery Agešins, Boriss Cilevičs, Andrejs Elksniņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Ināra Mūrniece and Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-09-03-PT12-315-U85	Thank you. Therefore, I declare closed the sitting of the Saeima on 3 September 2015.
