ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the Saeima sitting. Good morning, colleagues! I call again for seats to be held in the Chamber. Let's start the Saeima sitting! Before starting to discuss the agenda of the approved meeting, the amendments tabled to the agenda adopted by the Bureau should be considered. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government asks to exclude from the agenda of the Saeima session the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Structure of the State Administration”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been removed from the agenda. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting “On consent to the subsequent trial of the criminal case of the 12th Saeima Member Daiņa Liepiņš”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by member Gaida Berzina, Einars Cilinska, Rihards Kola, Jānis Dombrava and Ilmars Latkovska be submitted to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 21, for - 23. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Diņa Liepiņa, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Ruka, Ivars Brīvers and other draft laws presented “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of Latvia” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Legal Commission. Are there any objections to Members? ( The interdependencies of the fraction are: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of Latvia” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 44, for - 19, for - 23. So the draft law has been passed on to the commissions. ( Unity of the fraction and the circle of the LRA fraction.) The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” be referred to the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda, draft decision on the approval of Ivonna Ādamsone-Strož as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 January this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Ivonna Ādamsone-Straža as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Ivonna Adamsoni-Strūza to approve the judge of district (city) court without limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Ivonna Ādamsone-Stražs as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Līga Baltmanes-Zepas as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U4	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 January this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Līga Baltmanes-Zepas as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on you to confirm Līga Baltmanis-Zepa as a judge of district (city) court without limitation of the term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U5	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of the Līga Baltmanes-Zepas as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the decision has been made. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U6	Dear President, Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Veterinary Medicine Law”. I would like to remind you that these amendments concern disease control at present, in particular African swine fever. We empower Food and Veterinary Office inspectors to enter private property and to check that animals are not kept illegally. No proposals have been received, and on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I call for the vote on the draft law. ( From the hall: There are three proposals!) ) Oh, yes? None.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U7	I'm sorry! So there are three proposals in the draft law. ( Pause.) Depp. A.Krauzzem is given a document. From the medicine: “You need to prepare!” , dep. J.Urbanovich: “We also support!” ) ( Pause. Depp. A.Krauzzem is given a document. From the medicine: “You need to prepare!” , dep. J.Urbanovich: “We also support!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U8	I'm sorry! And... Yes, three proposals from the Legal Office have been received. ( From the drug: “First! ” ) Proposal ( From the drug, “The Commission supported! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U9	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U10	... the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U11	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U12	Proposal 2: The Commission is supported. Filed by the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U13	2. - Members support the proposal put forward by the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U14	And the proposal from the committee responsible... ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “Who?” )... Third. ( From the drug: “We support! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U15	So 3. - the proposal tabled by the committee responsible, which is also supported by the Commission itself, is supported by Members of the Saeima at its sitting. Consequently, all the proposals have been examined and the Member has the opportunity to call on behalf of the Commission to support the draft law at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U16	Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final, reading of the draft law on Veterinary Medicine! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Information Technology Security, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, dear colleagues. In its meeting of 27 January this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention discussed draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security”. There was one proposal, purely technical - the word ‘manager’ was replaced by ‘manager’. The Commission accepted. Request to accept and adopt the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U19	Thus, there is no objection to the proposal 1. There are no other proposals. We can therefore support the draft law at third, final, reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on Information Technology Security! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Administration of Prisons with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U20	Dear Bureau, colleagues. A decision has already been made on the establishment of the Office for the Interior of the Ministry of the Interior, which is linked to the Office for the Internal Security of the State Police, in order to remove any doubts about the fact that violations of police staff rights are being assessed objectively and without, as is said, a dubious defence of the mundier's honour. It is therefore necessary to amend several regulatory acts. And the first one is the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Service Degrees in the Ministry of Service Law”. The draft law provides that officials of the Office of the Interior Security whose function is to carry out operational activities and investigate criminal offences in pre-trial proceedings are officials of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior system with special service degrees. It is therefore necessary to amend the law on the course of service by providing that the progress of the official of the Office of Internal Security with special grades of service is determined by that law. At the same time, in order to ensure the attraction of qualified personnel of the Office for Internal Security, the transitional provisions of the law on service progress... incorporating provisions providing for exceptions to the admission of officials to the Office for Internal Security. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Development”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U22	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 27 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U23	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is February 27 this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Schengen Information System Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U24	The future law to be amended is the law on the functioning of the Schengen Information System. In order to allow the Office for Internal Security to perform its functions effectively, it is necessary to provide that the Office for Internal Security has the right to include, correct and delete data relating to a person, object and document in the Schengen Information System, as well as to access all data relating to a person, object and document included in the Schengen Information System. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U25	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Schengen Information System Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 82, for - no, for - 1. So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U26	The deadline for submitting the proposals for second reading is the same - 27 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U27	So the deadline for submitting proposals is February 27 this year. The next item is the draft law on the amendment to the Law on the Administration of Prisons, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U28	Given that officials of the Office for Internal Security will also consider applications from prisoners with special ranks of service, it is necessary to provide that those officials may visit places of detention without special authorisation. On behalf of the Commission, I also call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Administration of Prisons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U30	This draft law is also due to be submitted on 27 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U31	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is February 27 this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Office Law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U32	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” is proposed, second reading. No proposals. So I ask you to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U33	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Prosecutor’s Office”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at second reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U34	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 10 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U35	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 10 February this year. Colleagues! I would like to inform you that I have received an application from Members Kārlis Šadurskis, Solvita Āboltiņa, Edwards Smiltēna, Hosama Abu Meri, Daiņa Liepiņa and Mārtiņš Bondars requesting a re-vote on the draft law "Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia" because it has probably been voted on by Members who did not appear in the Chamber. ( Medications. Depp. V.Ageshin: “Well Surnames!” ; dep. A.Clementyev: “You weren’t only, Edward!” ) Do Members agree... Colleagues, please don't talk to the hall! Do Members of the Saeima agree to vote? ( Interfaces: “Do not agree! ”) “We have already voted!” ) The Members therefore agree to vote. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I From the drug depot. G. Daudze: “To vote for the vote.” ) By voting in favour? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I From the drug depot. G. Daudze: “No, will we vote at all for whether we will vote.” From the medicine: “Yes!” , “No!” ) Yes. Do colleagues want to vote in favour of this vote in the draft Saeima Law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”? ( Medications.) But nobody wants to... ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “If anyone wants to, we vote!” ) Colleagues, please call us! ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “What are we voting on?” ) Let us vote on the proposal - voting on the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 46, against - 44, refraining from - 1. So this draft law is revoteable. Thank you. So we have to vote, as the Saeima decided by a majority vote, the handover of the bill. The Presidium of the Saeima and members of the Saeima therefore propose that the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by the Saeima member Berzina, Cilinska, Kola, Dombrava and Latkovska be submitted to all parliamentary commissions and that the Legal Commission be the committee responsible. So please call! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to all Saeima committees, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 46, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So there is no quorum in the Chamber and we need to vote on this again. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by the Member of the Saeima to all Saeima committees, stating that the Legal Commission is the responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 46, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the vote still shows that there is probably no quorum in the Chamber. Colleagues, we now have to register to determine whether there is a quorum in the hall and whether we can continue the sitting. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members!... Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! 88 Members have registered, so there is a quorum and the Saeima sitting can be continued. ( From the drug depot. L. Cigan: Ooo! There's laughter, ringing.) I'm taking a technical break for ten minutes. Thank you. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U36	Okay. Colleagues! Taking into account Article 52 of the parliamentary roll and the fact that Members collect signatures, there is a proposal to extend the technical break by another 10 minutes. So the technical break by 9.48 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U37	Colleagues, I call for seats to be held in Saeima's meeting room. Let's keep the Saeima sitting! Since the previous votes showed that there may be no quorum in the Chamber, let us start by registering the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! 91 Members have registered, so we can continue the Saeima sitting. The signatures of 20 Members have been requested to continue today's sitting of the Saeima with the next item of the agenda in accordance with Rule 52 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure: “Understanding one case, no case may be referred to another unless the parliamentary commission requests the suspension of the debate and the transition to another case or at least 20 Members and the Saeima agrees.” Does the Saeima agree to move on to the next item? ( From a political group, “Accompanied! ”) ; from the LRA Group: ‘We shall vote!’ ) Members request a vote. Please call me! Let us vote on whether to continue the sitting of the Saeima with the next item on the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - 17, for - 3. So let's keep the Saeima sitting with the next item on the agenda. The next item is the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials", first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U38	Dear colleagues, In connection with the creation of the new authority, the Office for Internal Security, a range of officials, subject to the requirements of this law... The requirements of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials have been extended to these two officials... The Commission examined the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and decided to support it and to direct it to the Saeima to support it at first reading by the Saeima. It's about the country... for the head of the office and his deputy... Please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - no, for - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U40	The Commission is proposing a deadline for the submission of proposals on 10 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U41	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 10 February this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on the amendment to the Civil Service Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U42	President, Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues! We can see the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service”. The draft law aims to resolve the following situation: Embassies tend to have periods when a very large number of people wish to receive a visa and need to recruit additional staff, but since this work requires specific skills, there is a limited circle from which to attract these people. Great work could be done by people from the Ministry of the Interior, for example, from border guards, because they work with similar things on a daily basis. However, people with special degrees of service are not officials and therefore cannot work in this foreign service. The draft law provides that for up to three years, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice will also be able to make people with special service degrees therefore civil servants, and therefore they will be able to work in this foreign service. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U43	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U44	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U45	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 10 February this year. The next item is the draft law on the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U46	Good morning, dear colleagues! Let us work on the draft law on the Restoring and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms. And it must be said right away that all the comments I want to make on behalf of the Commission on this draft law also apply to the four future draft laws, because they all have to be seen in the context. In particular, this draft law is based on Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms and amending several previous Council Directives. This European directive is, in fact, the first effective instrument at European Union level to regulate bank bailouts. The requirements of the Directive are fully incorporated into the draft law. In Latvia, the Bank Takeover Act, which, with the adoption of this draft law and the entry into force of this law, is currently in force. This regulation is much broader, because it provides for all possible forms of restoration of the bank's activities, or for its taking over - which is now politely referred to here as obtaining resolution - even if the operation is not renewed. The main principles of this draft law are that the aim is to protect public funds and ensure financial stability. And a prerequisite for the operation of the law is the situation in which the bank is likely to become insolvent in the near future. And the main principle is that the losses are first borne by the shareholders, then by the large creditors, but the creditors do not suffer more losses than in the event of liquidation of the bank. And covered deposits or secured deposits are fully protected. This draft law also provides for a mechanism for exceptional financial support by the State. And in the near future, we must wait another European regulation, which will form a common resolution mechanism at European level, where initially there will be packages of Member States in this mechanism, to the extent that, let us say, banks in difficulty in the Member States can be resolved and, at the end of 2018, there will be a single resolution mechanism for the whole of the European Union. So this is the first step towards it. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for support for this draft law at first reading. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U47	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U48	The Commission would welcome proposals by 26 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U49	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 26 February this year. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis. I'm sorry! Consequently, the draft law on deposit guarantees, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U50	Yes, honourable colleagues! The Law on Deposit Guarantees is also related to the same issue, and I would just like to add that with the coming into force of this Law, the current Law on Deposit Guarantees will become obsolete. And I call... Consequently, the law in fact was not amended because the scope of the amendments was very large and a new draft law was therefore created. And I call for it to be supported at first reading. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U51	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on Deposit Guarantees! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U52	Just like 26 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U53	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 26 February this year. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U54	Dear colleagues, This draft law is also related to the previous two, and it makes it easier for me to read the draft law rather than to tell it, so ‘to perform the functions laid down in the law on the renewal and resolution of the activities of credit institutions and investment firms’, which are intended to be entrusted to the appropriate authorities... Hence, simply change the title of the law in the verse. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Financial and Capital Markets"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U56	February 26th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U57	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 26 February this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U58	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission calls for support to be given to this draft law at first reading. This is linked to the previous transposition of the European Union directive mentioned above into our national legislation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( From the hall: “Very good, Carl! ” ) The draft law at first reading has been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U60	That's also February 26, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U61	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 26 February this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U62	Dear colleagues, This draft law concludes the five draft laws that I mentioned. It is therefore also linked to the transposition of the same directive. And there are also some technical details in this draft law, because a number of issues relating, for example, to firms that have been regulated so far by the insolvency law will now be governed by this new law when it comes into force. On behalf of the Commission, I call for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U63	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U64	Dear colleagues, That's also February 26, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U65	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 26 February this year. The next item is the draft law on amending the Law on Microbusiness Tax, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U66	Dear colleagues, This is a very important draft law, and I would therefore like to tell Members the substance of the matter, in so far as we have seen it in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. These amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act, which have been submitted with the signatures of six Members, are drafted by the Ministry of Economics. They set out a number of points. First of all, they provide for a change in the current regulation that the tax rate of micro-enterprises for turnover of up to 7 thousand euros is 9 per cent, while the part of turnover that exceeds it is 11 per cent this year, the following year - 13, the following year and thereafter - 15 per cent. Instead, it is planned to provide for a total tax rate of 9 per cent for micro-enterprises in the first three years of operation, while from the fourth year of operation, a 12 per cent share of turnover in excess of EUR 7 000 will be taxed. Secondly, these amendments also change the percentage distribution by which the State Treasury distributes the amount of corporation tax paid between the accounts of the state-owned risk tax, the state social security contribution, personal income tax and corporate income tax. Thirdly, a transitional provision is also proposed that economic operators already registered as micro-enterprises tax payers start to count for a period of three years from the entry into force of this law. Many informal consultations have taken place between the Saeima Members and the social partners. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has looked at the draft law in two sittings, preparing it for first reading. The Commission has discussed the presentation of this issue by the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Several opinions have been received, namely the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Welfare, the State Revenue Service, the Latvian Local Government Union, the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and the Free Trade Union of Latvia. And heard the opinion of the Saeima Legal Bureau. I will not analyse each opinion separately, but will point to the problem groups that are mentioned in these opinions and discussed in the Saeima's Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Firstly, a common view was expressed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission that a small 9 per cent tax on micro-enterprises is a factor that should be maintained in order to stimulate the start-up of business activities and the accumulation of first experience in the light of the preferential tax regime, with businesses moving further into the general tax regime business. There will always be small family businesses - one could say niche companies - whose owners will not have any development goals and potentials, in order to get out of the set of characteristics that characterise micro-enterprises in the future, but who, by working well, provide a living for the family and allow it not to qualify as a different kind of benefit... the beneficiaries of state and municipal benefits, but to operate successfully in the economy. And as an example, I can mention small rural guest houses, home small producers, craftsmen and domestic service providers. This low rate and its calculation procedure would also maintain a simple accounting and accounting system in a micro enterprise, which is very important for a small company. The second agreed by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. There was expressed support for the establishment of a three-year preferential start-up regime, but at the same time, the legislator should develop a set of features that could distinguish between those businessmen that I have just mentioned, for which micro-enterprises tax regime is not start-up support, but could remain in order to reduce the administrative burden both for the business operator and for the state authorities, and which would therefore actually be similar to the craftsmen who can withdraw the patent, where the patent payment is a state-established, a uniform fixed payment, which includes personal income tax state social insurance contributions for the economic activities of the natural person. In this case, it would not be an individual activity but a micro-enterprises tax which would be the payment of the corporation tax. At the same time, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission points to a number of problems that this draft law does not solve, but the resolution of which is crucial for the development of entrepreneurship, increasing productivity and the economy as a whole, as well as reducing distortions of competition. And this would really stimulate the emergence of new businesses and the reduction of unemployment, but would not create a precondition for the transition of economic operators from the general tax regime to the tax of micro-enterprises, thus simply optimising the amount of tax to be paid to the State, as well as providing social security for micro-enterprises at least to a minimum. I will mention in purely numerical terms the main problems identified by the public authorities, the social partners and the members of the Commission. More than 138 thousand or 17.4 percent of employees receive remuneration below the minimum wage. These persons may not be referred to as insured within the meaning of the Law on State Social Insurance. Secondly, 35 percent of the population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion in Latvia. The situation in the European Union is only worse in three countries: Bulgaria, Greece and Romania. Thirdly, micro-enterprises will earn an average pension of EUR 45.2 in their working lives, if only in micro-enterprises; this does not reach a public intervention level of around EUR 130 per household member or the minimum pension of EUR 70 at present. Thus, in order to guarantee them a minimum amount of old-age pension, this should be done at the expense of other taxpayers. The next point was made. At the end of 2014, 93.5 thousand people worked in micro-enterprises, accounting for about 15 percent of all 579.4 thousand people working in the private sector. Of these people, almost half, about 40,000, work only in micro-enterprises. So if we can believe that the rest of the general tax regime, which are still working in companies, are more or less socially insured, then those 40 000 are not actually insured against any of the risks inherent in the social security system, and simply they cannot or cannot afford to be sick, children in the world, to lose their jobs, and in old age they are in need of poverty and desolation. Next. Over the course of four years, micro-enterprises have become a significant form of business, with the number of micro-enterprises exceeding 40,000. There is an increase in the number of sectors where micro-enterprises exceed 20 per cent of the total turnover of the sector, making other market players look for adaptation solutions in order to remain competitive. There is a risk of a downward spiral of tax optimisation. Next. Many micro-enterprises are not new enterprises but transformed from other forms of commercial activity. 52 per cent of the employees of micro-enterprises have been employed in companies in the general tax regime. The next point. Microenterprises work in areas such as the provision of high-skilled legal and business advice, accounting services, mining, wholesale and other. This does not indicate the start of business, which would require a light micro-enterprises tax regime, but shows that from the perspective of the sustainability of the state budget there is an unjustified tax optimisation, for which the legislator has created a favourable opportunity. The micro-enterprises tax does not reduce regional disparities. 69 percent of all micro-enterprises operate in Riga, but, for example, in Latgale only 6 percent. This percentage of micro-enterprises is broadly in line with the overall economic structure. And it is difficult to conclude that a micro-enterprises, as a form of entrepreneurship, would serve the development of depressed regions and reduce regional inequality. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš intermediates from the drug.) Go on. The Ministry of Finance has indicated that this draft law has a fiscal impact on the budget for 2015: according to the Ministry of Finance, it increases the deficit by EUR 7 million. Thus, according to Article 66 of the Satversme, the legislator must find compensatory mechanisms. The Ministry of Economics, in turn, considers that this draft law is fiscally neutral, that the stimulation of economic activity will compensate for the tax foregone, which has been calculated by the Ministry of Finance. Thus, we do not share the view of the Cabinet of Ministers on this draft law. And according to Article 61 of the Satversme, we must request a joint opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers on the draft law. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has already sent this request for an opinion to the Cabinet of Ministers. And another point. In its opinion, the Latvian Municipal Union has indicated that the draft law reduces municipal income from personal income tax. Remember - and I am saying that one of the issues of this draft law is also about redistribution - about how this tax on micro-enterprises is distributed between accounts. A reduction in the rate and a transfer of the higher tax to social insurance contributions reduces municipal income in the area of personal income tax, and therefore municipalities demand to provide local governments with a special grant from the state budget in order to compensate for this reduction in tax revenue. This issue, too, must actually be addressed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and recommendations must be given as to how we can act in order not to reduce municipal revenue. You can get acquainted with the full text of all the opinions I mentioned on the Saeima's website. To sum up, there are problems, but we have good opportunities to deal with them, keeping them in the right of the micro-enterprises tax regime and mitigating adverse reactions. The Commission agreed on the need to work in three directions. Firstly, to set the tax rate for micro-enterprises at 9 per cent for the first three years of operation and then at 12 per cent, as mentioned in this draft law. However, there is a need for a discussion on whether it is possible to define the criteria by which companies could maintain 9 percentage points in the future after this three-year period. These are the companies I mentioned that do not want to grow further, develop but work well in their niche. Secondly, to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to develop rules determining which sectors are eligible for application of the Microbusiness Tax Act. Regulations should enter into force from 1 January 2016 in order to give entrepreneurs time to prepare for it. The aim of the norm is to limit business areas for which there is no objective basis for the application of the micro-enterprises tax regime, where in fact this micro-enterprises tax regime optimises taxation by reducing total tax revenues. Thirdly. To establish that starting from 1 January 2016, it is necessary to start a transitional period during which the owner of a micro-enterprises must move to the regime, when the minimum social insurance contributions established by the State Social Insurance Law must be made for their employees. Colleagues, this is a much broader issue! This is not just a matter of micro-enterprises' taxes, because, as you have heard, a very large proportion of workers in micro-enterprises and outside micro-enterprises are paid less than the minimum wage. As a result, social contributions for them are also paid to a lesser extent. If we look at today's minimum wage, which is EUR 360, then we see that in general tax treatment, the employer's and the worker's total social security contributions are EUR 122,7. Of course, all those who contribute less - and they are, in fact, micro-enterprises and those who earn less than the minimum - do not reach this level of social insurance. At present, the micro-enterprises pay an average of €40 per month for their employees. For companies that meet the parameters of a micro-enterprises but do not register as micro-enterprises, these contributions are slightly higher, but only reach €64 per month, representing slightly more than half of the social security contributions corresponding to the minimum wage. It can therefore be seen that this problem is broad and not limited to micro-enterprises. And here should find a way and a time period... I could mention, for example, the option that was also expressed in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, that it could be three years from 1 January of next year, during which we in Latvia could move to this minimum level of social security regardless of corporate tax treatment. And I have had negotiations in this regard with the President of the Commission on Social Affairs, Mrs Barča. We have agreed to convene a joint meeting of our two commissions. This will take place on 18 February, because these issues, which I am talking about now, are, in fact, issues of the Law on State Social Insurance. Another comment, which is important in the whole of the above context. Article 91 of the Satversme provides that all people in Latvia are equal before the law and the court. Human rights shall be exercised without discrimination. And then... I would like to quote a passage from the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 19 December 2013 in case No 2013/09/01. In other words: ‘The principle of equality precludes public bodies from issuing standards which, without a reasonable basis, allow for different treatment of persons who are in a comparable and comparable situation according to certain criteria. The principle of equality allows and even requires different treatment of persons in different circumstances, as well as different treatment of persons in equal circumstances on objective and reasonable grounds.’ End of quote. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we must improve this draft law in order to incorporate this objective and reasonable basis into it, so that we can continue to maintain the micro-enterprises' low tax regime, so that our society can enjoy all its benefits and that those who have paid Latvia's general tax regime overall relatively high labour taxes should not be forced to show solidarity with those who have not done it during their working life. The Commission agreed that this work could be done and supported the draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I also call on the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U67	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Mr. Putra, are you going to have eight, nine minutes to break? Yeah, thank you. So the name to Member Edgar Putr.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U68	Hello, dear colleagues! This law, which was adopted in 2010, was designed not only to create the necessary conditions to encourage the people left without work to start their business activities, but also to create a business environment conducive to micro-enterprises, tax policy, reduce unemployment and develop the capacity of entrepreneurs by increasing the share of entrepreneurs in the total number of employees. With the implementation of the Microbusiness Tax Law, there have been positive changes in both employment rates of Latvia and overall economic activity. Although there is no direct correlation between employment rates and the introduction of the micro-enterprises tax regime, statistics show that the unemployment rate has fallen from 19.5 to 10.9 per cent between 2010 and 2014. The number of employees in micro-enterprises has increased from 26.3 thousand in 2011 to 67.6 thousand in 2014. Moreover, growth dynamics are higher than the average economy. It is important to stress that 48 percent is almost half! - of the micro-enterprises as a whole, the micro-enterprises were not covered by social security insurance before they became micro-enterprises. In addition, 38 percent of them, or 41.3 thousand, were not insured for seven months or more. The workers in question were, therefore, in fact long-term unemployed, who also received social benefits. Similarly, starting in 2010, the number of newly registered enterprises has increased significantly, thereby increasing both the number of active enterprises and the proportion of taxpayers in total employment. The direct introduction of the MUN payment regime has contributed significantly to the promotion of economic activity. The number of micro-enterprises increased by more than 120 percent between 2011 and 2014. The micro-enterprises tax regime has had a positive impact not only on business quantitative indicators but also on qualitative indicators showing the positive impact of the micro-enterprises tax regime on business development. Every year, both the average number of micro-enterprises employed and the average turnover of micro-enterprises are gradually increasing. Initially, they were 12 thousand euros, whereas already in 2014, they were provisionally 16 thousand euros, which respectively increases the average amount of taxes paid by each company in the state budget as well as the social security of its employees. Already in 2014, as is apparent from 16 thousand turnover, social security already reached 72 euros per person, per employee per month. The benefits to date from the introduction of the micro-enterprises tax regime are in line with the objectives originally set. However, it is important to stress that the achievement of the objectives of the Microbusiness Tax Act set out above is still relevant. Current macro-economic trends point to signs of Latvia's economic recovery. In recent quarters, economic growth has slowed down, driven by trends in the external environment. This is not only because the expected growth in the European Union has not been achieved, but also because it affects Russia... As a result of Russian sanctions, employment growth has been slow in the last year and, according to the State Employment Agency, there has been a slight increase in unemployment in recent months. It is also known that several Latvian companies are facing serious economic problems due to the stagnation of Russian economy and devaluation of the ruble, resulting in the loss of many Latvians. For example, 400 employees have been suspended from Ventspils's canned fish, one of the largest companies with 60 employees has been eliminated in Jēkabpils - Jelgava Meat Kombēta, Daugavpils Locomotive Repair Plant has now started to reduce its states, several companies have moved to Liepaja for less than a week. Thus, there are signs that the problems are present and that they are present. Although Latvia's overall economic activity has increased with the implementation of the Microbusiness Tax Law, we still lag behind European averages. According to Eurostat, in 2012 Latvia had 40... almost 46 enterprises per 1000 inhabitants, whereas in Europe the average is 51 companies, and in Lithuania, in the neighbourhood, they are 50 enterprises, in Estonia - 57.4. Starting in 2012, the number of start-ups has also gradually decreased. In 2010, 2011 there was a sharp rise in their number, while in 2012, 2013, and in particular in 2014, this indicator has gone down. This also indicates the significant impact of the policies implemented on economic processes in the country. In particular, economic activity in the country is increasing significantly through the introduction of the MUN payment regime as well as by facilitating the registration of companies. In turn, giving clear signals that this tax will increase and in 2016 it will reach the 15th century.In 2017 it will reach already 15 percent, it caused the opposite effect – the number of newly established companies decreased. Therefore, in order to achieve the objectives of the economy, the policy... In order to achieve the objectives of the economic policy, it is therefore necessary to continue to provide favourable conditions for the start-up and development of entrepreneurship, while maintaining the 9 per cent MUN regime for at least the first three years of operation. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” also includes a partial solution to social insurance problems: in 2004, with the rate rising to 12 percent, all additional revenues are transferred to the social contribution provision. Finally, I would like to point out that, at present, start-ups and small businesses, with the exception of support from the European Union Structural Fund, have no other support than... From 1 January 2016, the last one is being abolished - also a fixed personal income tax, leaving the existing regulation, which provides for a gradual... gradually increasing the rate of micro-enterprises tax to 15 per cent. There is a risk that small businesses will be forced to cease their activities or switch to the general tax regime, with a partial return to the grey sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U69	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the results of the registration are being prepared, I would like to inform you, colleagues, that the exhibition “There is no limit in the fight against smuggling” will be opened immediately. And it'll be in the Great Lobby. The exhibition is organised by the Saeima Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission in cooperation with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. So everybody is welcome in the Great Lobby. Does Member Ainars Latkovskis want the floor once again for a statement?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U70	Colleagues! Members of the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption and others who would now have time to break! Five minutes later, at 10.35, we're going to unveil the exhibition "There's no borders in the fight against smuggling". So that you are invited to participate!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U71	Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U72	Hello! Currently not registered: Aija Barča, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Maris Kučinskis, Romanas Mežeckis, Nikita Nikiforovs, Sergejs Potapkins, Valdis Skujiņš, Silvija Šimfas and Dzintars Zaķis. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U73	Colleagues! I call for seats to be held in the Chamber so that we can continue the debate. And I would remind you: we shall continue the debate on the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax". Name of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U74	Hello! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Members! Today, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, I would like to make some important points towards this law. First of all, it must be said that in the context of the cooling economic activity, the Ministry of Finance considers that the progress of this law should be supported. However, the Ministry of Finance wants to draw attention to a number of cases that the Saeima should deal with. We regard them as rather serious structural risks, which could bring very serious consistency in the future if the Saeima does not pay due attention to them. The first thing we need to talk about is the exclusivity of this norm and its scope. We should remember that four years ago, when this norm was applied, Latvia had a time of crisis and very high unemployment, and the main aim of this norm, as it was written in the annex to the law, was to ensure that the conditions for the unemployed people to start their business (to start - I put emphasis on this word!) . The draft law initially provided that the tax rate would be 20 per cent, but when the draft law was passed here in the Saeima, it was reduced to 9 per cent. What does that mean in essence? Economic operators were granted an exclusive tax treatment which is by nature two thirds lower than other economic operators. At that point in time, this provision was fully justified because of the high unemployment rate. However, at this point in time, we can see that the situation is completely different. We see that the market has responded. At present, micro-enterprises have become a serious form of business. Now, there's more than we know... Last news: over 42 thousand micro-enterprises have been registered, that is, almost a thousand micro-enterprises are registered every month. We know that at the end of last year, there were 93 000 workers in micro-enterprises, and we see that the pace is very fast growing. In essence, we can say that, in the middle of this year, it is likely to exceed 100,000, and we can also say that 20 percent of those working in the private sector are micro-enterprises, so each fifth. And here we have to analyse whether this is the optimal tax treatment, because we see two fundamental problems. First, if we are talking about starting a job, then we see that 90 percent of the founders are not young founders and that these founders have already had a company or have retained their participation in another form of business, or have changed this form of business here. The second problem is that there is an increase in the number of micro-enterprises with a turnover of over 20 percent in the sector, making the rest of the industry adapt to these companies. It is absolutely clear that we know that we are in one third of the tax regime from the ordinary corporate tax regime. We, including those who work under the normal tax regime, must start looking for a solution to adapt to this price. And this is, in our opinion, a very fundamental problem. The family needs to find a solution to find... and perhaps also the government must do so. A solution must be found to really support those companies that need it, rather than giving the opportunity to optimise taxes, as we see in one case or another. I cannot blame anything here, for example, for accounting or legal services companies, which account for more than 25 percent of micro-enterprises. Of course they've used... They have made use of this opportunity to know laws, to know accounting principles. But I am not sure that it is this sector that the government should give the greatest support. All in all, about these... In 2013, if these people working in micro-enterprises had paid all taxes, it would have been € 152 million, which was paid more than it has been today. In essence, this is something that we can regard as a state subsidy. And I call on the Saeima to think very carefully about what we are giving this tax subsidy and whether everyone needs it. According to the Ministry of Finance, it is not necessary for everyone to do so, and it would be very careful to review those sectors where these tax subsidies are needed. We understand quite clearly that these are young entrepreneurs who need this support, we understand that there are a number of companies working in sectors with low income potential. Yes, they need it, but in general we cannot leave such an exclusive rule. I would like to point out that such an exclusive provision is not found in any other country of the European Union. This is only available in Latvia, and despite the fact that it has been recognised as one of the most successful solutions for starting a business, I would like to say that it does not apply only to starting a business. The second very important aspect, which concerns the... as initiated by this micro-enterprises tax, is the following. The State of Latvia has imposed state social security contributions on all residents of the country, in particular, workers, but has not set the lowest level of these contributions. And we see in the case of micro-enterprises that, out of the 90 000 working micro-enterprises, 56 000 work exclusively in micro-enterprises, others have two or more jobs. And where is the problem? Those workers who currently have a minimum wage of EUR 360 pay social contributions together with their employer at the level of EUR 122. Micro-business workers, who often pay more than the national minimum wage, pay on average €40. And there are three fundamental problems. First. The micro-enterprises tax payers do not fulfil their joint and several obligations towards pensioners. Those taxpayers who work in the normal tax regime do their job fairly, pay... pays the money that is currently paid out from the social insurance budget to pensioners, whereas micro-enterprises tax payers do not. They just do it for one third... two-thirds... reduced. The next question is: For micro-enterprises working at such an insurance level, no one would be advised to suffer because it is clear that, with such social contributions, what they will receive when they are sick or if they become disabled or become unemployed... These contributions will be disproportionately low or no. And we want to say right now that 56 000 people must not become ill or become unemployed because their level of social support will not be sufficient. The third point, which is even more important on this issue. At the moment, the state has not determined... Despite the fact that the State has not set a minimum level of social security contributions, it has set a minimum level of pensions. And the minimum pension level in the country is now 70 euros. If we are talking about micro-enterprises, then it must be said that their claims are now... what they can get... They can receive a pension of €40 once they have been working for their life in a micro-enterprises. EUR 40 pension! What does that mean? In order to receive this minimum pension, the other members of the social security scheme will have to pay them this minimum pension from their contributions. And what do I mean? This means that not only are we putting people in distress and in poverty without providing them socially, but we are making it an obligation for others to support them. So we give them socially now and oblige them to support them in the future. And I call on the Saeima to remedy this situation. I would like to say that the view of the Ministry of Finance is that the minimum level of social contributions should be the same as that at the minimum wage. And I would like to mention a few figures. As I said, so this minimum level of insurance would be 122 euros per month. And what does it provide? If a man maims himself... If an accident occurs at work and corruption occurs, then it guarantees at least a pensioner with Group II disability, EUR 146 disability pension, and a pensioner with Group I invalidity - 160... 146 and 164, yes... I want to say that it is not an exclusive pension if a person is unable to work. And I want to remind the honourable people: there are more than 150,000 people with disabilities in the country. And we have to think about their insurance. If we think these people don't get sick... these micro-workers, then... I would like to say that their average contribution salary, from which social tax is calculated, is EUR 133. Then calculate for yourself how much they receive in case of illness! But I would like to say that this would be the optimal figure - this EUR 122, which would provide a maternity benefit of EUR 288, a parental benefit of EUR 157, and an unemployment benefit of between EUR 180 and 234. Finally, I would like to say: these two things are very important in order to be able to continue with the tax on these micro-enterprises, and the Ministry of Finance is in favour of this move, but if this matter is resolved. Thank you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U75	Thank you. Name to Member Dainie Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U76	Hello, dear colleagues! So this theme is actually not as simple as... it is not simple as such. This vision, which is now being offered to us by the representatives of the Unity, is not exactly what we agreed upon. And I will remind my honourable colleagues that, at the time we met, we talked about one particular thing. From 1 January 2015 micro-enterprises tax remains 9 percent. What I hear and what my colleagues are offering at the moment is that something will be repaid sometime. Maybe! But, you know, this bureaucratic system... if something gets paid back sometime... Unfortunately, previous experience raises many questions and concerns. The other thing we agreed on. Yes, we agreed to address this issue on the minimum level, on social contributions, and we dedicated... We said that we would spend a lot of time and make sure that this level existed from 2016. And there was agreement to talk to both the social partners, parties and other stakeholders about this. I would like to remind you that, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, I am sorry, according to the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Putra, 38 percent of the existing ones have been those who have been unemployed for seven or more months. And I want to mention one elementary mathematics, that is, around EUR 7 million per month in benefits were paid in advance to support these people. So it is not just what these people seem to be subtracting, but it is also what they are paying less benefits. And this situation... speech... all the time it is said that the tax users of micro-enterprises will be those who will be given three years and that then everything will change. That's not true! There are many of these entrepreneurs who are using micro-enterprises in particular, and if they are told today that there is a limited time - 3 years, then it means the same thing to say: ‘ Stop working!’ I think that this is a dangerous trend in the current situation, because today's revenues from micro-enterprises are growing, and this is demonstrated by figures. And there's another thing. Not all can be employees of this SIA, but all of the micro-enterprises, if they have a successful job, can become SIA. And if turnover increases, then there is not as much risk as the representatives of the Ministry of Finance are trying to tell us at the moment. I see that there is a greater risk of insecurity in the economy at the moment, with small businesses starting to think about either the grey area or the cessation of their business. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that this draft law should be adopted by 1 March, because the tax on micro-enterprises will have to be paid immediately for the first quarter. This should be a matter of priority and of urgency, which we cannot delay. There will be a great deal of uncertainty and a great mess at that moment, if we start in May, June or July to tell us that the State Revenue Service has to repay something back. So all these... At the moment, we have a tendency to tell us that they are almost naughty who work with the tax on micro-enterprises. And another thing statistics show. As far as I understand, if I don't pray in numbers, 80 percent of these micro-enterprises' taxable persons are in Riga. So the problem is, by definition, Riga, not the whole country. Yes, of course, this is a problem, and it needs to be addressed. A possible offer. At present, there are problems, distortion of competition, that this type of company is involved in public procurement and municipal procurement. Then let us decide that they have limited opportunities to do so! For micro-enterprises to operate in their niche and not have access to these competitions and municipal and public money. There are many different solutions, and I would, however, call on my fellow Members to stick to the agreement that we are talking about. Again, we create unnecessary stress and tension in our relationship. I call on you, however, to stay at 9 per cent from 1 January. And I call for further progress to be supported at this point, as probably only in our discussions will we adopt the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U77	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U78	Yes, honourable colleagues, I would like to sadden Mr. Liepiņš: ( From the hall: “Do not!” ) January 1 has passed! ( From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “There can’t be!” ) We can adopt the rule of law in force from 1 January, and it is very likely that we will do so. Consequently, a person may have a beneficial effect with retroactive effect. But in any case - even if the law came into force today, it would be about some kind of conversions and refunds. And that is our task - to establish the order in which this can happen. The other problem. The State Revenue Service, as a legitimate institution, has reprogrammed all its software provision to work according to the current regime. In the negotiations with the State Revenue Service, they did not give me a specific figure, but for at least a few months it is necessary to put everything in order and to be able to accept the references for the tax collection of micro-enterprises in the new regime, to which we are now working, returning to 9 percent. Thus, even if the law came into force today, conversion and reimbursement would be necessary anyway. The other thing ( Of the medicine: “The third! Third!’ ), in the case of an interest rate of 9 per cent. Of course, we will need transitional rules, because we can set a 9 per cent rate, but all the problems that I tried to say about what was said and what was going on in the Commission... they take a longer time, because there is no immediate solution here. So, of course, we need to move in two, maybe even three speeds. One option - on the list of fields - is technically relatively simple, because this is something we can ask the Cabinet of Ministers to develop this classification. But the issue of minimum social guarantees - well, it is not really a matter of the Microbusiness Tax Act at all, because it is our general... It is a matter of the law on State social security, so it will have to be incorporated... These amendments will have to be incorporated into this law and will, of course, come into force when the law is adopted. But we need to incorporate in the Microbusiness Tax Act rules that will apply specifically to micro-enterprises, in the context of those rules that will be adopted in the Law on State Social Insurance, because the situation is far from simple. If one worker works in a micro-enterprises and another in a general tax regime, the sum of the social security minimum must be EUR 122. Summarize! So the micro-enterprise owner must understand what part he covers while working elsewhere, and what part he needs to cover... and how to allocate this deficit proportionately. A very simple example: a person works in two micro-enterprises: one receives EUR 400, and the other receives EUR 500. There is no total social security contribution of EUR 122. How do I allocate it proportionately? So we also need to deal with all these issues of micro-enterprises tax. I fully agree with Mr Liepiņš in the sense that the rule of 9 per cent must come into force as soon as possible - either from 1 January or from the date of adoption, I do not know. If there is a very complex refund mechanism and the amounts to be repaid are small, then perhaps from the date of acceptance. But we need to send out a clear signal to the public that there are no negative trends that Mr Putra has been talking about - that the public does not know what will happen, and therefore slow down the start of any new initiatives, because it does not know what will happen in the future. We need to make it very clear that these 9 percent will be and that we will do so precisely and as soon as possible. But in one way, I absolutely disagree with Mr. Liepiņš. About the memory, I quote that everyone is a naughty man working in a micro-entrepreneur... Well, it sounds rather apprehensive, and I would ask Mr Liepiņš to climb again in the quarry because he has this opportunity and to withdraw what he said, because it does not sound good, in my opinion. ( Medications.) Observing citizens who have set up micro-enterprises in accordance with the procedure laid down by the legislator, within the limits laid down by the legislator, are honorable and respected citizens and are not wasteful. If the legislator has left the loopholes used by others for tax optimisation, only the legislator is to blame. That's about the owners talking about. On the other hand, it should be understood that if one businessman tells his employees one day: “I re-register for a micro company!” then they only have one very simple choice - go away or stay working in a micro-entrepreneur. So, Mr. Liepiņš, to call them the Gentiles - I think that is simply unfair. ( From the drug depot. D.Liepiņš: “Observe your ears!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U79	Thank you. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U80	Colleagues! The story of micro-enterprises is one good example of how some policy initiatives are made in Latvia. The situation has been assessed, it has been clear that such a easing, special tax treatment is needed to facilitate business start-up. Ministers together with the Saeima have worked on this solution. The solution is in place. A certain time has elapsed since this preferential tax regime started to function. The good news, which is rare in Latvian policies, has also been evaluated. And in assessing this time, while the micro-enterprises tax has been used, a number of very serious problems have been identified, and that will not be the case for this Saeima, unfortunately and perhaps even for the next, but even for the next Saeima, which means that a number of people are at risk of social security. This also means the effect that such a widespread spread of micro-enterprises leaves on the competitiveness of the Latvian economy, on which some colleagues here in the hall, regularly and always hurt their hearts. Then tell me, please, how we will get to a competitive economy in the micro-enterprises regime and what will be the specific, undisclosed product in the world with which we will be able to work well at such a regime! But unfortunately, after this assessment has been made, revealing the problems that should be corrected and even the agreement has been reached, and even the decision of the Saeima has been made, then unfortunately, comes, as happens in Latvia, insurmountable power, which is elections. And then, all the people who, with all reason, have decided that the mistakes in the regulation of micro-enterprises must be corrected, retracted and promises to the voters, I would like to say: irresponsiblely promises to the voters! - to maintain the regime in which it is clearly known that these voters will be hostages of our indecision and will pay a terrible price in reality in their old age, as colleagues have already said, with these absolutely insufficient pensions. So, since the next elections are far enough, maybe let us find something like common courage, and let us still make decisions that seem to be unpopular but absolutely necessary to increase the social guarantees of micro-entrepreneurs by setting a regime that does not make our economy a hostage of unproductive business! The other thing I'd like to say. Mr. Liepiņš' speech contained at least one serious error of reasoning, namely that micro-enterprises are the way in which the unemployed are able to employ themselves. And right away the next fact that the largest number of micro-enterprises - almost 70 percent - are localized, founded in Riga. Please remind me when Riga has been the most lenient region of unemployment in Latvia? I don't really remember anything. ( Medications.) That means - it is actually a mistake of reasoning. What does it mean that in Riga, where unemployment has traditionally been the lowest in the country, where for years there are no problems in finding a qualified employee, the number of micro-enterprises is the highest? I am sorry, this fact leads me to think that it is an opportunity for tax optimisation and not for the employment of the unemployed. And I would suggest. Our former colleague Elīna Siliņa defended her master's work at the University of Latvia by looking directly at the micro-enterprises' regime and the effects it gives. Read it! I'm very much recommending that you read it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U81	Thank you. Name to Member Dainie Liepiņš, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U82	(From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Well is it or isn’t it?” ) Yes, in this case, I probably have to apologize specifically to Mr Shadursky, because he did not hear the context I said about the tax on micro-enterprises and their Gentiles, but I said... The context was as follows: the Ministry of Finance and the members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission behave as if the members of micro-enterprises were illegal. So I have a request: I hope... you can also take a stenogram and read twice this text. The next question is what Mrs Viņķele said. I understand that Mrs Viņķele has probably been a worker rather than an employer in her life. Therefore, it is quite difficult for her to understand the basic logic that 70 percent of the legally established codes that are micro-enterprises (with one employee most likely) are concentrated in Riga, but those unemployed, as once, are in those regions that have engaged in micro-enterprises and are working. So, Mrs. Viņķele, first maybe get to know things in practice and then start theoreting because you don't have the knowledge in this area! ( A circle of the ZZS fraction and the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U83	Thank you. The name to Member Edgars Putra, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U84	Yes, during the discussion, many and very interesting things came out, which I found, so I wanted to get up a second time in the platform and explain. ( From the medicine: “Arise to what? ” ) First of all, it is possible to start with the fact that 1 percent in Riga is not the same as 50 percent elsewhere in Latvia. It also explains very well this difference... And yet, Riga has its capital! The other thing I see. We still compare me with the elephant, that is, the micro-enterprises' taxable persons with the others who work, including the industry giants... Why do we not compare micro-enterprises tax payers and micro-enterprises working outside the micro-enterprises tax regime? The third thing. On the sectors. There are, of course, sectors that perhaps do not deserve the tax treatment of these micro-enterprises. However, there are also many sectors... It is natural that there are those who do not need this complicated accounting - such as children's day centres, sports events organizers and so on. For optimisation. We have already discussed and asked a specific question to the same people of the State Revenue Service. The law “On Personal Income Tax” contains a norm on hiring personnel, there are four specific features. And in the past, certain companies were called... Well, I don't know... its signs... At least one of them works... So there's a question: why isn't it applied? It's also... Right here, too, people have said that this is actually a question for us, the legislators, for ourselves. On unemployment and on the topicality of this MUN regime at all. This is about the shadow economy. The shadow economy grew after the Saeima decided to increase this rate gradually. Unemployment is also growing at the moment, so the draft law is still up to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U85	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U86	Yeah. Dear colleagues, I will have both a comment and, at the same time, a proposal on the deadline for the submission of proposals. In particular, we have to wait for the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers - a joint opinion! - because at the moment we have a disagreement between two ministries and the Constitution obliges us to have one opinion from the government. That's one. Second. We must also get the opinion of the government - a unified opinion! - on the fiscal impact, because we must not violate another Article of the Satversme, that is to say, we must not adopt a law that has a negative fiscal impact if we do not indicate the sources of compensation. In view of all this, I would like to propose, on behalf of the Commission, a deadline for the submission of proposals, 26 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U87	Yeah. Thank you. It was a comment after the debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U88	Yes, honourable colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U89	... but we still have to decide on support for the first...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U90	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U91	Yeah. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. There is now an opportunity to set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U92	Yeah. Dear colleagues, Since I have already rushed in front of the requirements of the Order Roll, again - this time the Order Roll in due time! - To repeat: February 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U93	Please turn on the microphone for Edgar Putr!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U94	In view of the seriousness and relevance of this draft law, I propose that the deadline for the submission of proposals be set at 19 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U95	So two deadlines for submitting proposals are proposed - February 19 and February 26. So, first of all, the next deadline must be decided. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law”, which is February 26, 2015. Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 52, refraining from - 1. This proposal is therefore not supported. Please call me! Let's vote for... So it's not... So the deadline for submitting proposals is automatically supported - February 19. Thank you. Therefore, the deadline for submitting proposals is February 19, 2015. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda, draft decision “On consent 12...” I am sorry, colleagues! So the next item on the agenda is the bill "Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance", second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Buiķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U96	Dear Members, honourable Members, I hope that this draft law will not give rise to any problems. So four proposals have been received. One proposal is purely technical. The Social and Labour Commission suggests using the word "amendments" in the title, because we have four proposals. And the next three are...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U97	That's the first proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U98	... supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U99	With the support of the Commission, and Members do not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U100	The following three proposals are proposals from the Minister for Welfare Plant and all relate to Article 34 on ‘Detentions from maternity, paternity, parental illness and funeral benefits’. All the proposals were approved unanimously by the Commission. I call for support to be given to 2. - The plant proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U101	So, proposal 2. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U102	Proposal No 3 also contains the Plant proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U104	And Proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U106	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U107	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U108	The Commission agreed on 13 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U109	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 13 February this year. The next item is the draft decision on consent to the further trial of the criminal case of the 12th Saeima Member Daiņa Liepiņa. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U110	Dear Bureau, honourable Members. The Board of Mandates, Ethics and Application of Saeima received and discussed the application of 28 January 2015 by Jelgava Court at the meeting of the committee on 4 February 2015. The Commission prepared and unanimously supported the draft decision of the Saeima “For consent to the subsequent trial of the criminal case of the 12th Saeima Member Daiņa Liepiņš”. I invite you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U111	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Dainie Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U112	So, honourable colleagues! I'm sorry to be too emotional and chaotic at some point, because this thing, let's say, is very personal for me. This thing... I will ask you, however, to read, because this is very dangerous for the country as such, because it is absurd what is doing and what is being presented as criminal proceedings that can affect any of you, because the reasons used are shocking. And so: ‘I consider that the criminal proceedings, the prosecution of a criminal offence provided for in the second part of Article 219 of the Criminal Law, ‘Prescription of false particulars in a declaration of public officials’, have been initiated unduly against me. Their goals: first of all, by the methods of criminal proceedings, to influence several civil disputes between me and my opponents SIA INTRANSERVISS in Jelgava, who were also related to Jelgava municipality company Jelgava bus park and who illegally - ignoring the procurement procedures established by laws and regulations! - concluded a contract for outsourcing with the “INTRANSERVISS” Ltd., mentioned earlier. Secondly, this is a political settlement within Jelgava, because the mayor of the city Rāviņš is the shareholder of the company Jelgava Bus Park. And all the reproofs I've been making for six years... and the conclusions later drawn by the Procurement Monitoring Office, the State Audit Office, have been directly based on my applications. I do not fully recognise my blame for the criminal offences that I have committed and believe that the accusation against me is unfounded and absurd. I would like to point out that neither the law enforcement authorities nor the tax authorities have found that, because of the information contained in the declaration by the official of the State, I would have avoided the payment of taxes or charges equivalent to them, legalized the proceeds of crime and otherwise caused damage to the State, the municipality or the private person. I would like to point out that, at the time, on 18 May 2012 and 6 July 2012, when examining the applications of the KNAB and the Prosecutor's Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Financial Police of the State Revenue Service refused to initiate criminal proceedings following Section 219 of Criminal Law due to the lack of the composition of the criminal offence. Only a week later, when this was done, was the application of the sworn lawyer Balan, Spilbridge, who was addressed to the Prime Minister Dombrovskis, the Minister for Justice, Kozlovskis, the Minister for the Interior of the time, the Prosecutor General, the Chairman of Jelgava City Council, the media... Only then did prosecutor Masļakova cancel these previous cases and initiated criminal proceedings. There has been a lot of talk about it - seven violations! And I will now read these irregularities in order not to interfere with your time, because I have nothing to hide from my constituents, not before you, nor before anyone else. And these violations are as follows: The first infringement - did not show the value of the shares according to the current situation. Yeah, I admit my fault. All the time wrote in the foundation amount - 9 thousand lats. At one point there was a capitalised return and 163. Losses to own society, individuals - zero. The next violation. Sale of the land to your daughter. It was found to be an infringement by the public prosecutor’s office. It appears that the court concluded that everything is legal and that everything is transferred according to the law. This was not noticed by the prosecutor's office. Third infringement. Revenue from income generated at the Freeport of Riga, which has all been through the bank, is indicated in all possible... extracts from banks. At the same time, the prosecutor's office considers this to be a wonderful violation... , but at the same time, the State Revenue Service concludes that everything is fine - there is no violation. The fourth infringement. The loan is shown in two parts and not aggregated, although all previous declarations have been mentioned and indicated for several years. I would admit: I was wrong mathematically. But no loss to society or to an individual has been caused. The fifth infringement. It is forgotten to put a whole chapter (correcting the error) into place for previous loans, which has been shown for five years in all declarations. Again, no damage has been caused. I would admit that I was guilty of not seeing this mistake. Sixth violation. I haven't shown up my car, which was registered in the CSDD and owned by me for 10 years. I'll admit: I didn't notice electronically that this error had occurred (Interdependences from the drug, laughter.) The question is again: where is this loss to individuals, the state and society? And the seventh. There is no indication that the sale of the property by contract by way of a transfer to a bank took place. Again: Who has the loss been incurred? Nobody!” Therefore, honourable colleagues, I really ask you to vote in favour of bringing my case to justice, and I hope that this situation will ultimately also be crowned by the clarification of the way in which private lawyers clarify what the Financial Police is doing and then appeal to such demands. And that's what puts the next thing on such absurd demands... further these criminal appeals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U113	Thank you. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U114	Colleagues, I have a short reply. After hearing this speech, I understand that the next time I am stopped by a road policeman and I will not be hung up. — SAVE: “Ai, ai, ai!” ; dep. I.Zariņš: “Don’t flick?” ), I will do two things. First of all, I'm going to ask, ‘ Do you know who I am? ’ ( Medications. Depp. A.Kamiņa Aples.) And then I will tell them: there is no penalty for this, because there is no damage to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U115	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does the rapporteur want to add something? No, no. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On consent to the further trial of the criminal case of the 12th Saeima Member Daiņa Liepiņa”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 86, for - no, for - 1. The draft decision is therefore adopted. Colleagues, as issues on the agenda have been discussed, I must inform you about the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”. This item is not closed and the Bureau will have to decide on its inclusion on the agenda of the next meeting. In response to Members' questions. A question-and-answer meeting is scheduled for today, February 5, at 17.00. I informed you about Member's question to the Minister of Transport Anri Matīss, the Minister of Transport, Arthur Rubika, Tutina, Ribakova and Pimenova about the validity of the research results of Rail Baltica project and the action of the Ministry of Transport in relation to them. The applicants continue to get to know the answer given by the Minister, but they do not want to ask additional questions. The question is considered to have been answered. Regarding the question of Member Zarina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina, Ribakova and Pimenova to the Minister of Transport Anria Matīss about the implementation of the detailed technical research of the railway section of Rail Baltica of the European Standard Width. A written reply has been received. For the time being, the supplementary questions are not open to the applicants and the question is considered to have been answered. Regarding Member Elksniņa, Nikonova, Ribakova, Tutina and Raimonds Rubika, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the Situation of Daugavpils Locomotive Repair Plant”. The question was addressed to the Minister of Transport, Anry Matīss. The written responses shall be granted. Regarding the question of Member Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Agešina, Arthur Rubika and Tutina to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On public administration contracts for the provision of advisory services”. A written reply which does not satisfy the applicants has been received. The Prime Minister informed us that he could not come today to give an oral answer. So the answer can be moved to the next sitting. Regarding Member Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Agešina, Arthur Rubika and Tutina, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On public administration contracts with legal service providers”. A written reply was received, which does not satisfy the applicants, but the Prime Minister informed them that he could not attend the oral response. This question must therefore also be moved to the next question and answer session. Regarding Member Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Clementyeva, Raimonda Rubika and Mirska's question to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On contracts with SIA Auto Blitz”. The written responses are not satisfied, but the Prime Minister informed that he could not attend the oral response. This question must therefore also be moved to the next question and answer session. Issues of Members Silver, Shifas, May, Platoper, Baloža and Kūtra to the Minister for Welfare Uldis Augums “On National Social Care Centres”. A written reply has been received, but the applicants are not satisfied. The Minister can come today to give an oral answer. In connection with Member of the Parliament for Silver, Shifas, May, Plato, Baloža and Kūtra, Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile “On Support for the Sport of People with Disabilities”. A written reply which does not satisfy the applicants has been received. The Minister can attend today to give an oral answer. On the question of Membership of Silver, Shimfa, May, Platoper, Cura and Baloža to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On responsibility and state budget expenditure for participation in Expo exhibition”. The question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, and the Minister can come to give an oral answer. On the question of Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “About World Expo 2015”. The question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The answer will be made within today's time and the Minister will inform you that an oral reply can be made. A question-and-answer meeting will therefore take place today at 5 p.m. New questions have also been put to Members. Members Zarins, Agešins, Elksniņš, Tutins and Urbanovičs have asked Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Minister for Economics about World Expo 2015. It will be submitted for a reply. Members Zarins, Agešins, Elksniņš, Tutins and Urbanovičs have also tabled the question “On the Prime Minister’s statements in the mass media in the context of the World Expo 2015”. This will be passed on to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Zarins, Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins and Ribakovs have also submitted a question to the Minister for Transport, Anrijs Matīss, about the future development of AS Air Baltic Corporation. It will also be submitted for a reply. Colleagues! Since we have to register at the end of the sitting, please call! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Thank you. The results of the registration are collected and as soon as they are available, the name will be given to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U116	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Aija Barča, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Māris Kučinskis, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Romanas Mežeckis, Nikita Nikiforovs, Sergey Potapkins, Valdis Skujiņš, Silvija Šimfas, Dzintars Zaķis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-02-05-PT12-283-U117	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
