ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U1	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We started the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 8 July. The first section of the agenda is entitled ‘The Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted’. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “On disposal of real estate “Dispečeri” in Taurene municipality, Vecpiebalga municipality, for public needs – for the implementation of the Gauja bridge reconstruction project on the state highway P30 Cesis-Vecpiebalga-Madona 32,3. km’ shall be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Operational Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the member Belēvičs, Vectirāns, Brigmanis, Dambe and Putra be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the member Belēvičs, Vectirāns, Brigmanis, Dambe and Putra be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on National Statistics” submitted by member Belēvičs, Vectirāns, Brigmanis, Dambe and Putra be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Protocol on the Agreement of 23 August 2010 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the simplification of journeys between residents of the border areas of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda, draft decision on the release of Ainars Diamond from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On June 18, the Saeima Bureau decided to delegate to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs Member Artusa Kaimina, Daiņa Liepiņa, Solvita Āboltiņa, Augusta Brigmanis, Ingmara Līdakas, Mārtiņš Bondara, Inguna Silverba, Gunāra Kūtra, Mārtiņš Šics, Andra Siliņa and Kārlis Šadurskis the application on the dismissal of the members of the National Council for Electronic Media. The Commission has dealt with this issue by voting and deciding on each member of the Board. In its meeting, the Commission decided by a majority of votes to remove Ainara Diamond from office as a member of the National Electronic Media Council on the basis of Article 59(3) of the Law on Electronic Media and in accordance with Article 56, third paragraph. I would like to add that this is not an administrative act subject to administrative proceedings, but a political decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U4	Hello, dear colleagues! I do not know what Ainārs Diamonds, the President of the NEPLP, was thinking about when the violations discovered by the State Audit Office were committed. I don't know what he was hoping for, who motivated him, what good intentions led him to shout, what souls he suffered when he deliberately violated the law. I do not know how he felt at the moment when the advance transfers were made on 30 December, despite the fact that the State Audit Office had warned NEPLP about the unlawful nature of such conduct and that it would be verified. I do not want to say that I do not have a complete interest in this. I have to admit that I have a little interest in Diamond's motivation. Perhaps he thought that the State Audit Office would not respect the violation, maybe he was convinced that he was a good owner. Likely, he thought he'd let me in where he sounds, you don't sound like me. But at the moment, we are dealing with something that has no connection with Diamond's motivation to act lightly with taxpayers' money. Just like this, there is no connection with media freedom, the risks of self-censors' self-censorship, different meanings of the rule of law, or other concepts read in textbooks about which the public media is unreasonably arousing moral panic. If Anda Rožukalne, if Sarmīte Ēlerte and others really wanted to be useful to society, they could carry out and publish a study on the psychological profile of taxpayers' money wastagers, where Diamond would be a very good and typical prototype. Dear colleagues, I would like to congratulate you on sending a clear message to the public through the vote on the release of Ainars Diamonds. The opinion of the State Audit Office - it's not an empty sound! The time has passed when the officials could have scoffed for their liking without any consequences. For many years, the public has been outrageted by the deliberate negligence and ridicule of the officials on the conclusions of the State Audit Office. This is the first great victory of the State Audit Office and taxpayers, your voters, over the cynicism of money owners. There is still much work to be done. This is what taxpayers expect of us, but this is a big step in the right direction. I ask you to vote in favour of the dismissal of Ainars Diamonds.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U5	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U6	Dear colleagues, ‘ One law – one right for all” – such an inscription decorates the meeting hall of the Cabinet of Ministers, reminding that everyone is equal before the law that every citizen of Latvia must comply with the laws and comply with them. On the other hand, a lack of knowledge of the law does not justify a failure to comply with the law. Today, when assessing the work of the National Electronic Media Council, I call for it to be seen only through the prism of the law, that is, whether the law has been respected. If the law has not been observed, must the Board and its Chairman be responsible and are any violations of the law sufficient grounds for dismissing all the Board or only the Chairman of the Board? I therefore call for a distinction to be drawn from the statements made by various experts in the public space that today the Saeima decides almost to restrict democracy and freedom of expression in the country. Yes, the Council has violated the laws, and this has been established by the State Audit Office in its audit. Read the State Audit Office report, please! The Council has failed to comply with the requirements of the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management because it has paid advances on outstanding orders. The Council has failed to comply with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act due to the lack of appropriate procurement procedures. The Council has failed to comply with the prohibitions laid down in the Law on the Prevention of Waste of Financial Resources and Property of a Public Person. There is absolutely no point in the argument: “All do it!” Why is responsibility from the board, but from others - no? In cases where the law is infringed by ministries, the Prime Minister and Ministers must be held liable by the heads of the relevant institutions for the errors committed. In turn, requesting a response from the heads of independent institutions, for example, from the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court or the Prosecutor General, is only the competence of the Saeima. And in this case it is the Saeima that must be responsible and act if it sees non-compliance with the law. The Council is not all! It is one of the independent and supervisory bodies, which must not only act in accordance with the law but also demonstrate to the public the application of the principle of good governance in every action. More! These violations have occurred in aggravating circumstances. Already in 2013, the State Audit Office found violations in advance payments, compliance with the Law on Public Procurement, as well as concluded service contracts. Instead of actively acting and preventing errors, the Board’s management calmly continued its established practice and acted illegally. We see that the executive is currently demonstrating a policy of absolute irresponsibility, and even the Prime Minister is in the public opinion that illegal pre-financing is not a reprehensible act because it has been done in good faith. In contrast, the State Revenue Service would immediately punish the businessman if it found that at the end of the year it made large amounts of advance payments for services planned to be received sometime in the long term. For taxpayers' money, however, there may be exceptions. Officials can act safely, for the law does not already have to be observed. Moreover, they are difficult to apply. ‘ From the heart to Latvia” believes: if there is a law, then it must be fulfilled! If the law is not enforced, it must be held accountable. We believe that in the case of the National Electronic Media Council, non-compliance with the law must be brought to the attention of the Council as a whole, as the chairman of the Council is elected from among his own members. At the same time, the process of evaluation of the work of the Council also received reflections on the procedure and its transparency, which are currently proposing the expression of distrust to senior officials and their dismissal. Therefore, in order not to call into question the adequacy of procedures and the validity of decisions of the Saeima in the future, we invite the Ministry of Justice to submit in the near future the law of the Saeima regarding the removal of state senior officials from office. As you know, the impeachment procedure is one that allows not only legal but also political evaluation, justification of the responsibility of each official, transparency of the decision-making process. And, in our view, it will also remove the doubts that are at this point, considering that the Saeima has not decided at this point in time in any reasonable or transparent way. ‘ Indeed, Latvia is invited to vote in favour of the release of the entire council, and this vote will demonstrate what we legislators understand with responsibility for the lawful use of taxpayers' money - whether the laws adopted by the Saeima must be respected by only a few, or whether one law applies to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U7	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mrs Silver has now proposed the creation of an empire legislative package. Perhaps then, too, we could have seen the Inquisition Package: the Inquisition Political Package! - make it? This would mean that anyone in the country can make a political decision, depending on what the prevailing political setting is. ( FROM a faction: “When hasn’t it been? ” ) Dear colleagues! Mrs Silver spoke about this "prepayment" situation and pointed out that there is indeed uncertainty at the moment as to how public authorities, when they are dealing with public budgets, transfer and how they are dealing with amounts that have been left over and which are likely to be used in the following year. But, colleagues, the solution to this issue is not the issue of the National Electronic Media Council! It is a question of the Cabinet of Ministers and, above all, a question of good management of budgetary resources by the Saeima. And, you see, it's our unscrupulous homework! Dear colleagues, Mrs Silver also stressed that we should live on the principle: “One law is one justice for all.” But with regard to the National Electronic Media Council, in my view, this is the way in which four officials are incriminating against a collective guilt. A.Kamiņš: “We are talking about Diamond!” Rather, we are guided by the principle: “Give the man: let us find the article.” And in this case, the State Audit Office report is found in this way. Mrs. Krumina, Auditor General of the State, at the sitting of the Saeima Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, it was very clear to Members that the year 2014... that there are seven different bodies whose annual report has been agreed without reservations and with recommendations. The National Electronic Media Council is one of these institutions. Mrs. Krumina encouraged Members to look at anyone else just as carefully... the responsibilities of another official with regard to these seven reports. Colleagues! Today, encouraging the release of four officials of the National Electronic Media Council, the Saeima has missed an excellent opportunity to assess the work of the Council in these three and a half years, and to assess how the National Electronic Media Council has responded to the Board. Impressions. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) the capacity to work with the protection of the information space, to prepare draft laws, to respond in a timely manner to problems arising in the media, and so on. Colleagues! Today, Members who did not attend the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs last week do not know at all what we are voting on today, because the Saeima has not added any supporting document that Members could have read and could have met. There are only draft decisions here that do not offer the Commission's reasoning. ( The drug is getting more noise. (See the box below.) Colleagues! Mr Diamond's accusation is based on a 10-minute speech accusation and a discussion that followed. For the other members, the evaluation was made in around two sentences. Dear colleagues, this is not serious! At present, the High Representative of the European Commission for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Mogherini, has proposed a strategic communication plan for the European Union. It is the national media regulators who have a very important role to play in combating the information war that is currently taking place against the European Union. Who will fight this on our part? Are these four poor people who are currently subjected to political persecution? Who will fight? I call for the vote to be made against this draft law and indeed for serious consideration to be given to the responsibility of the Saeima, including questions on how to distinguish the functions of the Council with regard to the commercial order of public contracts, how to make sure that public media finally exit the advertising market. There is a working group in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, chaired by Mr. Kaimiņš, but nothing is available there. At the moment, only four heads are offered. I do not support these decisions. ( From the drug depot. A.Kamiņš: Two! ) (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U9	Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U10	Dear President, I would like to ask to allow me to combine the two speaking times in one and to speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U11	Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. So, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Dear defenders of Mr. Diamond! First, some explanations. I do not oppose the freedom of the press in Latvia. I am not opposed to an independent media regulator. I don't have a hidden motive. ( FROM a political group, ‘ Don’t be right! ’) ) I do not play political games. I do not want to destabilise the supervision of the public media. I don't work with things that I don't have. I'm not trying to influence the media. I don't want to put pressure on and scare the content makers. I am not trying to transfer the practice of the Council in today's Latvia. I do not want to disrupt the democracy of Latvia's country. I don't make myself above the law. I am not turning to a state of law. ( From the drug depot. Elksniņš: “Well, okay, okay! Let’s believe!” ) I am referring only to the unlawful use of taxpayers’ money. It is unacceptable that the head of the direct administration violates the law. A number of laws! First, the Law on Public Procurement, in particular the fourth paragraph of Article 9, which prohibits the artificial award of a contract in order to avoid procurement procedures. Mr. Diamond has awarded a contract worth EUR 10 007 in three contracts to conclude without tender a contract with the office “Borenius” of the sworn lawyer Laura Liepas. Secondly. Mr Diamond has violated the Law on Budget and Financial Management, in particular the first paragraph of Article 46, which states that the heads of institutions financed from the budget are responsible for compliance with, compliance with and control of the procedures and requirements laid down in this Law, as well as for the efficient and economic use of budget resources in accordance with the intended objectives. Mr Diamond, however, costs a businessman more than €54 800 for a service that has not been provided, because the number of programmes and stories produced is less than that stipulated in the contract. In addition, no act of acceptance and transfer is drawn up, and only during the audit of the State Audit Office, when these facts are revealed, undue payment is made as an advance payment, which is also illegal. Mr. Diamond also pays more than EUR 7 000 to an employee when concluding a service contract with him for the performance of the work which falls within his direct duties and for which he receives a salary. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “And what are all ministries doing?” ) Moreover, such activities are taking place again, as Mr. Diamond had already been caught by doing the same thing in 2013. Thirdly. Mr. Diamond has violated the Law on Budgets and Financial Management, in particular Section 5, Paragraph 4 of this Law, which states that the expenditure of the State budget consists of appropriations determined for specific State needs, in accordance with the annual state budget law, and he has violated the Law on the State Budget for 2014, i.e. Mr. Mr. Diamond has unlawfully transferred advances to “Latvian Television” and “Latvian Radio” for the amount of 1.7 million. Overall, the NEPLP conducts more than 20 million euros of state budget funds in the year, and the audit of the State Audit Office has revealed that the Council has not effectively handled the funds in the amount of 1.8 million euros. Nine percent of your brother! Tell me, colleagues, isn't that a little bit too much? I would like to point out that Mr. Dimantas is not only a media supervisor, media strategist and guarantor of freedom of the press in Latvia, but also the head of the state administration, so he is responsible for the legality of the institution's activities and the legitimate use of the funds. A person can violate the law unintentionally, by negligence, by ignorance, or intentionally. Unfortunately, the explanations given by Mr. Diamond at the parliamentary committee meeting show that Mr. Diamond had deliberately violated the law, as he pointed out in his replies that the law had been useful and argued with the specifics of the media market. Violation of the law is unethical. Ethical nature violations undermine reputation, and reputation is not a constant size that does not change during human life. Therefore, the arguments that Mr. Saeima Diamond has been elected with such a reputation are, in fact, naive and foolish. Unfortunately, before his appointment to the National Council for Electronic Media, Mr Diamond did not have any experience in direct management, and he still does not understand the role of the Head. In the context of this draft decision, there has recently been a cult of so many empty straws! Media experts have heard many speculations, conspiracy theories, empty fictions and slanders, including the fact that the applicants are targeting the rule of law. Dear colleagues, this is actually a story about Jupiter and the bull. My priority is the rule of law, and Jupiter is allowed in the legal state just as much as the bull. The NEPLP President must also comply with the law - even if it is Jupiter's bright Olympics; even if it is Mr Diamond. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U13	Name to Member Andris Buics.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U14	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues! I heard about the Inquisition and I want to say my arguments that I am not a member of the Inquisition Commission. To be honest, when Diamond was elected President of this Council, I was actually pleased because a little... Ten years ago, we worked on the Chath Foundation, and he published a book about Chath. And I mean, well, very coherent! But there is a very specific thing - reputation. And here in November last year, it seems, on 20 November, I was in Germany at the invitation of the Belarusian Society (they paid for the road and the hotel, the rest had to pay for themselves), and the meeting was a three-day meeting, and there were many people from Latvia, from different districts - people who collaborated with the Germans who lived in the Baltics. Every year they hold such meetings, and they invite me as a representative of Parliament, and there were representatives of Parliament from Estonia and Lithuania too... And since we were invited, I was honest there for those three days. Suddenly, on the second day, Mr. Diamond appeared somewhere around noon. You know, about the way the Pope of Rome comes and negotiates his talk. I cannot say the beginning of this speech because it was not very consistent, but in the end, of course, there was such a very incoherent phrase that this incomparable Saeima here does not give the money they are asking for. I also worked for one time at the Human Rights Commission, and I was ready to say some arguments because there were students there... By the way, Latvian students came from Switzerland, and from Germany all were very deaf, including the German party's paid dinner. Mr. Diamond wasn't... But I had no idea who to say. I told you, as a pope of Rome, he gave his solemn speech and disappeared. I think if he was in that sitting, it happened like I did - an official invitation came. Well, don't go at all, don't show that you've been there... And with this you justify your failure. And, in fact, I see in other things, too, that Mr. Diamond, as the leader, is absolutely wrong. I will not vote in favour of other members of the Council, but to be honest, I cannot support Mr Diamond. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš is a better friend.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U15	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U16	President of the Saeima, colleagues! Here it has been said several times that one law is one truth for all. Indeed, if we look at Section 56 of the Law on Electronic Media (From Hall Deposit. I.Rīna: “This time there is nothing!” ), it determines how that organisation or institution is an independent institution, while at the same time Article 59 explains in at least three points how the members of that council can be dismissed. And only in accordance with paragraph 3 are we, by nature, the eleven colleagues, the applicant... Following their advice, we can dismiss them because of the loss of reputation. Indeed, fellow Member Kārlis Šadurskis has just spoken about the violation of the Law on Budget and Financial Management. Mrs. Silver mentioned a number of laws in which irregularities were committed. I can really agree on the violations of these laws, but just like Mrs Silver has said, and Mrs Chigan has also said, the opinion of the State Audit Office referred to at least seven more bodies that were successively referred to by the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit and later... In the Saeima, we should also start exactly the same procedure for the unfair conduct of officials and the waste of public funds. At the joint meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit and the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mārtiņš Bondars pointed out several times that the NEPNP website lacks sufficient transparency on what has been done and how it has been done. Thus, when looking at this website, I also reviewed the reports of the State Audit Office on the previous achievements of other colleagues. For example, the State Audit Office Report of 2005/2006 on the work of the State Chancellery does not appear at all on the State Audit Office's website. In the financial statement for the year 2004, it is very clear, in Mārtiņš, that “send a letter to the leadership of the Latvian Presidential Chancellery regarding the audit of the financial statement and the deficiencies found”. So it's all over there! At the same time, if we look at the opinion of the State Audit Office of 23 April 2004 on the Ministry of Education and Science, then it is very clearly stated that the state ownership contribution of 1 547 279 lats, which is the state scientific and scientific information institutions, the registered capital of the non-profit organisation “Latvian academic library”, has not been accounted for in other business activities as well, and that the entrepreneurship of other ministries and institutions under their authority and 23 years reports on the performance of scientific contracts, increasing the amount of assets and liabilities to the end of the reporting period by 279 693 lats and the beginning of the reporting period - by 383 510 lats. And finally. On 26 April 2006 it is also very clearly stated that the head of the Ministry of Justice is not organized according to the requirements of regulatory enactments. At the end of each month, no totals - account debit and credit turnover and balances of these accounts have been calculated in the magazine, ledger and analytical account. The headbook on 2005 presented by the audit has been prepared without data of Riga Regional Court, without turnover of the salary account and with unrealistic balance of the account at the beginning of the year, for example, the balance of the basic budget account has been shown 7 million, although according to the State Treasury data it is only 157 thousand... ( From the medicines ’ intermediate: “On the decision! The decision!’ ) That's right, I'll finish right away! Therefore, in order to ensure the same methods of accounting and evaluation, here is the recommendation of the State Audit Office to the Ministry of Justice - to establish common guidelines for subordinate institutions in the development of accounting policy and organization of accounting. What do I mean by that? This disease and these problems with public officials and the supervision of public authorities here are ‘with beard’. Consequently, it would simply be neither correct nor correct to remove NEPT from the context. If we want to take the lead, then it is in your power - you can decide it, but you can pull it out of the context - it would not be wise, so first of all you should look at the nature of what is done... how the Saeima itself is inaction to draft a budget law or to develop a policy, and only then can you turn to an official... talk about abandonment, which is by nature not really legal. Thank you. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U17	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U18	Colleagues! In the 12th Saeima, in this term, some new censors promised a new political culture for this term. Today is the day - we are celebrating the first decision of a new political culture of such a good, orderly nature. Today is the day when, in a house in which we should keep holy not only the letter of the law but also the spirit, we will simply make a political settlement case: we in the form of a decision - with legislative power! - Let's do what everyone's on the heart. For one person, it has been a long time of personal disgust; it is finally the collection of invoices when what is not visible to the public's eyes, which is not visible in the group's sittings and in the board's sittings... It hates and some form of hysterical manifestations culminate in the decision, the collection of bills, and finally things are arranged. A person who doesn't like it is finally put to place! Another attempt is to serve the interests of the lobby. Just fortify things! There has been a task, a man has come to the Saeima, fought like crazy; he finally gets his decision, he gets what he's done here because he's delegated from some lobby groups. This is a very dangerous trend. Very dangerous! I think that its consequences are not known because it is a precedent - a precedent! - question. We like it, we don't like it! And the interests of the lobby are strengthened today by the power of the law. We are not aware that it can also address each of us in certain situations. If nothing else tells you, think that in the same way someone will be able to decide on something else at a change of circumstances! The only way to survive correctly in the Saeima is to use law procedures in good faith, not to find situational solutions. I am really ashamed that I must also participate in this farce of today. I will certainly vote against. I call on people who have some common sense, self-preserve instinct and responsibility for the state to do the same: to vote 'no'. And I also call on our most active colleague, Artus Village, to finally fulfil the promise given to voters and to make the law (or what he had promised there) about the lobby so that we can finally be able to understand clearly who comes here, who is lobbying, who is lobbying... and so on. ( From the drug depot. A. Kaimiņš: “There will be, Mrs. Viņķele, there will be! I call for the vote in favour! ) I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U19	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U20	Dear colleagues, The situation with counsel is sad, but natural, and it is a direct consequence... the consequences of the procedure for the election of the Board. I would remind my colleagues that, at the beginning of 2012, the elections were held for the first time under the new rules. Prior to that, candidates were nominated by the parliamentary groups, and it was always the case that candidates from both the coalition and the opposition groups were elected. This time it was different: candidates were nominated by non-governmental organisations. Civil society has actively exercised such rights and 41 candidates were nominated as a whole. Our commission did much to listen to the candidates, to interview them, and so on. But at the same time, according to the same old, good traditions somewhere behind the bullets, two specific people agreed on five specific candidates. ( From the drug depot. I.Ryban's transcripts.) And the names of the future members of the Council were published in the media several weeks before the vote! It was an outstanding example of hypocrisy. And now we are facing consequences. What elections are there - this is also the Council! I very much agree with Mr Spolitis that the arguments put forward by the applicants of the proposal do not withstand criticism, because the State Audit Office criticises all. There is no judgment, there is no investigation, there is no criminal case. So far, it's too early to think about it. But let's look at the substance! Let us compare the work of this council with what the candidates promised before the elections. One of the main promises was to prevent media concentration. What do we see now? The fact that national televisions are, in fact, monopolised, is owned by a single owner. A great deal has been said about the single public media. It is really a very important task! A lot of money was spent, even a lot. What is the result? The concepts proposed by it were not approved. We're right where we were. The draft laws that we received from the board in the Commission are not only indecently designed but also very inconsistent, because after three, four, five days we receive a new draft law, where there is something completely different from the previous one. The Council says: yes, we figured out something else... the Commission together with the Office for Legal Affairs. In some way, these legislative initiatives must be brought together and put in place much less effort. And what is, in my view, the worst and most dangerous? The fact that a number of draft laws, which were, unfortunately, also accepted by the Saeima afterwards, are clearly adopted in the interests of certain market players. So I fully agree with Mrs Viņķele that such uncivilised lobbying is very dangerous, but this argument relates not only to the opponents of the current Council members, but also to the existing Council itself. So there are very serious problems there. I do not, of course, wish to offend someone with some suspicion, but I am simply asking everyone to look at the amendments we have recently voted on. Look at the market situation, and you will see for yourself how good these amendments were adopted. Yes, we are not really talking about public officials. The Council is an independent institution, and the law was also designed to defend its independence. The law does not allow us, as politicians, simply to dismiss members of the board because we do not like how they work. This safeguard mechanism therefore also exists for other independent bodies. At the same time, protective mechanisms are also needed against situations such as those that have arisen today. We also need to protect the people of Latvia against those people who abuse their independent position under the law. That is why I would say that this Council definitely deserves dismissal. How legally correct this can be - to be judged by lawyers. So far, I didn't hear... More precisely, there are very different, different legal opinions on the compliance of the submitted draft decision with the law. After all, let the Constitutional Court or any other relevant court decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U21	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U22	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Most likely I would not have come to the table today if my colleague, Mrs Viņķele, had not spoken about the instinct of common sense and self-preserve. We are talking about the institution and its management, which is responsible not only for the use of financial resources in accordance with the laws adopted in Latvia, but also the question of how state budget funds are used in mass media, which are public broadcasting, so radio, television, and which are also financed by state budget funds. And what is the content of these programmes? Less than a month ago, we had a very intense discussion here about the subject of morality when it comes to the Law on Education. Over the last two weeks, as Chair of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, I have received a whole range of different materials that deal with this issue, but they affect not morality in schools, but morality in the media and, above all, “Latvian Radio 5”. And I heard last night... I didn't lean, I went into the archive, and I listened to a number of programmes. And to be honest, I really didn't know what the words sounded in this radio... having previously known the contents... not, so say expropriation, but in advance knowing the content that is broadcast there... And I have to join the opinion of those Latvian voters who wrote to the Commission about the fact that such action is not acceptable and that the NEPT, which is monitoring, is not - it is not long ago! - performed what it must do when monitoring content and trying to limit content by means of law so that it is consistent with the general principles of morality, which are, by the way, also laid down in our Constitution. And regardless of what you, fellow Members, have talked about financial matters today, because of this one moral consideration, I am convinced that if we vote in favour of the dismissal of the members of the NAP who are responsible for the content of the Latvian Radio, we will have fulfilled what we have promised our constituents. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš is a better friend.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U23	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U24	Hello, colleagues! In view of my previous activity, I specifically chose this Saeima not to act in the commissions relating to public and commercial media, but this time, however, I will say a few words and start from the place where Mr Wuzana finished. You know, I'm a man with a lot of life experience, which includes as many as two years in the Soviet army, which wasn't the most aesthetic place. I think I've heard everything in this life and nothing can surprise me anymore, but when I listened to the Latvian Radio 5 texts, which have been in the air since winter and not just, you know, they surprised me. I would also recommend that the mother of three children, Mrs. Viņķele, read the full rehearsal of the texts of the song inserted yesterday, that is precisely about the woman, about the mother and so on. I advise you to read it, because if I were Mr. Diamond, after this one song, "Latvian Radio 5" would be closed. But let's get some emotions left! After all, we are not talking here about the Holy Peter, but we are talking about a state institution that is elected by the Saeima, which has the right to ask for some results from that state institution. And we ask the following big question: is there any improvement in the media over the last three years? No improvement! Are public and commercial media somehow on a single platform and trying to take care of the welfare of the people of the country together, patriotism? No, there's nothing like that! Public and commercial media are the days, the deeper and deeper each other is. Finally, before this sitting, I specifically spoke to both Mrs Laizane and Mrs Mūrniece, who have led this responsible commission for the last three years. According to them, the draft laws submitted by the NEEAP were all initially totally inapplicable. And practically all the amendments that have been adopted have all been adopted while working for the Commission and not for the NEPT. So I took the NEPLP public report for 2014. And what did I find there? That they have a whole secretariat that has... one, two, three... three lawyers and three other experts, as well as a very valuable contract with lawyer Mr. Liepas. Then there is the question: What do they think of themselves? And why is it that when they spend public funds, they carry an obvious brother to the Saeima? And I think that, however, we have the right to ask for some results from this commission, given that we also complied in good faith with Mr Diamond's first request, which he made when he took up his post, that is to say, to raise pay. And who receives it should work accordingly, so I call for a vote against Mr Diamond. Of course, the rest of these members can be thought of, but I think the radio monitor should also be on a different path. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U25	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U26	President-in-Office of the Saeima, fellow Members! I, like Member Sergeant, am coming out of the media and I have chosen not to work in this commission, but I will first put my position in one sentence: the Saeima should not only dismiss this Council, but should also not elect the next one. ( From the drug depot. V.Spolitis: Bravo! ) I remember very well the zealous discussions that have been here. And we're going to get to this order in the future on the same raven and let go. In time, I don't know, in months, or in years. Those arguments... Well, it is difficult for us to attract them, but we find them - so Article 59, the opinion of the State Audit Office, but the State Audit Office itself has said how disproportionate a step would nevertheless be to dismiss this Council. Reputation - Article 56. Well, what? The woods and woods may need to be remembered here and asked some good things. Well, what? So we want to make people laugh with this reputation? Because it is always in our reputation that we are wrong. All the campaigns are against us... and journalists of everything on the list. But about others: Yes, yes, yes! There, there, there, it's really right! And isn't it like watching over the last three years, maybe even more... I ask you to think about it, because the work of the Saeima is increasingly gaining the format of television shows. It's a bad sitting where someone isn't fine... I can't even find a polite word... Well, publicly... humiliatingly so crushed... All three... At least three functions the Saeima wants to assume. Not only legislation, but also justice. And there's a public trial... showing it all well and taking on its role as the so-called fourth power in its own way. Okay. Another compromise. The Council itself elects the President, and if we want only to dismiss the President, then they may have to think about it. And I would call for every member of the council to be bited down here, for the Saeima to think about what the Saeima should do first - legislation. Here, for several years now, we have been asking for a change in the law and for it to be drawn up before the end of the term of office of this Council: a - the change of the functions of the Council, and a second - the revision of which is the election of the Council. It can be seen that the Saeima simply fails to deal with this after the previous system. So I call on you to think about a new law, because there's a problem there. And in the end I will also say in one sentence, Stay in your place, let the council remain in its place. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U27	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the release of Ainars Diamond from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 8, for - 3. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the release of Aija Dulevsk from the office of a member of the National Council for Electronic Media. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U28	Colleagues, at the meeting on 2 July, the commission examined the application submitted by the Bureau “On the dismissal of Aija Dulevska from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council”, and the Commission did not support this draft decision. Please vote against!
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the dismissal of Aija Dulevsk from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 5, for - 51, for - 5. No decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the release of Mr Daiņa Mjartan from the office of a member of the National Council for Electronic Media. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U30	The Commission examined this draft decision and decided by a majority not to support the removal of Mr Dainis Mjartan from the role of a member of the National Electronic Media Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U31	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U32	Well, hello once again, honourable colleagues! I do not know what the NEPLP member Dainis Mjartāns was thinking when the 27th paragraph of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Electronic Media was adopted under his supervision. I don't know what he was hoping for, who motivated him, what good intentions he was to ignore the words of radio professionals, what souls he suffered, with foolish broadcasting permission and a policy of giving the broadcasting language, to completely destroy the already fragile radio sector in Latvia. I do not want to say that I do not have a complete interest in this. I must admit that I also have little interest in the motivation of Dainis Mjartāns. Perhaps he thought that radio and advertising professionals would keep quiet about how decisions were made about their industry. Perhaps he was convinced that he was a good owner and defender of national interests. Like Diamond, he likely thought: “Inflate me where it sounds! You don't sound like me.” But at the moment we are deciding on an issue that has nothing to do with the motivation of Dain Mjartan, nor does it have anything to do with the freedom of the media, the risks of the self-censorship of journalists, the various concepts of the rule of law. Dear colleagues, In information war conditions, the radio industry in Latvia needs a competent manager. Competent! In charge of the working group of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mrs. Viņķele, who disappeared... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis has come to the depot. A.Loskutova and L. Cigan.) Oh, my... on the public...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U33	Don't talk to the grass, Mr. Neighbours! Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U34	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... Thank you. Come on! You're gonna stop me again, okay? ( From the drug depot. I. Viņķele: “I have to learn from my head!” ) Don't bother people to work, Mrs. Chiganese, yes! So at the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, I have seen a cynical approach to what industry professionals have to say both from NEPLP and from Dainis Mjartāns. Problems are challengingly laid under the carpet, correspondence with industry professionals is carried out formally and devastatingly, and most importantly! - non-professional decisions are taken. Here's the last proof! The Constitutional Court has adopted a case on the transitional provisions of the law which were created completely incompetently, the result of which is that, in addition to chaos in the sector, from 1 January 2016, the use of the Latgalian language in electronic media is prohibited. Dear colleagues from Latgale! ( From the medicine, “Awake! ” ) I will address each of you personally. Dear Members: Sylvia Symph, Jani Trupovnieki, Jani Knaz, Rihard Eigim... she is not today, but he is from Latgale, Andrejs Elksniņi (from the drug depot. A. Elksniņš: “I’m here!” )... You are from Latgale, Ivan Ribakov, Jani Tutin, Vladimir Nikonov, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Inese Laizāne, Dzintar Zaķi from Latgale (from the hall: “Oh!” ), Aldi Adamovich, Janina Kursīte, Juris Viļis! Please listen to the legal opinion prepared by the law firm (I will now quote): “Also, Latgale Radio, which is the only radio programme in which 35 per cent of the radio programme is broadcast in Latvian, will be forced to broadcast only in the state language – in Latvian!” Next thing. I do not know how you colleagues, but I can inform you that there is a "black market" in Latvia for the allocation of frequencies. Frequency costs from 300 to 500 thousand euros. The frequencies all belong to the State of Latvia, and they are Latvian state assets. Mr. Mjartan is very well informed about this thing that you can buy a frequency and make your radio up if you have enough money. As an example, you could be mentioned... It was Radio 101 and was licensed as Women’s Radio. This will now be done by addressing women's audience. At present, it is a business radio that has nothing to do with women, even dictators are not women. It's such a little thing, but is Mr. Mjartan responsible for it? Or “900 seconds”... What will you tell your constituents in Latgale? What will we say to the public like the Saeima? If this is not proof of the incompetentness of Dain Myartan, then I don't know what it is. I call on you to vote in favour of the dismissal of an incompetent Council member. The industry needs changes that Dainis Mjartan is unable to implement. ( Interface from the drug: “Time! ” ) Please vote in favour...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U35	Mr. Neighbours, the nine seconds you have asked are over.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U36	Please vote in favour of Mr Mjartan's dismissal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U37	I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U38	You finally use a hammer... I'm happy.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U39	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the release of Daiņa Mjartan from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 29, for - 14. No decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the release of Ivara Sweden from office as a member of the National Council for Electronic Media. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U40	The Commission examined the draft decision ‘On the removal of Ivara Sweden from office as a member of the National Electronic Media Council’ and did not support it unanimously. So I call on the Saeima to vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U41	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the dismissal of Ivara Ziedra from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 5, for - 53, for - 4. No decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda, Draft Law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U42	Hello, dear colleagues! See amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions. In the second final reading, we have received three proposals. The proposal is a proposal from the responsible commission - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission - which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U44	Proposal 2 is a proposal from the Legal Office. Also supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U46	Proposal No 3 is also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U48	We have therefore examined all three proposals. Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final, reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been adopted at final reading. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U50	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law No.135/Lp12 - Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law. Draft law was drawn up in the light of the establishment of the Office on Internal Security. No proposals have been submitted. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U51	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been adopted at third reading. The next item is the draft law on retirement pensions for staff involved in emergency medical care, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U52	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Members of the Saeima Bureau! Dear colleagues, honourable Members. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, when preparing the draft law for the third reading, received 18 proposals in total. 1. - The proposal by R. Uzulnieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Partly supported by option 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U54	2. - the proposal of Health Minister Guntis Belevičs. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U56	3. - the proposal of Health Minister Guntis Belevičs. Partly supported by Amendments 4 and 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U58	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U60	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U61	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U62	6. - The proposal by R. Uzulnieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Partly supported by option 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U63	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U64	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U66	8 / 8 - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U67	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U68	Proposal No 9. The commission responsible shall be established. The Commission meeting was supported by a change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U70	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U72	11. - the proposal of Health Minister Guntis Belevičs. The Commission meeting is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U73	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U74	12. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U76	13. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U78	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U80	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U82	16. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The Commission meeting was supported by a change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U83	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U84	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U86	18. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U88	Dear colleagues, I invite you to support the draft law at the third, final reading, at the same time expressing my gratitude to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Welfare, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and consultants of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U89	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on the retirement pensions of staff involved in the provision of emergency medical care service! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law in third, final, reading is supported. So the law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U90	Colleagues! We will complement the Latvian Penalty Enforcement Code with a new article – “Send of information to the victim”. This is why we are doing so in order to establish the arrangements whereby the administration of the detention authority sends information to the victim about the sentenced person, who is being released or will be released from the detention authority or who has escaped. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U91	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U92	September 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U93	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 2 September this year. The next item is the draft law amending the electricity market law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U94	Dear colleagues, In the Commission, we have examined and prepared the draft law "Amendments to the Electricity Market Law". No proposals have been received for this. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U95	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading is therefore supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U96	Deadline for submission of proposals - July 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U97	The proposals are therefore to be submitted by 15 July this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Municipalities, second reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U98	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission has examined the proposals for the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law "On Local Government"". I invite you, too, to focus on this. 1. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U100	2. - Member Maris Kučinski's proposal. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U101	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U102	4. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U103	Thus, the proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U104	3. - support. Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U105	And the fourth?
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U106	4. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U108	5. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U110	6. - Member Kučinska's proposal. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U111	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U112	7. - thus the proposal of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U114	And 8. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U116	I call for the draft law to be supported at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U118	Deadline for submission of proposals - September 1, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U119	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 1 September of this year. On the agenda draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U120	Dear President, honourable Members. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees’, document No 255/Lp12. Six proposals have been submitted from the Legal Office. Proposal 1: Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U122	Proposal No 2 - Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U124	Proposal No 3 - Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U126	Proposal No 4 - Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U128	Proposal No 5 - Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U130	Proposal No 6 - also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U132	Please support in general...
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U133	... second reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U134	Please submit your proposals for third reading by 2 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U135	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 2 September this year. Colleagues, we have come to the agenda section Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust. And it would be a proposal to announce a break at the Saeima sitting by 13:30, as Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma may attend this time to discuss the expression of trust to the candidate for the Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. Do Members agree with this? Members agree... Don't agree! ( From the medicines ’ intermediate: “Accompanied! ” ; “Do not agree!” ) Members ask for a vote. So let us vote in favour of the proposal to declare the parliamentary session interrupted by 13:30 - until Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma can come to talk about the expression of trust to the candidate for the Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 44, for - 24, for - 3. Consequently, a decision was made to announce the adjournment by 13: 30 a.m. Colleagues! Before we go on a break, we will welcome the anniversary: the 55th anniversary was celebrated by Mr Ivan Ribakov. We sincerely welcome him. (Applause) Colleagues! It is necessary to register the presence of Members before we leave. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U136	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Andris Bērziņš, Gundars Dauge, Rihards Eigims, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Andrejs Klementyevs, Atis Lejiņš, Aleksejs Loskutovs... Yes, Roman Mežeckis... OK, Vladimir Nikonov, Arvīds Platoper, Arthur Rubiks, Edwin Schnore, Zenta Tretjaka... Yes. Jānis Upenieks, Mihail Zemlinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U137	Thank you. So the break is till 13:30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U138	Dear colleagues, I call for seats to be held in the Saeima sitting room so that we can continue the Saeima sitting. On the agenda draft decision on the expression of trust to Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmans. Name to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U139	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members of the Saeima! First of all, I congratulate the President of State, the former Minister of Defence, Raimonds Vējone, and wish him to become a nation-loved president. Dear Members, I propose 12th Saeima Member Raimonds Bergmani as a candidate for your assessment and support as Minister of Defence. Raimonds Bergmanis is a member of the 12th Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Permanent Representative of the Latvian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Raimonds Bergmans has two higher education institutions, he has received a Master's degree in engineering specialist at Riga Technical University and a Master's degree in sports pedagogy at the Latvian Academy of Sport Education. Raimonds Bergmanis' trust in the state of Latvia is characterized by the recognition received, the state award “Cross of Recognition”, the commemoration mark of the participants of the 1991 Baricades, as well as military awards. Dear Members, Taking into account the experience and understanding of the defence system of Latvia as a NATO member of the Saeima Raimonds Bergmanis, I invite you to support my nomination as Minister of Defence of the Republic of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U140	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision "On Expression of Trust to the Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 5, for - 7. So we congratulate Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmans! We wish to hold a very important position as Minister of Defence in the best conscience and to strengthen national defence capabilities. (Applause) Depp. L.Čigāne and Prime Minister L. Straujuma teach flowers to R.Bergmanis.) Thank you, colleagues. The agenda for the extraordinary session of the Saeima has therefore been examined. We have to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U141	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Hosams Abu Meri, Andris Bērziņš, Gundars Dauge, Rihards Eigims, Andrejs Elksniņš, Andrejs Klementyevs, Atis Lejiņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Arvīds Platopers, Arturs Rubiks, Edvins Šnore, Jānis Upenieks and Ivars Zariņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2015-07-08-PT12-313-U142	Thank you. I therefore declare closed the extraordinary session of the Saeima.
