ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4302	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to do the 29th. Meeting of the National Council of XXI. Opening the legislative period and welcoming all of you. I announce that the official protocols of 26 and 27. Meeting of 17 March 1990 ==References== Meeting of 18 March 1990 In May 2000, it was legally suspended and remained without opposition for 24 hours and is therefore considered approved. The Third President of the National Council, Dr. Fassleven, as well as Eder, Nürnberger, Parnigoni, Schieder, Ing. Gerhard Bauer, Young, Amon, Platter and Mag. Lunacek. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4339	The Federal Chancellery issued the following communication on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: Ms. Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldnerby Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. I would ask you to take note of this. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4369	Now, at 10.03 a.m., we arrive at the current hour on the subject: "Development instead of setting up the secondary lanes" On the basis of the current hour, Mrs Lichtenberger has spoken. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4399	Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of "nextways" of today's current hour is not a secondary issue for us, but a very central topic. For years the secondary railways in Austria have been systematically starved. For years, politics in Austria has been working against the secondary railways: Road maps are thinned, new cars are not purchased, the route is not modernized – and then, and this is not a coincidence, it is said that it is ghosts' journey through the landscape, and that one should and can stop these ghosts, just for financial reasons. This hunger of the secondary railways – and this is a central question for me – has a massive impact on the region and on mobility in the region. Now the time has come when it is important to know – and we are now at a turning point in this question – whether this policy will continue to operate, whether the starved secondary trains will now be hit by death, or whether there will be a forward-looking concept, a future concept, a modern railway concept for the C network for the regions, which, of course, has its impact on the overall network. Mr. Minister, you're not responsible for this! Mr Minister, it was not you who, in the past, systematically made or watched these mistakes when they were made. But you, Mr Minister, are now facing the decision whether you want to become an active transport minister, a transport minister who actively intervenes in the events, which shows that he has something left for the secondary railways, for the regions, or a transport minister who continues to dance after the pipe of Draxler, like your predecessor. Or you decide to continue to implement thinning programs, perhaps to get some track, to get it with your "death help", but without believing in the future of these tracks. I have now received a letter from Mr Draxler on the question of secondary trains. In this letter, Mr Draxler says that there would be no "cold blow" in the sideways, but – quite the contrary! – a "reforestation project" is planned. In this context, it can only be said that Mr Draxler of modern forestry clearly does not understand anything at all. That would not be so bad, that is not his topic, but he obviously understands much less of a modern railway policy, as it runs Switzerland, for example. Minister! There is a problem with Mr Draxler: You must be aware, Minister, that Mr Draxler will continue to run the policy against the secondary railways if you do not stop him if you do not brake him! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is now about taking political responsibility and explaining who is buying who is buying in transport policy, who is defining policy for a region. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who pays! Not who buys!]] Reasonable public transport with good secondary railways could become the backbone of good regional policy. Minister! We looked at the Mariazeller Bahn as one of many examples yesterday and, on this basis, we were able to understand the entire history of the secondary trains in all their formations. In this railway there would be great opportunities for the future, especially because all communities would work and work together and actively not only on the maintenance, but also on the further development of this railway. The mayors of this region have formulated a resolution that is probably yours too. They have clear ideas about how the Mariazeller Bahn can continue. They have developed clear concepts of attraction, which are not to call for death aid for the Mariazell Railway, but rather to contain the precise and clear ideas about how this train should continue: as a tourist railway for the part towards Mariazell and as a shuttle railway where people have to travel towards St. Pölten. There is an active group that takes care of the marketing of the places to the attractions along the railway line. And this is also the opportunity – and this applies not only to these, but also to very many sideways – to become active and to open up new areas that can become quite interesting in economic terms. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! Therefore, instead of continuing to achieve half-seamed compromises, such as the ecopoints regime, you are required to pursue and implement an active new transport policy for the region. Minister! They have gone out in the budget debate as the great friend of the construction industry. You have found yourself a great friend of the construction industry that you are a great friend of the economy. Get out now, too, as a great friend of the secondary railways and as an operator of an active regional policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you are a friend of environmentally sound, active mobility in the region, you cannot tolerate Mr. Draxler's comments on further cuts, further recruitment programmes, further detours in the Austrian secondary railways. You'll meet commuters who have to work every day, you'll meet seniors who have to go to the nearest city, to the next center to get to the doctor, and you'll meet students who have no other way of using them than public transport. These students, these seniors, these commuters drive on the sidecars in Uraldwaggons – an Ural material that would never tolerate, for example, car traffic. Just imagine that a regional bus operator would still be operating buses from 1911. In the train it is tolerated, on the street it would be a thing of impossibility! If the railways are to become a good concept for the entire Bundesbahn, then it is not enough to keep them only, but then it is necessary to develop something new together with the regional population, including citizens' participation, also with the question of users. That's where you're called, Minister! There are economic opportunities in a courageous investment programme, an investment programme that is needed and developed with people in the region. Minister! You have the choice of either going into the history of ÖBB as an active minister of transport and also into the history of regional development or of continuing to be misused as a prellbock of Mr Draxler, who follows it without developing his own ideas and looks at a breakfast director, how the region is gradually thinned out and how mobility opportunities in the region disappear step by step, so that there is no more effective way for people to move on without cars. In order to minimize damage – and this is very important to me – Mr Draxler's position and his policy should be his policy in particular! – to be questioned, and to be called into question on a massive basis. A new programme needs a new procedure in the area of railway policy, and there is a need to get you out of the steps of your predecessor, Mr Minister,... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4460	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4475	... make a clear commitment to the secondary railways, which is also a clear commitment to regional policy and to a new ÖBB leadership. Play You're no longer Mr. Draxler's Prellbock! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4506	On the subject of the current hour, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke. The speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4527	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a warm thank you for the topic of this current hour. I think that it must be absolutely at the centre of social policy, as we are dealing with those regions in which the infrastructure is not available to the extent that it is in the urban area. I am – I say it again – an absolute follower of this subject. Before I go into the real issue, allow me to say the following: I strongly reject the claim that the negotiations on compliance with the transit agreement on ecopoints are a "half-seven" issue! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'm at it right now, hundreds of thousands of trips – I'm emphasizing: Hundreds of thousands of trips! – to allow less by Tyrol to negotiate, and that, Mrs Doctor, is not a "half-seven" solution, but an improvement of a contractual agreement for which I am not responsible. Please note! I am trying to reach a good compromise. Commissioner de Palacio is our assistant, our supporter, and I hope that we will be on 26 May. The results will be achieved in June 2000. They ask to bring an immediate action. It takes four, five years for the action to be taken, and in the meantime hundreds of thousands of trucks donate more through Tyrol. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's what they're doing now!]] That can't be in your best interests. Let us not be half silky, but let us stick to the whole truth, and this is very positive in our efforts! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the topic of "next lanes": I do not know until now when I should have been the Prellbock of Mr Draxler's Director-General. I have once made myself very clear about this, and that is, I believe, a position with which everyone in the middle of life who stands in the economic life that stands in political life can also deal with it. Director-General Draxler has the responsibility to drive the Austrian Federal Railways economically. He tries to meet this responsibility in his own way. In addition, there is another responsibility, namely political responsibility. With regard to the public services, there is a statement by me from February of this year, as far as I remember correctly, in which I have clarified the following: One is the opinion of Mr Draxler, the other – especially with regard to the secondary tracks – is my opinion. She's another one, but the upper one is the lower one. And in this case, the policy of the Upper and the Director-General of the ÖBB is the subject! – This made this clear once again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You can read this in the media. I made that statement. Why do I say that? – Because I believe that this positioning is absolutely all right and it cannot be a matter of being an economic director, an economic captain, where he shoots something in his business from his own pocket – from the public business bag, if you want. This does not fall within its sphere of responsibility. Despite everything – I then come to the Mariazeller Bahn to speak, which I already know much longer than you –: There are tracks where we are – you hear! – shoot 480 s per trip and passenger, in which we shoot per passenger and year 105 000 s. And just to detemotionalize this topic: If, in this case, a Director-General does not ask whether or not to continue the operation in this form, then he is, I think, not in place! – I would like to say that to clarify and position the Director-General. Now on my way of doing this and on our policy that we are pursuing in this area. There is a clear mandate, on my part, to the Austrian Federal Railways not to submit an application for recruitment in the Ministry of Transport until any possibility has been used on the ground, to ensure a further operation of the secondary railways. In particular, I have looked forward to the Mariazeller Bahn project, because Mariazell, the Mariazeller Land, is a special situation due to the difficult topographical situation: On the one hand, the Seeberg represents an obstacle to reaching the centres, on the other side lies Lower Austria, i.e. another federal country. So there is a need for action. We have commissioned a special project to explore not only the Mariazeller Bahn, but two other projects – how to ensure the operation. We will certainly also use the financial resources available to us to a degree that is not acceptable in an economic sense, so that this is clear. We will use financial resources beyond economic viability, which is all the case in the case of public service. I mentioned in the discussion that there are tracks in which we shoot 105 000 s per passenger per year. I can only say: In the case of an overall package of debt or tied loans of more than 200 billion Schilling in the Austrian Federal Railways in the field of SCHIG, the change in a promille height credit rate certainly has a much greater impact than in doing reasonable projects in the secondary railways. I say that strongly and consciously, and I stand by it. I also mean that we don't have to look at some schilling with the severity, dryness and pragmatism of an economic manager or economic captain. So my first opinion on this is now summarised: There will not be a "cold blow", but I cannot quite understand the term "reforestation" used by Mr Draxler, who I myself would like to question. I had to smile like you when I heard that. Of course, it will not be, but we will ensure that these tracks are refreshed. In particular, it is 100% guaranteed that public transport will continue to be offered on every railway. In this regard, I give my word. I hope that the House will unanimously follow this idea. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4585	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his opinion. We are now entering the debate. The speaking times for all speakers are now 5 minutes. Mr Edler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4612	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank the Greens for addressing today the question of the railways, especially those of the secondary railways. I would first like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for the position you are taking and which I welcome as a railway driver. But we will measure you by your actions; that is what I say immediately. Ladies and gentlemen! We must be aware of the following: Less railways and rail stops mean more environmental pollution, so lower quality of life. While in Austria over the past 25 years, we have repeatedly discussed this here, we have invested a total of 471 billion Schilling in the road sector, it was only 121 billion Schilling in the rail sector. The ÖVP – especially Transport Spokesman Kukacka – repeatedly criticises that in 1999 we finally reached a certain parity between rail and road. The railways lead not only in Austria, but also in Europe as a whole and elsewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Except in Switzerland!]] In other areas, however, we are now ready to reactivate off-roads with an effort of millions, yes billions. We have a chance in Austria to modernise the tracks instead of setting them up. Well, ladies and gentlemen, to the intended attitudes. Mr Federal Minister, you have the opportunity to issue transport policy instructions under the ÖBB Act. The Director-General of the ÖBB – you have done this quite properly here – has to conduct the law after the ÖBB business business. As we know, Mr Draxler is only interested in profit-making routes. It cannot be in our political interest to guide only profit-making routes, but we also have to pay attention to what you said, Mr Federal Minister, and I would like to stress that people in the regions have a right to mobility and basic care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am a member of the Union of Railways and therefore also of one of the so-called privileged exempts who criticise the government for public costs, as Mrs Vice-Chancellor said on Sunday in St. Pölten. Mr President of the Council! I know that our trade union officials are paid by the trade unions, enjoy a high degree of trust there and are always elected again and again. Ladies and gentlemen! The railways have proved to whom they stand in the Chamber of Workers' Elections with a high degree of participation: Over 90 percent of the FSGs, i.e. the SPÖ Group, have voted. But that bothers you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For the Greens too, this is now a success experience. I have to say in their honor that the greens have always been committed to the maintenance and expansion of the railways. It is truly gratifying what has happened in recent years on some routes. In this context, I should like to mention the example of wine district, where, together with the local population and the mayors there, it was no matter what political direction they belong to, we have created really good models. The same happened in Burgenland. I believe that this should be continued. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to mention my colleagues, Mrs Schwemlein, who have been fighting for decades for the maintenance of the Pinzgau track, as well as those officials from all political camps who are working for the maintenance of the Mariazeller Bahn, of trains in the forest district, on the Lunzer route and of secondary railways in other areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just to show you the order of magnitude: If we stopped the off-roads, about 100,000 trucks would drive more on the road. The follow-up costs resulting from accident costs would amount to 1 billion schilling. I gather, ladies and gentlemen: The recruitment of secondary roads means less quality of life, less basic care and less mobility. The recruitment of secondary railways also means less quality in tourism. By-cars have regional ecological and economic importance. This is a national challenge for the legislator. The SPÖ fights for the greatest possible maintenance of the railways and also for the extension of the secondary railways. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4669	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. The speaking time is the same. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4690	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Lichtenberger, this Federal Government will not put the "death blow" on the sideways, nor will it "forgone", for this Federal Government will also implement and implement the major necessary reforms in this area, as in all other areas, in the interest of good Austrian secondary railways and in the interest of good and successful Austrian Federal Railways. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] No question, the secondary trains have important transport policy functions, we confess to that, but without the rolling of economic reason, no sideways can be operated, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Lichtenberger! If you completely hide the economic indicators here or don't lose a word about it, I have to tell you straight and clear: It is therefore not possible to make responsible transport policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). In the case of the Social Democrats, it will now be modern, permanent child-moving. And Mr Draxler, the poor Director-General, has to be put to the head by you on every occasion. He's almost your "child": Mr Draxler brought the climate back to him, because he was his "Ziehsohn" in economic policy. Confess to him, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now a few words on the economic indicators as well: 28 percent of the total tracks of the Federal Railways are on the C-Racken-Netz, namely the secondary railways, but only 1 percent of the net tonne-kilometres in freight transport and only 1 percent of the kilometres in passenger transport are carried out on these secondary trains. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Why?]] So these are very modest sizes. Of course, you also have to say what the undercover looks like. Undercovering the infrastructure alone is 1.2 billion schilling a year, and in passenger transport losses in the retail sector of around 500 million schilling are made on the passenger trains. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: And the cover of the motorways?]] In view of these figures, one must also understand the position of the Director-General of the ÖBB. Due to the high annual cost burden caused by unprofitable secondary trains, which sometimes have 10 percent and even less cost coverage, it is about looking for alternatives for his company. It is not a question of abolishing secondary lanes, it is a question of developing sensible alternatives, and that is precisely the duty of the Director-General of the ÖBB and also our duty as politicians if we want to deal with taxpayers responsibly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler: You should talk to the head of state Pröll!]] In the long run, it cannot be assumed to the taxpayer that he is giving massive financial resources to the federal railways, which are used to the fact that then often heavy-tongue spirit trains pass through the landscape, with high energy costs. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: When you starve at them first!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I do not at all understand you, because the ecological balance of these sideways – you can be sure of that! – is negative due to the high energy consumption and environmental costs that arise. You should recognise this and include it in your account, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So before some sideways are set, some points need to be clarified. For us, the cost coverage level of each route concerned must be indicated individually. In addition to financial policy, consideration must be given to transport policy before possible closure of a route. In other words, we need to clarify the question: What transport services are provided by the respective secondary train, and are there reasonable alternatives to this? [[Abg. Edler: You should talk to Pröll!]] Above all, and especially important is the following point – and there is now also the possibility: In the case of a planned closure of a route, a public invitation to tender must be made in order to enable an award to be made in the interest of other private companies,...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4802	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4817	... because the state monopolies are also over on the track. Also in Austria, any private operator can also make offers on the ÖBB rails in the future, and this is a new opportunity also for the Austrian secondary railways. [[Abg. Edler: Talk to Pröll!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4856	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4877	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, this is a question of money, and I cannot understand, Mrs Lichtenberger, that you are so loose with a sentence about the question of spirit traits. There are, of course. If you go through rail traffic with open eyes, you can't deny that. You must not operate so easily with a calculation size, but you must look at the image very carefully at the side lanes. There are three different categories in the C network – which has already been suggested today. First category: There are railways which have a very low utilization, very low utilization, no freight or no freight traffic and have no morning and evening peaks. These are the poorest. On this point, of course, the first thing that always depends on the Damocles threshold of closure depends on each Minister, regardless of which political groups he comes from, and regardless of the time at which he takes up his function. What Mr Draxler told us about the media a few weeks ago did not happen for the first time, these examples have already existed three times, at each ministerial change. The second category in the secondary railways is those which have relatively low loads on freight transport and which have a morning and evening tip with student traffic and commuting traffic. Of course, one will have to discuss this, because there is a national economic, a public interest, and therefore one should see that this will be maintained as best as possible. Furthermore, there is a third category in the secondary railways, which are those that have a relatively good load, have a morning and evening tip and have a tourism traffic. With regard to this type of secondary railways, I believe there should be no discussion about their decommissioning, and as far as I have correctly understood the Minister, it will also be his intention to optimize the whole system – but to optimize it in the sense of the Austrians, to optimize it in the sense of the counterparts and also to optimize it in the sense of taxpayers. That seems to me to be important! But 4 per cent cost coverage, 4 per cent fixed cost coverage, as is the case with individual sideways, is of course a size with which one can hardly argue. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll bet you: We parliamentarians also have to slow down to take account of the bill and also to understand national accounts here in this House and not to say: The money's us. [[Abg. Edler: Why not by the street?]] There must be no more such things, we cannot afford to do that. In principle, Mr Edler, we have to ask many questions financially over and over again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now to you, Mr. Edler. You go out as a railway trader and say everything must be possible, the status quo should remain unchanged. [[Abg. Edler: No!]] Well, that's it. You've been through it all the time. [[Abg. Edler: What did I say?]] However, what has arisen in the off-roads of cost malaise is partly due to the inflexible attitude of the ÖBB trade unions. [[Call to the liberals: Genuine!]] I would just like to give an example, Mr Edler. Keywords: Remotely controlled locomotives. – Does that seem familiar to you? Who's been on the other side for years and days? – Your SPÖ union has always prevented this. [[Abg. Huber: The population!]] One can, Mrs Colleague, very well arrange and carry out the locomotives through a person. That goes, it's technically possible, there's evidence for that. But with you in the company, there is still the domestic mentality where you say: There's no question about that, that's where the railway is going! – in the truest sense of the word. That is your mentality, and with this mentality, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, we will not be able to save the secondary lanes. This calls for constructive forces to achieve a meaningful social and economic compromise, and I am counting the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. He'll do that, and you'll still experience your miracles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4973	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e4994	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Firlinger has just given himself a very significant answer by saying: We will not save the sideways – he says, his group – there are constructive forces in demand! - Yes! I can only expressly stress this: There are really constructive forces in demand! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In view of this debate, I am unfortunately prompted to make a very personal comment. I'm the daughter of a farmer and a host. Let us take the following: Our inn is totally bad, and each piece is subsidized with 5 000 s per year. What do I do in this case as a responsible host? – I reduce the times in which I offer, I make the schnitzel even worse, so all the things that are attractive to a schnitzelser I do not do partout, and then I wonder that no people come to my inn anymore. – So that’s really the concept of a ghost runway, and I really can’t understand that! It is completely abstrus and has nothing to do with the business industry! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The setting of the sideways is really the culmination of a "scarp brewery" – under quotation marks – that is really looking for the same! Take a train from Vienna to Fürstenfeld! Sometimes I have the impression that none of you ever ride the train. Which one of you is really driving the train? – The daily border connections have been deleted. Although advertising campaigns are being carried out, there is an image advertising for the ÖBB, for example a mobile phone cannot be used. We heard – it was told us – that, for example, there is only one toilet for 800 people on the Vienna – Paris route. Furthermore, the "kilometre bank" and the "green bank" have been deleted. That was really a blow to the face for train customers. The setting of the sideways is now only the bulging on the "i", and we reject it to the most massive. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can only say: Concept Geisterbahn. Every time you talk about business, I have big problems with it. The municipality of Vienna alone has half a billion to reach the ÖV. Why does she do that? Another brief account, because someone has previously claimed that the eco-balancing between road and rail is somehow very clear. That was Mr. Kukacka, I think. Sorry You have this banal remark, but I do not think you can expect it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You've never been concerned about it!]] I'm calling you a few numbers: In Austria, 31 percent of total energy consumption is consumed by traffic. 81 percent of the energy is consumed by road transport, and only 4 percent by rail infrastructure as a whole. I repeat: 4 percent! This is a very clear account, and I believe that it is impossible to shake. Federal Minister! One question to you: Have you ever broken your mind about what it means to make a climate protection concept in Austria? Have you considered that this also means providing a public infrastructure in the transport sector so that you are not somehow "the last" if you move through Austria with public transport? – I have the impression that you are never on the train. CO2 emissions in Austria have increased by a quarter since 1990. I emphasize: around a quarter! This is a very dramatic development. Without this development in the transport sector, we would have our climate change objectives in view, at a distance that we could achieve. [[Abg. Neudeck: But you have to stay at home!]] Since 1998 we have reached a high level in this area at all, and there is no trend change. In the transport sector in particular, there is no trend change. I therefore ask you, Minister of State: Have you considered what you are doing in this area of transport to reduce CO2 emissions? – Setting up the secondary lanes is not a suitable measure for this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: That's why I don't put them in!]] You're saying you're not setting them up. You also celebrated yesterday in the Styrian "Kronen Zeitung" as a savior of the secondary railways. I'm asking you now: What's going to be You do: Are you going to call a stock guarantee for the sideways? Will you design attraction programs – "Schnitzelkonzep", I say now, in order to make it really easy – for the sideways? Will you share regional knowledge with the municipalities? The people in the communities really know very well how to make their train more attractive as you can integrate it into tourism concepts! – And will be You all the people in Austria, all the commuters, all the young people who don't have cars, all the old people who don't have cars and don't have any relatives who can take them anywhere, will you give all those who can still move on? Will you do that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You said, "Ober's staggering boys." In other words, politics assumes responsibility for this dilemma, for this "concept of ghosts" and for the decision that will be taken on attractively in the future. I expect a half-reasoned Federal Minister to think first of all about the impact his policy has on environmental protection, on climate protection objectives and so on – especially if you need so much action...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5092	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5108	... in the energy sector – and that, secondly, he has made available to all the people who need public transport and have a right to mobility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5135	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5156	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As part of this current hour, I have two objectives of Austrian transport policy: on the one hand, the shift of transport to environmentally friendly modes of transport and, on the other, the development of previously poorly accessible regions. – Unfortunately, you are not concerned with the development, but with the closure, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. An efficient transport policy is intended to serve people, regions and the economy, but at the same time to protect the environment and to ensure our habitat in a sustainable way. On the topic "Save the Environment": Mr Kukacka, you have previously claimed that, unlike the road in terms of energy use, sideways would be considered negative. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Some!]] This is not important, because in the transport of goods, Mr Colleague, the ratio of energy use and CO2 emissions to the ship is one, to rail three to four, and to road to ten values. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You like the words "efficient transport policy" in your mouth. – What can we see when we look at the transport policy of the blue-black government? Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They burdened drivers with 2 000 s more a year, and also in public transport the citizens have massive cuts to make. Hits, shorts, driving on one side, towing the road pricing on the other side: That's your policy! Today, however, the main focus is on the secondary railways. Now I bring a positive example from my constituency, ladies and gentlemen. Badner Bahn – Mödling district; I live in Mödling district; it runs from Baden to Vienna-Opera – should have been stopped about 20 years ago. The argument was then: not profitable, too expensive, too little frequency et cetera. But what about it now? – A few days ago, there was a solemn opening of a low-floor motorcar: Seven and a half minutes to the opera and so on. These aspects of the importance of regional railways – these are possible and must be possible – should also be included in this discussion, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, with the threatened stop-ups, the thinning of public transport is pre-programmed. The situation of the commuters – this has already been addressed several times – is, of course, dramatically worsened. It is now planned to shut down 1 600 kilometers of secondary railway. I am very excited about what the projects of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs will look like. In Lower Austria alone, 17 regional railways are threatened by the recruitment, thus endangering the jobs of more than 200 people. Hopefully, it is not your party's "phenomenal" social programme, which is being carried here, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The link between the accessibility of the regions concerned and the economic power and the economic dynamics of these regions is as important as the consideration of the other aspects I have mentioned. The forest area, for example, is threatened by the attitudes of the secondary railways, and all the measures that have led to selective tourism and public transport projects being no longer accessible are not in our sense. [[Abg. Neudeck: Didn't the Lord make it all?]] The Mariazeller Bahn and the Krimmler Bahn have already been addressed in this context. We are here now and today, and that is why it is important what I am saying here and today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We too, ladies and gentlemen, do not want "spirits", but we want attractive tracks. It should not be forgotten that 60 percent of freight transport – not only for regional railways but in general – depends on connecting stations and that a total of 237 000 net tons are transported on these routes. Existing jobs will be safeguarded in a sustainable way and an incentive to create new jobs will be created. In our opinion, the constantly discussed conversion of some secondary trains to bus operations brings a number of disadvantages and much less benefits. Some are listed: longer driving time, loss of travel time in the event of congestion or other unfavourable road conditions, necessarily higher travel prices, departure of passengers who, for tourist reasons, prefer to travel by train rather than by bus to these regions. The proceeds will decrease, the people will drive by car, and it may only be left of student traffic. This cannot be the objective of an ecologically oriented transport policy, ladies and gentlemen. In view of the importance of the transport policy of the secondary railways, we Socialist MEPs will therefore be bringing forward today a motion for a resolution you already know on this subject, which has the demand to secure the existence of the secondary railways in the future. Federal Minister! I ask you to: Place your transport policy in the right lanes, and give the regional railways a chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5228	The next speaker is Mr Fink. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5250	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Mrs Glawischnig, the Aspangbahn is not a side railway. She's a "normal" track, if I may call it that way, but not a side track. Mr Edler, I am also taking the Austrian Federal Railways according to their deeds, and if I do so, namely to judge the actions committed by the ÖBB since 1945, then I can only tell you one thing: that the ÖBB has been a socialist domain since that time and that the Socialists have for 50 years set up the Federal Minister responsible for it – I emphasize: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] For 50 years, with a single exception, I would have said 55 years – with a single exception, from 1966 to 1970. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At that time the train went best, but unfortunately it was only a short time. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Schrzchen!]] If I keep track of you, Mr Edler, you have to admit that this is a very negative balance sheet. You say that too. They also said it before the election of the workers' chamber. More than 90 percent of the Socialists and the FSG have chosen. You're saying that, too. The railway socialists, of course, claim: Well, nothing is being modernised now, because over a hundred days now we have a new federal government! – But for the last 50 years, they have forgotten. Nothing has been done in the direction of modernisation at the railway over the past 50 years! The modernisation of the railway has been prevented, and in the end the railways will also be stopped thanks to this of your policies. They say it is because countless billions of schilling have been invested in the road network. – It is true that there is also an investment there, but that the railway would not have received any financial resources, it is not true! Since 1970 the railway has received a federal grant of around 700 billion schilling. That's almost half of Austria's debt today! You know that very well, and you are losing credibility and seriosity, ladies and gentlemen. In this way, they lose credibility in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler: What does the road cost?]] I say to you as a regional politician, I am also for the secondary tracks, but one must nevertheless be clarified – I say this strongly; it has already been said today –: We can't really send ghosts through the area, and we can always put in other financial resources. It won't be possible! The train is required, the train itself has to do something to make it more attractive. This is the only meaningful thing that can and must be done! I'll add something. I could imagine how to get the sideways very easily. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] The average age of retirement, Mr Grabner, is 53 years with the railways. And I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, No human can understand that! No one understands that the railway worker or the railway driver who sits in the office can retire at 53 years of age. But then Mr. Vergestnich comes here and says: We'll mobilize the road again! We railers go on the road! We do not like the increase in this retirement age by one and a half years, from 53 years to 54,5 years. My dear railways, Mr President and Mr ÖBBler! Increase the retirement age of the railways to a level like all other people have, I mean, that the railways have to go into retirement, how the nurses have to go into retirement, namely at the age of 56.5 years, or how the street worker has to retire or how the black deck worker has to go into retirement, who makes the asphalt ceiling in Vienna at night, or how the shift worker has to go into retirement or how the general army officer or the police officer has to retire. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Edler: They're all going earlier!]] If that were done, then we could get 2 billion schilling, and with that we could get the sideways. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler: ÖVP breach!]] Do it! Increases the retirement age among the railways and does not mobilize the road!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5401	The next speaker is Mr Deputies' Head. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5422	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! If one has followed today's debate, then my previous speaker, Mr Fink, must be given the right. It could be believed that the Austrian Federal Railways have received 90 percent social-democratic votes at the election of personnel or at the election of the workers' chamber, and after 50 years they finally want to be freed from the control of the government to lead the Federal Railways into the light heights of a transport concept that the Social Democrats have been representing for the Austrian federal railways and the secondary railways for 50 years. Ladies and gentlemen! The exact opposite is the case: Since 1945, the Social Democrats have been firmly in control of the Federal Railways. Mr Edler, you know that very well. I have always been an enthusiastic train driver, and I have always been committed to the interests of the railways, but one, Mr Edler, I also say to you very clearly: The lack of flexibility of staff representatives within the Austrian Federal Railways has contributed significantly in the last 20 years to the reduction of the attractiveness of the railways. Ladies and gentlemen! There, where the railways have been stopped, no citizen has given way to the railway because it was actually no longer used, the economy has not served any more, and the circumstances of the existing transport capacity in which companies use it in today's share economy have led to permanent postal payments to the companies. The economy has therefore changed. You, Mr Edler, also know very well that the railway has made itself competitive in the field of the secondary railways with the bus services, with the passenger services, with the transport of trucks and so on – to the detriment of the secondary railways and not to the strengthening of the infrastructure of the secondary railways. Mr President, I should like to thank The Mariazeller Railway is also such an example. Years ago all railway stations were renovated in the required form, and then they were locked up. Today, only one railway driver is driving in the motorcar. It may even drive 50 people in this motor vehicle, but the staff member is not even able to collect the charges for rail transport because he has to drive and must comply with the timetable and therefore cannot cash. The fact that the statistics look different than the actual utilization, and that they also induce nationally false changes, is clear and obvious to everyone who has used this side-way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The fact that, in all these years, Mr Edler, a short-sighted strategy in the field of job security was not prepared to redesign railway crossings in the appropriate form and to train staff employed there in good time and to use them in other areas is a failure that the railway has to pay expensively today. [[Abg. Edeller: 12 000 railers less!]] Mr Edler! This is of no use to you, because you have clearly failed in the infrastructure design of the railways over the last 30 years. They have forgotten before the war on labour that the railway is no longer self-evident for the railways, but has become a service company in the context of Europe's entire transport industry. Unfortunately, there you are on the trail, not to say, landed at the prellbock of the storage track. I hope, Mr Edler, that you and the other staff representatives in the Federal Railways will finally start to rethink and that you will be aware that the Federal Railways are a service area and are there for the regions, for the economy and for the travellers, and not vice versa, that the travellers must be gracious and the economy must be gracious and that the Bundesbahners are only willing to finish the train when they have desire and love and do not strike. The Bundesbahners should then finish and start when the economy needs it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And this, Mr Edler, is what unfortunately falls to the head of the Austrian Federal Railway and its individual staff. When I consider that today not only the secondary railways are inefficiently used, but also the main lines are also constantly losing attraction, such as the Tauernbahn, such as the Südbahn, I have to say: This is not the fault of the current Federal Government, but the policy you have pursued for fifty years: no modern fleet, no corresponding flexibility in the transport of goods, no awareness of services. Mr Edler! If you don't think about it, then the private will overtake the Austrian federal railways where the trains are out of service – and that's right. I believe that you are now required to think quickly about the Federal Railways and in fact become a service company in the interests of the regions, in the interests of the economy and in the interest of customers, and not just to remain a federal railway in the interests of the employees – and nothing else. Mr Edler! Because today the poor old women who will no longer have the train were mentioned several times, I can tell you the following: They can't drive your trains on the sideways for a long time because they don't get into the wagons because the distances at the stages are too high...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5469	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5484	... Because the mother doesn't come up there with the stroller, and the kind workman who helped you before has already been rationalized by Mr Draxler, your child. Think about it, gentlemen, within the framework of the ÖBB, then it will go up the sideways again!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5526	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5568	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schmid, we should be concerned if all of us here are one-way to the sideways. In any case, I am concerned because, in reality, no political debate has taken place on what has happened in the last 20 years. Whenever, as it is now said, Kahlschlag concepts have emerged, it was so that anyway, everyone was always for the sideways and yet everything has come as it has come, because we already have these thinning problems longer. It may be unnecessary to address it once again – because some will never understand it, or perhaps it is unnecessary to do so – that the external costs of transport must of course be taken into account in relation to the comparisons we need to make in terms of investment, costs and the like. This debate is in itself overturned. That is why I would like to address some aspects of what we have experienced in recent years in relation to the railways, and I would like to give some Styrian examples, since I am probably one of the few side-car users among the Members and a user of that aspang railway which has been mentioned here and which is not supposed to be a side-track. I can only say: If this is to be a main train, good night public transport in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would then really be the symbol that we only have more to do with a ghost car policy, a spirit railway policy. There's no way that this should be a central train, Mr. Cot. It is true that during training for jogging you may be able to overtake the train in a special curve due to the speed problems it has there. Since, for example, the ÖBB and the road management cannot agree that certain railway crossings are provided with signal systems, the train can only drive around the curve by 30 kilometres, because it is not seen. That's the way it is on the entire route. There have been investment concepts for ten or fifteen years, but nothing is done – although there is a security problem there. In Söchau, for example, citizens' initiatives and anglings have repeatedly pointed out this problem, until then, in fact, – Minister Schmid, you will remember the tragic accident – a school bus has collided with a driving car and several students were dead and some others were seriously injured. That, of course, all possible politicians of the state and the Federal Government have come up again and have folded their hands has already been striking – and not only at Lassing. Conscious and familiar that should have been much earlier. And that's really the problem we have with the sideways: that you don't get through to really invest. Then we could make the same comparisons. But you refuse to make the necessary investments, and every five years we have a side-track debate because, as you say correctly, the Directors-General of the ÖBB will do the cost comparisons of the current costs – that is also quite right – and find that the user frequency does not really look good. However, the user frequency cannot be good, because that is systematically and with purpose, I claim, ruined. That's the problem with the sideways. Because you have defended the ÖBB, I would like to meet at this point that there is, of course, also some homemade problem of the railway administration. Yesterday we were convinced that in Mariazell at the final railway station there is a snow-space problem in winter, namely the way that three different units are responsible for the snow-room: those who have to turn down the snow from the roof, those who have to return to the platform, and of course there is also their own snow-space competence for the rails. The fact that this can't work when from the roof onto the platform and then on the rails and return, and this is still to do with another, is obvious. Mr. Edler! I would therefore think that there are real problems, but in principle this is about the investment commitment. I bring a final example from the Styria: Spielfeld–Radkersburg. Setting this section of the route really is limited to immense inventiveness. We are facing EU enlargement, at least towards Slovenia, which should be known. There will be a main transversal, i.e. the Kiew-Triest connection, within 15 kilometres. This was only necessary without building any bridges, making a network connection, and the whole concept would be more useful.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5617	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5632	My final sentence is relatively simple: Mr Minister, if the whole Ministry of Infrastructure is called, then you should also think a little about the future and not simply cut down lawn mower like you have in your budget proposal. We should think instead of mowing and expanding lawns instead of setting up. The few steiric examples that are common to me...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5658	Even so "simple" is not the final sentence, Mr. Deputies. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] I declare the current hour on the topic "Neighborings" for ended. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5692	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I may refer to those in the meeting room according to § 23 para. References 4 to the Rules of Procedure shall be made in writing. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5965	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 867/J by Dr Gusenbauer and the political group to the Federal Minister for Public Performance and Sport, Mrs Riess-Passer, on the massive burden on small and medium-sized persons from 1st century onwards. ==References====External links== In June 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] Under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Please, Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e5995	Mr President. In accordance with Article 52 of our Federal Constitution, the National Council and the Federal Council are empowered to review the management of the Federal Government, to consult its members on all matters of enforcement and to request all relevant information. The urgent question by Mr Gusenbauer is addressed to the Federal Minister for Public Performance and Sport, whose competence in the execution is public performance and sport. However, the questions put to the Council of Ministers are all about questions which do not concern their scope according to the voting behaviour of the Federal Minister. It is not possible, in accordance with our federal constitution, to qualify the voting behaviour as a question of execution, nor can we ask a Minister for Public Performance and Sport for VAT. Mr President. I remember the following: There has been a dark day in my parliamentary existence, that was the urgent request my club made on 14 November. In January 1997 the Bank of Austria made a statement on the acquisition by the Bank of Federal Banks of the CA shares. At the time you personally, Mr President, when I brought the question to you, you did not allow about ten of the 14 requests because they were sent to Minister Farnleitner and Klubobmann Kostelka pointed out that he was not the competent Federal Minister. This has also been expressed in the National Council's stenographic protocol, because Mrs Petrovic said on business treatment at the time – I quote – that: "Mr. President! It has been distributed here a urgent request in the hall, from which the item of the negotiation is not really clearly recognizable for us. Several handwritten, partially illegible improvements and breakthroughs are made..." That is exactly what I had to put on this urgent question at your request, Mr President, so that it could be approved. I would therefore suggest, Mr President, that we hold a presidential conference under your presidency during the negotiations on the questions of rental rights, which is now beginning, which will discuss this question, because the follow-up of the case will have to be followed if a member of the government can be asked for his vote in the Council of Ministers, because then every minister is obliged to make a request and answer for any question he could ever agree to in the Council of Ministers. Unless, Mr President, you decide immediately not to allow this question. In this case, the President-in-Office is not necessary. Otherwise, I would ask for this presidency to be convened in good time without interruption of the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6052	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Kostelka, spoke on another speech on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6073	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The precedent, which Mr Khol mentioned in this connection, was mainly due to the fact that, in the last second following the introduction of this urgent request, the text of the motion for a resolution was deleted and it was not clear what the content of this request was. In addition, it is quite interesting to argue that the voting behaviour of government members in the government is not part of the task of a minister and a member of the government. I think that this is a totally unmistakable argument, and I would therefore suggest that, as in other cases, we treat this question in the same way as the Rules of Procedure provides, and call it at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6101	Thank you. I'll look at the facts. – Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6122	Mr President. High house! There is a real example here of how to lead the instrument of urgent inquiry ad absurdum. They ask not only the question of the voting behaviour of a non-competent minister, but They ask the question of voting behaviour to something that does not happen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The tax stop isn't taking place?]] They ask questions about VAT voting, should they be increased by 10 and 20 percent respectively, questions on voting behaviour regarding 13 and 14. Monthly if it should be taxed by more than 6 per cent. There's no such thing as that! Fees increase veto – that can't be because there's no increase in fees. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] They ask a veto question to suspend the 2000 tax reform and the family package. There's no such suspension at all! They ask a question concerning reductions in pensions which are not at all available. They ask questions about voting behaviour on matters that do not exist at all, which are completely out of the air, which are wrong in content and which only give evidence that you are completely unthinkable – not only in terms of business regulations, but also in terms of content.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6175	So it's not that simple, because of course we've already had urgent requests for projects or future decisions or non-decisions. But I will consider the matter within 30 minutes, and will study the text of the question again and then decide whether it will be approved, whether it will not be approved, or whether we will take a presidential meeting. I therefore propose that we start with this reservation with the completion of the agenda. – The matter is not yet decided. I'm going to the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6202	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: A day block time of 10 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 195 minutes, liberals and ÖVP per 145 minutes as well as green 115 minutes. The National Council is to be found on this issue. On the other hand, are there any objections? – That's not the case. Then it's so decided. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6232	I would also like to sum up the debate on points 1 to 5, 7 to 9, 10 to 12, 13 to 16, 19 to 23, 25 and 26 and 27 to 32 of the agenda. Is there any objection? – That is not the case either. That's what it's supposed to be. 1. Point Report by the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 129/A by Mr Mag. Walter Tancsits, Mag. Reinhard Firlingerond comrades concerning a federal law that amends the housing benefit law, the rental law, the housing property law 1975, the benchmark law and the heating cost bill and repeals the house-care law (Wohnrechtsnovelle 2000 – WRN 2000) (122 of the supplements) 2. Point Report and request of the Building Committee on the draft federal law amending the Working Time Act and the Federal Law on the Nightwork of Women (123 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Legal Affairs Committee on Amendment 65/A by Dr. Johannes Jarolimund Genossen concerning a Federal Law amending the Law on Rental Law (140 of Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Legal Affairs Committee on Amendment No 66/A by Mr Doris Buresund Comrades on a Federal Law amending the Law on Rental Law and on Amendment 90/A of Deputies Doris Buresund Comrades concerning a Federal Law amending the Law on Rental Law (141 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendments 70/A and 91/A by Mr Doris Buresund Comrades, both concerning a Federal Act amending the Consumer Protection Act (124 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6333	We now come to points 1 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no need for oral reporting. That is why we are going into the discussions at once. First speaker is Mrs Bures. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6360	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this burden government would, of course, also like to avoid the debate on the urgent question today, because the credibility of this government, this blue-black coalition, is at stake when a vice chancellor on the one hand announces a "stop from taxing", on the other hand, but on the other hand, a further load package is presented with this novel on the right of residence. [[Abg. Auer: Immense opposition!]] This time, to a great extent, the tenants and the flat-seekers are affected by your loads. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] While you advertise that you will reduce rents, you place your promise that the rents will be cheaper, we know – and the public hearing experts have also confirmed – that the current novel is exactly the opposite. The first load wave for tenants is 1. ==References== That's where you decided to increase the electricity tax. This costs households 3 billion schilling. This is what the tenants pay! As you have decided that cooperative tenants will be asked to pay more for cash in the future, because they now have to pay for the registration in the base book as well. And with 1. June, with the first wave of stress, you have also decided that in the future Häuselbauer will have to pay a registration fee for a construction savings loan – so those people who will make sure that housing is created. What are you doing today? – Present today You give us the second load wave for tenants, it brings only anti-anti-personnel measures. No expert in hearing – not even the experts of the blue-black coalition – could give us a point where living should be cheaper. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: By abolishing the Home-Supplier Act!]] You promised, but you're breaking this promise. The projects of this government are exclusively to the detriment of the tenants. All of these projects will lead to greater legal uncertainty for tenants and will be a clear deterioration in the protection of tenants. This proposal, of course, seamlessly puts itself in the loads which, in particular, affect weaker people and young families when living, particularly young people and young families, which are massively affected by low and medium-sized incomes. People with high incomes, on the other hand, have no problem in caring for themselves in the housing market. You do not do this for the purpose of fiscal consolidation, as in other areas, but you do it in the interest of your clients. With this measure they serve the large entrepreneurs and the possessors and thus distribute gifts to those who do not need it, namely the possessors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] An indication of this is the following statement I would like to quote: "The real estate investors are called the new residence plans of the blue-black coalition for good..." – And do you know why they call these measures for good? – This is also stated here, namely: "... because the rental and management of interest-rate houses will become more lucrative in the future." – Who will be asked to check out the cash register if it becomes more lucrative for real estate investors? – And the real estate investors, who thank themselves for serving these clients at the expense of the tenants, write "that the renting of interest houses and business venues will again be discarded in the future". That's what you're talking about with this novel. And who has to pay for it? – For this purpose, small business operators are asked to pay the cash register, and for real estate investors to earn more, the tenants have to pay. These are the measures you are planning with this novel, and I think it is important to point out that you are serving these clients, namely homeowners and real estate creditors, at the expense of the tenants. And this is business making with the basic right to live. We Social Democrats have always stood up for safe and quiet living in Austria. Despite difficult negotiations with our then coalition partner, the ÖVP, we have repeatedly implemented a very high denunciation protection and a very high housing security. We have always said – and not as prepotent and obscene as this government does – that an apartment is to be compared with a sausage cream, with bread or milk – that an apartment is a basic need that a roof over the head is an existential necessity for people and therefore cannot be linked to business-making for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me give you an example. In the future, they will eliminate safe living in this country in a very concrete way. By this regulation of temporary rental contracts, you will ensure that in the future no longer be able to obtain an unlimited rental contract, i.e. not a rental contract in which they can decide for themselves when to change the apartment, when they want to move elsewhere, but a rental contract that has an expiry date that the landlord will not be able to decide on, which will have an expiry date which will require tenants to go to the landlord in the future, that the rental contract will be extended, because it is not so easy to search for a new apartment if you have only a low or medium income. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's what you're telling!]] [[Abg. Großruck: How does it look with the rental contracts of the municipality of Vienna?]] Looking for a new apartment and overscheduleing is associated with high costs, for example with extremely high broker commissions. In Austria, we have the highest broker commissions in Europe that tenants have to pay, although we have been trying to enforce for years to reduce broker commissions at European level. It is not to be seen that tenants have three month rents to pay to broker commissions. Throughout Europe this is half lower and below. We have therefore tabled an application which has the requirement that these broker commissions should be lowered at European level, i.e. halved from the current costs of housing seekers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are the financial consequences of the temporary rental contracts, apart from the fact that you have to keep looking for housing. However, temporary leases also lead to the need to reorganise one's social environment. I have a daughter and I know it's not that easy to have to look for another kindergarten or school for a child in kindergarten age. This is necessary, however, because one is pushed out of the apartment. However, this innovation will lead to the fact that there will be only more temporary rental contracts, but no longer the indefinite lease agreement that is useful to tenants. Also, the rights that the tenants have, if you have to beg every three years, that the rental contract is extended, is much less available. One will not have one's main rental interest checked, one's operating costs will not be checked if one depends on the landlord's goodwill. But you can do that with this novel. This is a novel that is directed against the tenants. One of my main points, in my opinion, is the additions. It's always hidden. It is always said that the temporary rental contract also has discounts. In this context, I can tell you the following: You know – at least those who deal with this rental topic – that there is an additional jungle on the rents, that up to 100 percent surcharges come to the target value. I can give you examples of key rental interest reviews. There is a surcharge for a telephone connection, a surcharge for a washing machine connection, a surcharge for the room height, a surcharge for a small house, a surcharge for a basement with floor. These are the supplements that are required, and the surcharges for temporary rental contracts will not be borne because you are not prepared to limit this supplement to the indicative rent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Social Democrats have the better concept of living policy. This is also for the vote today. We call for a reform of this victory jungle. We agree that there is a limit to the reference rent, which is the market price for an apartment. This enables us to reach in the interest of the tenants that there are transparent and comprehensible rents. That's what we're doing! This is a residential concept that is in the interest of the tenants. Another point – because today the attempt to hand over signatures of over 60,000 tenants to Minister Bartenstein; of course, he did not accept them – is the Home Care Act. They are not willing to reform, but they destroy an entire professional group – and that is very careless as you have done in many other areas. In the past, they have always allowed homeowners to pay a basket fee because even if cheaper cleaning companies were active, the tenants had to pay home delivery costs. What to do You now? – Create Now They leave a professional group, but for tenants, nothing will be cheaper, and homeowners and house managers will continue to get their basket money by setting up sub-cleaning companies. These are your measures that destroy a professional group, which does not create alternatives that do not create positive solutions, with which neither an alternative to the 80 percent women's jobs affected by them, nor an alternative to the tenants are created. Completely planless action You continue according to the motto: Destroy, destroy and cross! Instead of destroying an entire professional group, we advocate a revision of the Home Manager's Act, we advocate a modern, modern law. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution. As regards assessment, hearing and committee, it has also been shown that this was all a pseudo action. You went through what you wanted to go through. You simply and simply erased from the table all the concerns that have been expressed by the experts, they didn't care about you. Now I come to the third stress step for tenants. You will announce this permanently. They intend to intervene in existing old lease contracts. They are planning to undermine the protection of termination by making it easier to assert their own needs, and above all you are planning to introduce tax advantages for homeowners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How terrible!]] Yes, it is terrible – because this draft is inexcusable because this draft is unsocial, because it only brings deteriorations and devastations and you have promised the opposite. But let me, because it is important to me to briefly outline the counter-model: Your model, which is exclusively in the interests of the brokers and homeowners, we face a model that clearly shows that we are on the side of the tenants, that we are concerned with legal certainty when living, that we are concerned with living in a quiet home, and that we will protect and maintain the needs and interests of the tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6497	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6518	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The housing market is a dynamic market, so there are no final, final steps, but always only adjustments and the legislative possibilities to create the fairest possible conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this sense, this step is an important step by the government parties with the new housing law in 2000 towards cost reduction and cost reduction, qualitative improvements and property facilitation. I would like to quote this in detail. In the area of the rental law, we create by means of the possibility of the continuous time-limit, but also the continuous discount of 25 percent of the rental price on the market, namely the commuting to a buyer and demand market of the respective rents. That is to say, away from the regulations we have just experienced in the big cities and to which you want to return with your indicative upper limits, as we have experienced them – with absolutes, with all the plan economic elements, with the allocation, the politically motivated allocation of municipal housing, as was usual in Vienna for decades! We'll get rid of these conditions. We thereby reduce rent and give the opportunity to free more living space. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have a broadcast by Mrs Bures, and she has said so. In this you contradict yourself: More revenue for homeowners, and in the future there will only be temporary rental contracts with expiry date. – Ladies and gentlemen! If you deduct 25 percent, there can be no more revenue. Mrs Bures, please do so, otherwise you will never fix your party finances! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: How much do you owe?]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The possibility of opening the time limit for commercial rental is a necessary step. I refer to the opinion of the Economic Research Institute in the review process. This measure is expected to lead to a recovery of commercial roads in the city’s cores. Second area: Home-career law. Ladies and gentlemen! There are 3.2 million employees in our country. Almost none of the professional groups in Austria – up to 40,000 home providers – are based on an old special labour law dating back to 1922. We allow the transfer to a modern labour law as a worker or employee, just as it applies to all other professional groups. It is totally absurd to tell those concerned that their profession would be abolished. They have the possibility – and we create the prerequisite for doing so – to enter into collective agreements within the legal framework as responsible social partners. I tell you that the relevant trade union should finally start negotiating instead of collecting 64 000 signatures and agreeing with the people that their profession is being abolished. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll call you on the 2nd. July, after the entry into force of this law, to take a look at your living environment. You'll see: Your caretaker will still be there. Then you'll know: The SPÖ once again lied. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] [[Abg. Reitsamer: (in the direction of the president-in-chief Dr. Fischer) "Legend"!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Third area: Law on non-profit-making housing. We create the possibility...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6607	Mr Tancsits! In the event that an expression has fallen which we cannot accept, I will proceed accordingly – I will look at the Stenographical Protocol and check it – unless you take this expression back now.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6622	I take this expression back with regret. I don't replace him, nor do I leave it to the imagination of the House. Third area: Law on non-profit-making housing. We are able to make qualitative improvements through contracting, i.e. through financing an improvement measure, through energy saving, without financial burden on tenants and the housing cooperatives. That's modern improvement, that's cost reduction, and that's ecological progress! Ladies and gentlemen! Our social policy manuscript – and I know that this is in the field of property option – is particularly rejected by the SPÖ. Those who pay their own funds to a greater extent than 50 euros per square meter will in the future have the opportunity to purchase this apartment after ten years. Those who enter the old estate with a new contract will also have the opportunity to acquire property if they pay more on basic costs. We thus meet the wish of many cooperative tenants – which has already shown the small opening in the WGG in 1993 – to acquire independence and property, but on the other hand also to create clarity and transparency in the rents. Now it is in many areas that a seemingly low rent is collected, but at the same time a high own resources contribution has to be made. Young tenants or young families in particular are then forced to borrow an expensive loan for the provision of these own resources – possibly in the case of a bank connected with the cooperative building company. We'll do away with this displeasure. A rental must be clear and transparent as such. [[Demonstratative condolences of Deputies Mag. Firlinger and Neudeck.]] Where to spend own resources, I must also be able to acquire property! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The government groups have taken an important step in the area of housing law in 2000: Cost reduction and cost reduction in rents, the possibility of qualitative and environmental improvement and – last but not least – the possibility of increased ownership. In this sense, I ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6686	We are at a National Council meeting and do not allow any disturbances from the gallery! I ask those who have dropped the gallery! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: tenants' association! Well, we know where it belongs!]] Mrs Gabriela Moser is speaking. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Please take a seat on the gallery and not to stand!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6715	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the plenary and at the gallery! Unfortunately, we are almost used to the fact that this federal government has made the redistribution its principle motto: the redistribution from bottom to top. [[Abg. Fischl: I think you read the government program!]] Yes, we know your steps in budget recovery. We also know today – thank you! – Your so-called residential reform approaches. [[Abg. Haigermoser places the speaker a bundle of postcards thrown down from the gallery on the pult]] In doing so, you have presented these reform approaches as the first major measure of this blue-black government to be taken beyond any budget consolidation measures. The new housing law novelle 2000 was announced as the first step, as the first part of a large reform package for the benefit of the Austrians under the motto "inhabiting Billiger". The APA press release of the Federal Chancellor Schüssel and the Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer of 17 December 1868, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, in the Official Journal of the European Communities, But what did the newspapers say after the contents of these new laws became known? [[Abg. Neudeck puts another bundle of postcards thrown down by the gallery.]] . I would like to bring some of these headlines before you so that not my party political point of view is in the foreground, but so that here, as it were, public opinion is articulated and your claim to enforce reforms in terms of cheaper living is clearly exposed and declassified. It's in the "EconomiesBlatt", a newspaper that you certainly don't care about, from 18th. March 2000, a day after the "citizen" was announced to read: "Immobilienbereich warns of higher rents and declining construction performance", "Reform of rental law under severe fire". - That came from your side. Or: It's in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": "Wonderful... “Accommodation is not cheaper, but the market is restricted”’. - Please, that's in the real estate news! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Or: We can read the following in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of 3. May 2000: "Apartments more expensive." – The Federal Invention of Property Trustees brings this development back to certain facts that are not unknown to you. Or: ==References====External links== May 2000: "Experts: New residence law will not bring cheaper rents". – With this, this mutilation of cheaper living already burst like a soap bubble in the first few weeks. What is left is a massive promotion action that you want to somehow push on the people under the label "Dynamic Market" and into which you force the people into! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It would have been necessary – since the 1990s; I think Mr President Fischer is a good witness to this – to reorganise the right of residence in Austria in general, to make it more transparent, readable and transparent, to make interest and rent regulations even more clear to tenants. We have – read this in the literature – a jungle of interest and rent possibilities, depending on the state and type of funding, with the supplements and discounts also in the open field. Examples have already been mentioned for this purpose. Instead of trying to explore this jungle, create clear conditions, introduce clear, transparent regulations in this field of life, instead of choosing the essential reform approach that Mr Michalek has brought back to the stage in autumn, continue the path of Flickwerk. They continue to practice what the residential law expert Professor Call called very aptly "The right to live remains Fleckerlteppich". Please, this is what you need to write in the main book: With this first reform of the new government, you make the old flickwork only a little longer and further. What would be necessary to ensure that the distribution from bottom to top does not also take place in the rental area? What would it be necessary to take other ways? Mr Tancsits! I agree with you that the market has its right, but unfortunately, apartments are not wool jackets, not textiles that I get in a business in broad abundance, but apartments are basic infrastructure that I have to rely on in order to be able to live at all. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With this basic infrastructure, we still have a relatively stable situation in Austria. In addition, I say that compared to other EU countries, namely the highly liberalised one, which you want to liberalize in your sense with your so-called dynamic market philosophy. Your expert, whom you sent to the committee, may well have pointed out that the temporary leases led to a total price increase. Please, that's what an ÖVP expert says! I can read it again literally. He said: The increase in temporary leases leads to increases. This is because the so-called indicative value of which you want to calculate your nice 25 percent is a value that you can judge. The guide is a skim! Read also in the literature after: It's dead right. I quote Dr. Johannes Stabentheiner, his sign at the Ministry of Justice. He said: The reference value is not practised. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... after comfort!]] Do the practice test! Call the house and property owners' association, and say: I want to rent an apartment and I want to know what I can ask for, how high the guide value is and how the surcharges and discounts are to be made. What is the answer? – The answer is: Target, we don't know him! I can tell you what the real estate mirror recommends for good, bad or middle location. That's it! This reflects very clearly the housing and rental situation in Austria. The indicative value is a purely legal nomenclature, which is not applied in practice. In this respect, your 25 percent of racks are, so to speak, a bubble of soap and will not be effective. An element from this new residential law, so to speak, towards economic kindness – because you always represent yourself as the economic parties –: In particular, the smaller businesses, the smaller business people, will find themselves under this new new housing law novels worse conditions because they are heavily subject to time limits. You can conclude two, three or four-year contracts, but the re-renting, the continuation of these temporary rental contracts will be very likely to be based on how in three or four years the business status will be, as it were, and whether you can't turn the screw a little higher because the turnover fits. This will also become more or less a trap for the near-suppliers and for the smaller shops, into which they are forced into – and that of a party that repeatedly says that it is there for the smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs too! I say: You're there for real estate dealers, you're there for real estate owners, and you've certainly moved in the direction of those who have millions on the high edge or in the form of land and land, but not in the direction of those who need the money and who really need the money. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One more word on property, which is now easier to acquire, because the entry-level barrier is reduced to this ominous 50 euro per square meter: These 50 euros are cheap, but the return side is that monthly rents will rise. If there are no more large payments for basic acquisition or construction costs, the cooperative must obtain its money from another source. This other source means rent, the rent will just get higher! It is possible to calculate this; I have inquired and have been reckoned. In the worst case, rental costs increase by 85 percent, because the amount previously paid – perhaps 400 000 or 500 000 S – is transferred to the monthly rent. The basic question is: Do I want to pay more monthly, or is it not preferable for me to make a contribution once a month and thus be relieved in the future? – The majority of the population wants this second way! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The deposit, where does it come from? Are they coming from themselves?]] With these rental options, you will also create two categories of acquisition of property. On the normal track, the direct payment of properties, you have a VAT rate of 20 percent. On the new rail or in the case of the latte laid down on the new rail rental you have a VAT of 10 percent. In the future, who will be going to the residences in a regular way? Who will then choose the higher tax variant, so to speak? – Most will choose the rental variant. They again promote the acquisition of property at discount prices with taxpayers' money. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Property! Yeah, like, "fucking"!]] I have nothing against the fact that property in this state is created in the sense, but property has its cost. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Property – something quite "frightful"! Have we already learned in Communism: Property is something quite horrendous!]] I am also willing to put something on the table for this property, but I am not willing to put tax money on the table for it. That's the difference! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, there is a brief comment on the caregivers, from very knowledgeable mouths, from the mouths of the house and the property owners. In their opinion on your draft, the Association of Houseowners and Owners regrets that you will abolish this law. Yes, it's a fact: Homeowners also pay attention to home-careers, because home-careers are tangible around the clock and work in many areas more favourable than companies. A banal example of this is the change of a light bulb. That's usually what the housekeeper does. Please get an electric installer! You will see that, due to your measures, the operating costs will rise and that, due to your measures, the total cost of housing will be costed because no fixed area of activity, as the householder has done so far, is legally anchored, but will be released by you. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What about home delivery costs?]] New are also the fictitious operating costs you introduce. This is also a cost increase rate. You can now introduce additional operating costs to ensure that energy recovery measures are implemented. I guess I'm very much for this for a variety of reasons. Only: What are the improvements for now? What are the contributions to rehabilitation work for now? – These would have to be used in the first place or, if they are not exploited, to be repaid and not to require new forms of contributions for contracting models. This is again a way that we firmly reject. Finally, three judgments, which come from very manifest mouths: First: The notarial board has to bear in mind that the general introduction of three-year contracts significantly complicates the rental of dwellings or of dwellings in single and two-family houses in the short term and thus removes rental properties from the market. – This is your dynamic market policy! That's what the Notarial Chamber means. Or: The Institute for Civil Law, Trade and Securities Law makes it very clear that the proposal appears to be problematic to use a single discount of 25 percent. This increases transaction costs. – These are also experts. The overall consequences of these cost increases on the municipalities and the countries now best define a letter from the Office of the Vorarlberger State Government. This is a very economical state government and therefore a very well-founded source for me. It shall be formulated as follows: Higher rents – as can be derived from this law – also lead to higher housing benefits. And more or less the cat bites in the tail: They increase rents, while at the same time pushing the municipalities and the countries to increase the housing aid, which then again burdened the budget, whether the countries, or the municipalities, or the federal budget, on the financial compensation. That is the point, which is why we firmly reject this new housing law novel. For us, living is and remains a basic infrastructure right. With regard to cheap labour, too, I would have expected – I must tell you, Minister of Economic Affairs – another new residential law novel from your home and with your signature. In the Second Republic, cheap housing costs have always been the prerequisite for adequate wages to be paid in the economy as well; and these are communication vessels. You have caused the created shale.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6866	Before I give the next speaker the floor, I ask the four club chairmen at 12.10 a.m. for a brief meeting in the Presidiumalon, which is located at the end of the column hall. Mr Prinzhorn will hold the presidency; Mr Fassleven is apologised for today. The four club chairmen will be asked for a brief meeting at 12.10 a.m. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm The speaking time is set at 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e6891	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I believe that what we heard from colleague Bures and now from colleague Moser was, in my opinion, the old socialist brand in the 1960s, I would wrap it around. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A little older!]] – Maybe even older, my colleague, that can be quite a bit stupid. It is true that in the case of rental law, in the case of housing law quite clear and also plastically the ideological boundaries and ideological differences emerge. That is why I am actually glad that these have been worked out, because it has manifested what the Social Democrats and the Greens and what we, the bourgeois government parties, want. I should like to sum up once again for colleagues here in the House. The left half of the empire wants to regulate, wants plan economy, wants to cement and limit. We want a market economy – a market economy that is socially depleted. This is once a fundamental difference, and I also attach importance to the fact that this is outstretched. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Social Democrats and the Greens want a basket money, want anyone to have something else on the side that is still being managed by the side, which presupposes that there is one who allocates the basket money. This is also part of the planning economy. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who gets the basket money?]] We want clear conditions and a clear law, and we want the tenant to pay a fair price for rent and for ancillary services. This is also a very clear difference, ladies and gentlemen. We want the formation of property, which is clearly defined in the law. We want easy access to property. This is a general economic desire which is felt by most people in Austria, namely 80 percent of the population, and which is widely recognized. You want the opposite, namely the prevention of property, ladies and gentlemen, of the left half of the empire! Do you know what you want? – They want the care of the dchatum. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Mr Firlinger! Have you ever heard of Catholic social doctrine?]] You do not want there to be clear ownership relationships, but you want to convey a little the appearance of property as in the Soviet Union the Dascha. He was assigned to someone who was allowed to live in it, and when he was dutifully listed, he was allowed to continue living in it – according to the motto: a bit of property, but no real property. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Communism has nothing to do with it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are very clear ideological differences, which have also been found in the current draft. And I'm actually proud of that, ladies and gentlemen, because this step was overdue. A rejection of socialist housing policy and socialist support policy for artists and for a clientele, ladies and gentlemen, was extremely overdue. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you, Mrs Moser, are saying here that you do not really want to buy housing property with public money, then you are actually giving a very clear rejection to the entire funding system. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What you want is Communism, Mrs Colleague! There is only one homeowner, namely the Republic of Austria and a few frontal organizations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] But we want private property, ladies and gentlemen, and for that I recognize myself, and this is a high and holy good to me. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If today is always argued that there is this ominous indicative value, then I may ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Who put in the guide? Who forced this over the past few years? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Lower Austrian housing cooperative!]] Was that the liberals? – You owe that to yourself! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Model Rosenstingl!]] Please, Mrs. Colleague! I didn't know that You can get so deep in the drawer. All right, let's stick to the thing. Ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire! You owe it to yourself. You have systematically muttered the right of residence with socialist politics for over 30, 35 years, and we are repairing it now, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edler: Firlinger changed the party three times!]] That's fact! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] An important step was taken in the right direction with the 2000 residential law novel. But I have to say: We have not been able to do everything now, that is in 100 days of government activity, in 100 days of New Government simply not possible. But there will be a second step. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Stop it! It's unbearable!]] I am glad that there will be this second step, because in the meantime you will be caught up with reality, ladies and gentlemen. Then you'll see that the market very well honours much of what you're shattering today. You'll see. [[Abg. Edler: Wrong speech!]] I would also like to say one word, ladies and gentlemen, on the area of home-providers. Do you know what was polemized there, what was spread to propaganda, to fearmakers? – That is really not to be surpassed anymore. [[Abg. Edeller: Take it off!]] Shame! Shame that you spend such fearmakers on the back of the little people. Shame on it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's hard-wearing what's happening here: starting from the "buying" of the housekeeper, the public demonstration in the coffin, to the claim that this is a declaration of war. The choice of words speaks for itself, and the actions you have made speak for themselves. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I really hope that you will be taught a better one soon, and I am sure that the customers, the citizens, the people looking for housing, whether they are on rent or want to acquire property, will soon find very clear conditions. [[Abg. Edler: What about the "little" people?]] I am sure that the market and the population will honor it, and I am sure that all your fear-makers who spread here will be punished for lies and that reality will be another. Please talk about it in a year!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7108	Mr Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7129	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take the floor here to assure you that it is actually the objective of this new legal regulation to reshape the very difficult and difficult-to-read situation we find in rental law, in the sense of a transparency, in the sense of a read-out of this law and also in the sense that this law, when read by laymen, is given a self-explanatory character. This is undoubtedly an attempt to radically simplify, clarify and unify this jungle by means of the right of time-limitation right. There is now – I have to tell you this as a former practitioner – a type of contract that is truly self-evident, is understandable to everyone and is also to be welcomed by the law. This type of contract applies to all rental contracts and applies to all rental properties in the same way. However, there is a special scheme for entrepreneurs because there is no time limit for them. It is a bit more difficult for them to admit, because they have this special scheme, but this is due to the whole of the Austrian legal system: that entrepreneurs are less vulnerable and need to be more careful in their negotiations. The 25 percent reduction in time limits is also used to achieve this goal of transparency, harmonisation and clarification of the law. ==References== Since 1982, residential law novelties have reduced the standard stock – please, note that – and thus fulfils a legal requirement, which has been repeatedly addressed to the place of residence and is realized in an area that is particularly difficult to regulate, because it is, as admittedly, particularly unclear. The way from home care provider to home care is not a return in any direction or from a direction, but is an addition to the existing system because now house managers and homeowners can be more flexible in the interests of tenants. It is indeed the objective of the claims and the legal regulation to make operating costs clearly, more easily verifiable and affordable. I believe that Mrs. Moser's concern, which has been expressed in this direction in particular, can actually be opposed by the indication that exactly what she said in part and what is right, is being pursued and, hopefully, fulfilled with this legal regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7168	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7189	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: I'm all ears!]] Of course, it insists that what you said should be dealt with. But I do not want to use my speaking time, because I believe the cheerfulness that your speech has triggered at the gallery has in itself been significant and does not need any further opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I think it is also the question of how much you argue here, because you have presented us with a model experiment in Lower Austria. That's not a "deep load", but it's just a fact that pushes itself up if you want to use credibility for yourself here. They have shown in Lower Austria how "successful" one can be entrepreneurship active. I have to say on the other hand, Mr Firlinger, that I have heard from you other speeches with other content. I do not know if this is related to you changing party membership sometime, but I would have expected a certain continuity, Mr Firlinger! I can tell you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you say that there have been alms in this House that old speakers, communists and so on have spoken, then I may say to you that you have indirectly referred to Professors Würth, Call, Schauer as Communists and attacked many institutions who have used a very clear language against these novels in the opinion process, with which you should have been seriously dealing, so that you would have seen that many of what you are saying here are simply not true. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Old red!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is what we have, Mr. Colleague.]] That, I would have thought, would be a discussion that would actually lead to a quality improvement. If you say all these are communists, and do it so flat-rate, then that's your problem. I can only tell you in this context that there are already "old speakers" such as the new Lower Austrian state party of FPÖ, who has just recently put back into space that his honor is the fidelity. We all know that the problem is that Austria has a significant burden! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Unfortunately, I cannot put aside the suspicion of God in this context that you are constantly looking to the so-called sanctions to continue to exist, because at least last week, the Federal Chancellor again failed to do something to end them. In my opinion, this is an incredible act that can be justified by nothing. The offer that sanctions are cancelled after short-term monitoring, to reject, of course means nothing but an interest in having an enemy image built here, ladies and gentlemen, so that you can go through your social disbeliefs, one after the other. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: What does this have to do with the rental right?]] [[Abg. Fischl: On the matter!]] That must be said to the people once, ladies and gentlemen! That's how it is to be seen and not different. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: On the matter!]] Please note that the expert opinions that have been made in the course of the opinion procedure have clearly shown that this very complex matter of the rental law should be handled in a different way than you did! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You're picking up what you need right now, Mr. Colleague! That's the problem!]] There's some kind of Husch-Puff law novel here. Because this matter is so complex and because it is just one of the materials, which is often referred to as a parameter of legal power and art, dealing with materials, it needs particularly careful and careful processing. You have the whole teaching against yourself and you can't just say that we hide it, that's a great design. - It's gone. That's what you have to represent, and They have to note that the law will clearly lead to a rise in the number of temporary rental conditions and that the extremity of the individual tenants will also increase because they simply have to do with the fact that if they take advantage of their rights, their rights to check the rental interest, then simply the extension by the landlord will not take place. This is something that clearly leads to a massive deterioration in tenants' rights. You have to represent this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but also you from the FPÖ, as you have always presented very different objectives in the context of the public election campaign. That's what I can tell you. In the home caregivers, there will essentially be a considerable price increase – there are also studies – because no person actually believes that if you need a variety of craftsmen for every single activity instead of the home supplier, this will be cheaper. We have very reticent calculations of at least 23 % cost increase. You know these calculations, too, because they have been submitted in the framework of the opinion procedure. However, they have not responded to it. Apart from that, I also believe – there are also many insights in the area of home care – that the abolition of home caregivers will not bring any qualitative improvement to the tenants at all, but will do exactly the opposite. You should therefore not pretend to be making progress for the tenants, and should not play out the caretakers against the tenants, but you should say that we want to stand an example for ideological reasons, and therefore the caregivers must be abolished. And we play for the tenants that this will achieve enormous benefits for them. – But that is not the case, and that will not happen either. Now on the issue of property option: I have nothing against it, but the option of ownership must not, as it happens, go to the expense of those who pay rent. The tenants pay the so-called property option according to your model, and it really can't be. I'll finish. What you're selling us here as a rental law novel, as an improvement, is by no means such. It is non-social, it is non-fermented in content, and it shows the manuscript of the ÖVP, which we have restricted in the coalition of the last legislative periods in the interest of tenants. So the ÖVP has not done this anymore. It will already be shown in the months to come – years you don't even need to – that significant deterioration will be introduced here for the tenants. But someday the bill will be presented to you. I wish you all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7345	Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. Member of the European Parliament, see Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7369	Mr President. The previous speaker claimed that Mr Bundeskanzler had rejected an offer to terminate the sanctions in the counter-business to monitor. I would like to say the right thing about this: There was no such offer. Secondly, The Federal Chancellor and the entire Federal Government are doing all they can to ward off the unjust EU-unwarranted sanctions which the SPÖ regularly welcomes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7405	As the next speaker, Mrs Fekter spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7427	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate is marked by the fact that there are, on the one hand, the government parties who want to modernise, and on the other hand, the opposition parties who leave everything in their old age and do not want to change anything. We have also seen this novel from the perspective of the renewal of the right of residence. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A renewal process has already been launched in almost all European states in the area of housing law at the end of the 1980s. For example, Tony Blair in the UK – which is certainly more of a colleague close to the Social Democrats, the great example of social democracy – relies on ownership. I've got an APA release from 23. May. It says: British people continue to rely on private models in housing policy. Labour, for example, continues to have the popular – under quotation marks – "Right to buy", the right of the tenants of municipal apartments to buy the accommodation, initially with enormous discounts on the traffic value. Labour has, of course, reduced these discounts. – End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There it is modernized, only with us has the Social Democracy missed the modernisation move in vain. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Moser also strongly condemned the international efforts to deregulation and presented the European models rather than inappropriate. Mrs Moser! If only we would be as far as many of our neighbours! In these countries, the renewal of housing law has been markedly advanced. However, in all the reform efforts, the following was included: Firstly, away from forced management, secondly: the creation of sufficient housing, thirdly: Deregulation of the mandatory provisions, either in the case of price mechanisms or in the case of terminations; however, in many countries deregulation took place even in both countries, i.e. both in terms of the prices laid down by law and in terms of the protection of termination. We in Austria have only been very hesitant about this trend. In the residential property area, it was a little better. We have already largely deregulated in the 1990s, in the MRG area, that is, the domain that so massively defends social democracy, but we are still lagging behind and living by a philosophy of the last century. This is because in the 1990s the ideological contradictions between the then coalition partners were so great that we did not achieve any harmonisation of the right of residence by the ÖVP with the SPÖ. With this innovation, we are finally taking modern deregulation steps. The Minister mentioned it: We simply do away with several paragraphs, we create a whole, very regulatory law, namely the housekeeping law. Ladies and gentlemen! But we do not do the work that has to be done there – on the contrary: The number of jobs in this area will increase, there will be a wealth of new services in the home, in the home care area, but no longer under a very privileged labour law, which was created only for the caregivers after the war. So we no longer regulate in a paragraph with four paragraphs, how many keys who, when, how to get and who is entitled or not. It is not imperative to regulate the key distribution of apartments in a law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We simply believe that it is not justified that caregivers have their own right of protection, but nurses, for example, fall under general labour law. We believe that it is very well justified that the care work that continues to be done in the homes is also covered by general labour law. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say one more to the ceilings: It has been clearly explained in the Committee by the experts and also in a study commissioned by the AK that income and housing costs are related and that housing costs almost always amount to about 23 percent of income. In other words, low incomes are cheap, and higher incomes pay higher housing costs in more expensive homes. This study also comes to the surprising conclusion that in both segments, both in old construction and new construction, sufficient offers are also available for lower income levels. If we were to introduce new ceilings in the law now, this would automatically result in this ceiling being the general legal rent. This would push the lower rents up to this ceiling laid down in the law, and the rich would then be able to dampen this ceiling. This is the social-democratic housing concept. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, this is a mistake. This is unsocial, because there is always a distortion of the market with forced management and with prices laid down in the law, which ultimately leads to the result that the weak have more to pay and the more beneficiaries benefit through these limits in the law. That is why we are against this forced economy, and we are against these prices laid down in the law. We want to make the market work, because the past has shown that the market price is damping. At the time, too, we were faced with fears, concerns and black paintings in this House. – Nothing of it has occurred! The reference value system proves to be excellent. The open surcharges and discounts allow individual contract design, and thus we meet the needs of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7512	Mr Brosz spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7533	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Today, as has been the case so often in recent years, we are again talking about a novel of rental rights. There is surprisingly a single point in which I can give right to Mr Firlinger, who is not here now. That was the point when he said that the SPÖ had a corresponding degree of co-responsibility that this very rightly criticised lack of transparency, especially as regards the indicative values, had been incorporated into Austrian rental law. If Mrs Bures today, from my point of view, legitimately demands that there be a need for action to go back and create clear guidelines, then it must be mentioned at least at this point that this was a common policy that the SPÖ – certainly in a strong pressure situation that the ÖVP has always exercised in this area – carried out. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Only to improve tenants!]] – Yes, "very" to improve tenants, Mrs Fekter! I have looked at minutes of discussions in the 1980s and 1990s, and there are also some critical voices from SPÖ Members who have spoken: It was a compromise, more was not inside! – However, there has been a great deal of support here, which should not have been carried along. I would like to address a few of the things that Mr Firlinger and Mrs Fekter have done. You have here held a plea for the market economy in the area of rental law – linked to other things. – You do this continuously, you do it in the field of education, and you do it in the field of health. Perhaps it was not so wise to refer to the example of Britain. Ask your health experts once and see how these privatisation measures in the health system have worked in countries such as the UK! Take a look at how the education system has been affected by these privatisation measures! – If you say that was to help or to promote those who are in need or need it, then I must say, I do not know where you are observing the policy you are describing here, definitely not where it is actually playing. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But we're talking about rents, aren't we? We're talking about rents, or what are we talking about?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't know what my colleague Firlinger meant by "copper money" and "civils." I understood that he was actually referring to the caregivers, who, from his point of view, seem to be lovers and refer to a basket money. What has happened in recent years? – The possibility to have the houses cleaned through companies is already possible, in this context it was not necessary to abolish the legal basis for home providers. What you're doing here is abolishing the ceiling. There has so far been a fixed amount to which limit household services may be charged. Even though they were carried out by companies, it was no longer allowed to matter. You shredded it. This is no longer contained in the law, and that will mean that now is paid after attack. I can guarantee you one thing: We will observe very clearly and very clearly – just as the residential rights platform has said against the deadlines in the early 1990s – what an impact this will have! It will have drastic effects. The operating costs will not be cheaper! They will be more expensive, this is not at all a question, because market-economy payments are of course more expensive. Mrs Moser has already mentioned what it means when someone is called into the house for light bulb change when someone is called upon by a company for activities that last only five minutes. – This is exactly what you are introducing, and you have solved the existing limitation. This will have dramatic effects. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The timing point is particularly original, but it fits wonderfully to the ÖVP. It is a wonderful match to a party that has been claiming for months, not to have known from any government that has ever been in power in Austria before, which does not bear any responsibility for all that is going on the SPÖ. Your calculation is also interesting: The current legal regulation is the four-year deadline, 30 percent discount. – From now on, it's only more than 25 percent discount, so that's going to be cheaper. This will obviously be much cheaper, because if you deduct 25 percent instead of 30 percent, it will be cheaper after your calculation. – If these are the calculations of the Austrian People's Party with its present government partner, I would like to have explained where this approval takes place. [[Abg. Neudeck: How is 10 and 15 percent?]] What about 10 and 15 percent? – The fact will be that there will logically be many short-term leases. You're probably not going to disapprove of that either. There is no longer any incentive to enter into longer lease contracts if the discount for a short lease is as high as for a longer leased contract. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Neudeck! I do not wonder what policy comes out if you pursue the rental policy and the residence policy of the Freedom Party, because you are someone who is quite clearly not the interests of the tenants, but who represents the landlord and has found a wonderful partner in the ÖVP. In view of that, one does not need to wonder what comes out of it. [[Abg. Neudeck: We represent more tenants than homeowners!]] - Yes, your tenants! I don't know how your tenants feel about you. [[Abg. Neudeck: Very good!]] In any event, the fact is that all of these measures you are going to put in place here will not lead to any approval, even in the case of operating costs. - We'll look at that, we'll see it. You will not want to claim that the indicative values have led to an approval or that this has increased the transparency of rents in the past. Mrs Fekter says that it has proved to be a great success. – I mean, there are still ÖVP close-to-earner organisations – not too many, because the tenants already know that it is not very useful to go to ÖVP close organisations if you want to get advice on rental issues. But go to such organizations and ask there! There is no one in the tenant consultation who seriously claims that this indicative system works transparently and comprehensiblely. There's no such thing as that! I haven't seen anyone who knows about the rental law advice, who would have said: That was a wise solution, because we have saved ourselves procedures, so it has become easier. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But it worked in a high-priced segment.]] In the high-priced segment! But the high-priced segment, which I must honestly tell you, is not necessarily the point on which it is about. The point is, among other things, that: They reject social housing in many areas. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The number of homeless becomes higher every day!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The court proceedings have disappeared, which have been prophesied to us!]] Mr Firlinger has even spoken about the citizens, which is very interesting in the housing policy. The housing policy of the citizens has nothing to do with social housing. That's clear. It's about other interests. Apparently, you are not at all concerned that you also recognize that there is a need for cheap living space. They do not recognise this in the case of housing promotion. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Workers' Chamber Study: She says that there is enough living space! Read the Chamber of Workers study!]] What should a housing promotion, if not referred to, of how much people deserve in future life? You don't care! You do this type of housing promotion because you know exactly that your clients seem to be in an income situation that would happen. If you look at housing development, this can also be done according to socially sound criteria. Why is the promotion of housing not granted in such a way that a person who subsequently deserves more is also making more repayments? Why not? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Landesprojekt! Land case!]] - State case. Yes, you also have "no" heads of state or state – the name does not exist, but at least in the Styria there is someone that could be described this way – but you probably have as little to do with them as with the previous government. You could talk about it for a long time. Minister Böhmdorfer! They say that the time-limit will be easier. That's true, but so far, the law precisely regulated how many years the discount has been granted. This was still quite understandable for many. But the indicative values are not being changed at the moment. There is a whole lattice of things in the rental law that are so difficult to understand that the time-limit is only a fraction. So this area where, from my point of view – that's what you're going to look at – the costs are going to rise, to present as simplification, is a little simple! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This amendment will not promote transparency, it will not be discounted, and I can certainly join my colleague, Mr Firlinger: It is a profoundly bourgeois housing policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7728	As the next speaker, Mr Bartenstein has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7750	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Böhmdorfer! Mr Brosz, it is a bourgeois housing and rent policy that we want to shape, but at the same time it is a policy that we want to develop with this housing rights package, which will lead on the one hand to cheaper rents and on the other hand to more transparency, so that I have to oppose you clearly on these two last points – that is not surprising to you. As Minister of Labour, let me briefly address the subject of the Home Care Act and its expiry. I regret that I could not be present in my department this morning – I had to fulfil my obligations in the Council of Ministers; we have spoken here in Parliament – in order to accept 64 000 signatures, as I hear. But some of these signatures have now come to us in the House in other ways. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is certainly not true – Mrs Fekter has described this with the passus, the work is certainly not going out for us and also for the caregivers! – namely, the idea that a house without a householder is a house where no snow will be cleared, where no one will help anymore, where only the most necessary happens, where in the event of an emergency there is no one there. All of this is certainly not true. On the contrary: There will also be home-careers in the future, there should be them, there must be them. But what will no longer exist in the future, because there is no need to do so, and because it is also an injustice to many other, similarly valuable professional groups, is a self-appointing law, ladies and gentlemen! It doesn't need it any more at that time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee, there were also experts, and I would like to quote Mr Lugger, who, of course, has spoken about increased transparency and lower operating costs through the withdrawal and the expiry of the Home Care Act, and I would also like to stress from here: Who today is a housekeeper or until the 1st century. In July of this year, housekeepers will also continue to be covered by the Home Care Act. There's nothing about that. Who is the only person to have this activity after the 1st century. In July of this year, no longer falls under the provisions of this law, but of course has all the other protection provisions of our labour law at hand. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugger has explained to us in the Committee that from the current average cost of 5 S per square meter with a 20 to 60 percent reduction on then only 2 to 4 s per square meter. Maybe even more important is: He was expressly talking about a "job machine", so jobs are not lost, but jobs are created because some of what is happening in the grey sector today will be legalized and led into concrete employment conditions. – As far as the committee expert Lugger. Ladies and gentlemen! If there is a deficit in this area – clearly because the house-handler's law has covered some need – that is, collective contracts, I say as Minister of Labour, I and my home will be available at any time and with every strength to allow for the conclusion of collective contracts as quickly as possible. I have already mentioned in the Committee that the Austrian Homeowners' Association and, above all, the local authorities – think of the municipality of Vienna! – already have collective contractual capacity today. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to conclude by quoting another expert from the committee, Mr Amann. Mr Amann spoke of this law coming from housing management to the housing market. – I think that this is a positive development, especially because the demand for apartments is becoming more and more evident that we are now happily dealing with a demand market and no longer with a supplier market where the owners determine what is happening, but now the housing demanders are increasingly in control of the lever, can ultimately bring the market under control and thus also have the power to demand. In this environment, I expect that the principle objective, namely greater transparency and lower rents, will be very clearly achieved through this housing rights package. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jarolim! I look forward to this debate in two or three years' time when we will then discuss the results because I am convinced that this package of housing rights will then have demonstrated its importance and necessity by achieving its objectives. I thank you for giving the word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7813	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7834	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Bures obviously left the house because of this incident of the delivery of these signatures. I would have liked to ask them how these copies – which were delivered because they have both brand and stamp; they were delivered to the tenants' association, password "Hausbeorger", Reichsratsstraße 15 – came into the hands of those who threw them down here. On the other hand, if our Members had the mentality of the housekeepers, they would now have to apply for a risk allowance and a dirt allowance, because that is the policy that the trade union has been preparing for home caregivers in recent years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now on the subject. The current residential law novel is a first step in the right direction. It is, however, a first step, as has already been said, because decades of socialist and social democratic rental and housing law policy have done more damage to Austrian homes than two world wars. This policy has not yet been borne by the needs of the housing-seeking population. The main focus was on the protection of the residents and privileged. Mr Jarolim may be able to tell me why, after many years of parliamentary activity, representatives of the Social Democrats and the Greens are still living at the lowest rate in municipal homes, taking away the homes, according to Mr Petrovic, for these homeless people do not exist because of 100 days of black and blue government, but because of the lack of housing policy over the last decades. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In line with the wishes of the applicants, the time-limits were extended and the time-limit to the suffering of the landlords were harmonised at a high level. The possibility of time-limitation will also revive the market in commercial rents, and the repeal of the Home-Supplier Act will lead to a significant reduction in operating costs. If the social democrats continue to defend the privileges of home providers, then we need to highlight the background to this fact. In recent decades, home providers have been able to continuously expand their rights, create new costs and limit their obligations more and more. Negotiations with the relevant trade unions for a modern home delivery right were neither intended for the tenants nor for the landlords. The caregiver's duty to attend has long fallen, and the light bulb changing caregiver is in most homes a schmair and not a fact. In view of the low wages of home caregivers, the obligation to attend has been abolished, as has been said. By means of low pay: In 1995 tenants’ complaints have shown that in the protection of the municipality of Vienna house-careers earn up to 70 000 S. At the Rennbahnweg, a caregiver cleaned several steps with the help of two employees who, according to newspaper reports, had not even been reported to the health insurance company. The type of employment of employees was correct, said the town hall at that time. There is an oral work contract with these black workers, and the two workers themselves must ensure that the financial office and the health insurance fund come to their right, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! This caregiver, a service provider of two black workers, but had another interesting side job. He was the district leader of the SPÖ Vienna-Donaustadt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] – As far as the credibility of the home caretakers on the left side of the house is concerned. By repealing § 44 of the Law on Rental Law, it is now ensured that the rental interest is not disputed in the event of long-term upright leases. This step leads to greater legal certainty for landlords and tenants, saves lengthy ancestral research regarding the apartment for several centuries and is thus a way for landlords and tenants to increase legal certainty. In conclusion, I should like to say once again: This novel is a first step. The harmonisation of rental and housing rights is not therefore complete. The aim is to be a right of residence understood by landlords and tenants. The government has taken the first step within a short time. The savings for the tenants are obvious. Now social democracy is on the train. In Vienna, for example, reduce the water and wastewater charges that mayor Häupl brings over operating costs an annual profit of 800 million schilling! When Colleague Bures speaks of renters beggaring for apartments, she has passed through the practice of the municipality of Vienna: There you want to congratulate beggar tenants with the right party book! For some time now, the tenant market has been no longer a rental market, and this market rotation will make landlords happy if they can rent long-term. This new law brings more market to the benefit of tenants and less socialism to the benefit of the privileged.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7917	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e7938	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One of my previous speakers probably got into the bottom drawer of the fairy tale box, namely the clubman of the ÖVP, the constitutional judge Dr. Andreas Khol. – I don't see him, obviously he's looking for another fairy tale. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He is in the President's office with Mr Fischer on the basis of your weak urgent request!]] He claimed that the SPÖ had repeatedly welcomed the sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my group, I should like to reject this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You didn't "welcome" it, you ordered it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This government has begun to budget, to standardize and simplify living. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We just got it! We just got it!]] If you look at this government template, you actually have to check these theses for their authenticity and truth content. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do this! You will be successful!]] Mr Fekter! This reform is not worth the paper on which it is written. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No!]] Let me keep this with all the clarity. I'll try to explain this in detail. Mr Fekter! It is true that social democracy is not on the modernisation line. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Here you see!]] We are on the train of tenant protection, and this is about issues of social justice and social costs. We are equally concerned with cost reduction and cost reduction. But with this government template, you won't achieve that. I would like to say a few words about Mr Tancsits. Mr Tancsits meant that the proceeds would cease. . I would just like to remind you that the proceeds are primarily in the private sector, but the private sector is not addressed by this government template. Second: I have written along, Mr Tancsits. It is about the issue of the option of ownership. They meant where own resources are to be spent, they must be able to acquire property. Mr Tancsits! I mean, you're incompetent. They do not know the laws governing the housing of the countries. In the Federal Land of Salzburg, no building aid and no own funds support have been required since the extension of the housing scheme. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But in Vienna already, in Vienna already, and quite considerable!]] My question is: Now, do the tenants in Salzburg have the right to acquire property, or not? – You have remained guilty to us to this day. What is particularly distressing me is the fact that the private housing sector is not at all affected by the planned change. Let me give you just one example: Salzburg is the federal state with the highest proportion of properties and rented properties. We have the highest housing costs in Austria, and the rents continue to rise after the mirror of the real estate trustees. They rose by about 6.9 percent. I ask you: How do you intervene there? How to create You there cheaper rents for the people who have to live in rented apartments? – Your government template does not answer that. If I look at the young people in the gallery today, they'll all need an apartment once. You will have to use brokers and pay the brokers' fees. The brokers are high, Mr Tancsits! If you really want to make living, living costs cheaper, then I invite you to agree to our request, which is aimed at reducing the fees of real estate agents. Federal Minister Bartenstein! I am very grateful to you for having received from you the answer to the budget accompanying law. You say you're condoning, we say you're sorry. Let me give you some interesting figures. According to the Act on Budgetary Support, property owners must pay 1 percent of the loan sum as registration fee. We have in Austria – the number from 1997 – 7 292.8 million Schilling in construction savings loans. Do you know what that means? – That means that there are 800 million schillings a year that the future owners of housing will have to pay. Federal Minister! Speak in the explanatory remarks But they're only from 50 to 100 million schilling. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: 1 percent of 7 000 million are 70 million!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you want to make rent cheaper, you have to extend the scope of the rental law. Only then will there be cheaper rents. This claim, however, does not satisfy this government proposal. Let me end by coming to the caregivers. Mr Tancsits! I have here a remarkable article with the title "ÖAAB versus housekeepers", signed by Gerhard Spörk, ÖAAB, FCG-Kammerrat der Arbeiterkammer Salzburg. It says – I quote – that: Many caregivers regularly seek assistance as sickness and holiday representatives. This would be the best opportunity for the Vienna ÖVP/ÖAAB politicians to get to know the relatively extensive home-career job. The payment must, of course, be made in accordance with the current law on home-careers, which does not specify the salary levels used by Mr Wiener ÖVP/ÖAAB politicians. - Quote. Mr Tancsits! I can pass on this offer to you and the government parties. Our group rejects this bill. It is an expression of cause-related and punctual, unsystematic legislation. Simplification and harmonisation of housing law is not even evident in approaches. We therefore reject this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8083	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8104	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. High house! Substantial sanctions: Mr Maier, this government is fighting, with all democratic means, the sanctions of the EU-14, but where Gusenbauer is present, I think it is more bad than better to say to Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We all know how anti-bureaucracy and excessive dependence on the market have an impact on regulation. Simplification and harmonisation in residential law, as provided for in the 2000 residential law novel, is another important step in repressing the overwhelming bureaucracy, which is still going back to the time of the Danube monarchy and which has been successfully continued by the Social Democrats. Durable and sufficient housing for the people – that has always been the principle of their housing policy for the ÖVP. This proposal is another step in this direction. Our aim is to increase the ownership of the citizens, with the Greens, especially Mrs Moser, in the Committee and here again stating that ownership is not necessary. For me, these changes in the law are progressing, and it must be clearly stated that there will continue to be pure rental apartments. A big step is now being taken to make living cheaper for the tenants in Austria. The general discount of 25 percent is a clear signal to the market, as there was great uncertainty in the existing time-limiting arrangements. From a minimum term of three years, it is fully open to the top and can be freely chosen by the contracting parties. This new regulation increases flexibility and mobility through the free design of contracts for both market partners. This in turn increases the offer on the housing market, and there is a pressure on the rental price. The logical consequence is a reduction in rental prices. The expected termination right of the tenant in the case of temporary contracts after a year must probably become aware of everyone as a clear advantage for the tenant. However, the general discount of 25 percent, less bureaucracy and the renter's early termination right are not the only measures that should lead to a reduction in rents. Ladies and gentlemen! One of my most important points is the possibility of ownership in the non-profit sector. This has not only financial but also social consequences. You should give a young family the opportunity to purchase their apartment under certain conditions. This too, ladies and gentlemen, belongs to social justice. Another point, of course, is cost transparency. The repeated demand for cost transparency is finally fulfilled, and the reduction of the legislative text is referred to by many experts as being just too beneficial. We feel responsible for the people of this country, not only in the short term, but in the long run. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask you to agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8164	The next speaker was Mr Faul. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8186	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Firlinger, if you have been listened to by what polemics you have spoken about the basic needs of people – the right to live – as you have quoted the market economy and the planning economy, then I can only say one sentence: Behind your market economy is the plan to serve your clients, the homeowners, and this fits exactly in the overall plan of the Federal Government – the overall plan of redistribution from bottom to top. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Ask for the resistance with his penthouse!]] Mr Fekter, I would like you to live once as a minimum wage earner in a small Vienna apartment for only a month, because then you would certainly see the term "force economy" used by you among quite different auspices. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now a few reflections on your planned and supposed reduction in rental costs by the legal regulations of the time-limitation and thus on the discounts you often quoted. Once you really take a look behind the scenes, then the whole thing looks completely different. I quote you an old Burgenland saying we know in Styria: Twice settled is once burned down. – If an average period of about five years is required and the purchase costs of approximately 250 000 S for a family apartment are charged for the ten years, then monthly additional costs of 2 000 S are calculated only for the establishment – without the interest, calculated on the ten years. The costs for the broker, Mr Neudeck, and for the commissions to which you hold so tight: 25,000 s per occasion by three times. This will result in a further 650 S of monthly costs. In addition, the costs of adapting the apartments and, ultimately, the great costs of resettlement are added. And now you're taking care of: Based on the square meter price of a small family apartment with a size of about 80 m2, this alone entails monthly additional costs of 35 to 40 S per square meter. - Where's your approval?, I wonder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the problem of permanent sieving in general. I still trust a young family without children to withdraw from the pressure of the threatening rental interest rate increase, which results from the random desire for a further rent, because it is even easier for her to settle, although in a household of young people, friendships, friendships, and it is not necessarily easy to give up all of this. But what about families with children – children who are involved in kindergartens that have formed their communities in schools and have to leave this community behind every five years and how the nomads pass through the cities, constantly looking for new structures from which, hardly embedded, they have to come out again? And what about the old people in our society? I quote Mr Ofner, who so aptly described his father's living situation on television. Should our old people of 70, 75, 80, and more years of age be forced to change permanently, to be torn out of their environment where they like to live, to have the usual medical care and the people who offer them social assistance in quality neighborhoods? – I ask you: Is that your understanding of family policy? Is the expression of your social conscience? To the caregivers only one sentence – it has already been said a lot about it –: I live in a house that has been cared for by housekeepers and is now cared for by a cleaning company. Dear colleague Neudeck! Every handle costs something, and it has not become cheaper. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who says that?]] - I'll tell you that! I'll show you my bill. And finally, to the housing law of non-profit. They withdraw from the market rent-controlled apartments, which have been built for the people of lower incomes, apartments that can also afford little-earning people. [[Abg. Neudeck: You withdraw them because the wrong people live in the social apartments!]] They open the doors and gates to the speculators who are looking for access to these cheap apartments over strawmen – and we have experienced this – and you are raising in people the hope of buying the apartment. [[Abg. Neudeck: How is it with the congregation apartments where the false dwell?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The great speculators in Vienna are all in your dusk circle!]] [[Abg. Edler: But go!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! In the end, you will also leave home owners who have hopelessly taken over on the issue of financing and on the issue of monthly costs and will lose their supposed property again. I refer, Mrs Fekter, to my example from England, where your actions are exactly 1 million people – 1 million! – forced on the road, which then had to look for completely impoverished its future in residential containers and cheap residential weights. – Is this your vision of a liberal housing market in Austria? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The social democratic laws are very dull against the speculators!]] The people in our country will hopefully present the bill to you for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8346	Mr Sodian, the next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8367	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! "Living will be cheaper" is one of the goals of this federal government, and with this law we realize one of the most pressing concerns in the shortest time. This refers, on the one hand, to the reorganisation of the permissible time limits for lease contracts which are liberalised, harmonised and simplified. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the future, there will only be a fixed-term discount, which will enable all tenants to benefit from this temporary discount in terms of a temporary lease contract, i.e. those for which the appropriate rental rate has so far been paid. Moreover, temporary business space rents are also covered by this discount, which is also new. Finally, the Anachronist Homesupplier Act is also repealed. In my last speech, I have shown on the basis of a concrete example that the operating costs can be reduced by up to 25 percent if the caregiver is saved. This also confirms both Dr. Lugger and Dr. Amann, who have also spoken of 25 percent. So to speak here of an increase, Mr Commissioner, is really missing. On the comments made by Mrs Bures – I think you are, unfortunately, not in the Halle –: She said that there would be no reduction in rents, that rents would rise, that rental rights would be anti-family, that there would only be a bad situation, and that tenants would no longer have rights against the landlords if they wanted to extend the lease. She even said no one expert would have expected a rent reduction. I can only say that only her left ear is willing to hear. It is true, rather, that the 25 percent discount, as I have already mentioned, is now also valid at a reasonable rental rate: this is an acquittal, which cannot be denied. Furthermore, tenants of commercial premises that have a temporary rental contract now benefit from the 25 percent discount, and the discount is also extended to rental contracts, where up to now only 10 or 20 percent of the discount was planned. And in the case of unlimited subcontracts, there is now also a 25% discount. The repeal of the Home Carrier Act – which I have already mentioned – will also result in approvals and uniform and clear operating costs. Furthermore, tenants who live in one or two family houses, in a dwelling or are sub-rents now have the possibility to terminate their lease after a year. It's new, too. We enable the formation of property, and we no longer allow fictitious operating costs. But in one point you are right: The fact that we have not abolished the so-called peace crown interest continues to make these tenants preferable in the maintenance of the rental property at the expense of the young tenants – and this is your concern in part. The maintenance of the house is due to the receipts of all rents. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Also open your second ear, open your eyes to recognize – even the right one, yes – that we have taken a first step in the right direction here, namely towards reducing the rents! Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The right one! yours!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8417	The next speaker was Mr Edler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8438	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker should have missed the hearing. I have almost no opinion at all on how you took the basis of your speech. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! The whole procedure in the event of such a substantial change was unique. There was a big show of the announcement of the Federal Government, Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor announced: We will reduce rents, there will be greater security in this area! – None of this is the case, ladies and gentlemen. There is more uncertainty, and rents will rise. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Yours! Yours!]] Come back to the hearing. That was very interesting. You then got scared in the Committee's deliberations because Mr Bures asked for an opinion, and then you took the opportunity to carry out an opinion on the Committee. And these are the opinions from the representation of workers' interests to the economy. [[The speaker gives a big boost to written documents.]] You don't even listen to the economy again! [[Abg. Neudeck: The hearing was afterwards!]] What exactly did the economy say? – There will continue to be a business death in the business streets. Unfortunately we experience this in Vienna in many business streets due to the settlement of multi-groups at the city border. They want to continue to force this – the Minister has eased this again – so to speak, that the business streets will continue to be emptied in the future, and that is unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address the following: Mr Tancsits as Chairman and Mr ÖAPBER quite clearly said that we have been successful in Austria in recent years and decades, by involving the social partners, the professional group, when it came to the interests of a professional group. [[Abg. May. Tancsits keeps an output of the "profile" up to date.]] They did not do this for the first time, and I very much regret it. The members of the House or the responsible trade union representatives were willing to negotiate a reform of the Home Care Act. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: No, no, no!]] They were ready, but you didn't talk to them at all. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and that is very sad. [[Abg. Neudeck: So dizzying without turning red is something very rare! Not even the nose gets longer when you're dizzy!]] There was still this embarrassment shortly before the vote. They do not hesitate to do so without social partnership negotiations as far as the working time issues are concerned, with a very worrying request, namely an §-27 proposal, which is permitted under the Rules of Procedure, that night work for women should take place deep into account in the working time system. [[Abg. Neudeck: If you hadn't slept, you would have known it in good time! You just missed it!]] This is categorically opposed from our side, ladies and gentlemen. Summary: The SPÖ rejects this new residential property in 2000 because the rents are not reduced, but increased because this innovation creates more uncertainty and you simply drive over it via the caregivers. In particular, the address of the FPÖ is addressed: We have a beginner Vienna election campaign, and you constantly lose with your Vienna Obmann, who has difficulties with expressions like "Dump", "Hump" or "Lump". But you lose especially to the "little" man, to the "little" people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will tell the Vienneses how you, as a Vienna MP, are particularly confronted by this professional group, which has made it very difficult for you to do so. Service has had behavior that in the future a two-class society will be created, that you will outsource to cleaning companies and that in these atypical working conditions there will be. [[Abg. Neudeck: Because you have to work there!]] [[Abg. Grabner: You have an idea!]] It is not yet decided who is responsible for collective treaty negotiations. You do not yet know that you do not have a partner for the negotiations of the collective agreements! [[Abg. Neudeck: Because you slept!]] The way you go about this professional group is very unfortunate. We reject that categorically!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8592	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Firlinger has been reported at word level. Please start by replaying the claim to be corrected, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8616	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Edler has made the claim that the coalition parties would not have negotiated and talked to the home vendors. – That’s wrong! There must have been a discussion with the caregivers in front of the Committee on Hearing. Mr Edler has also claimed that there was a willingness in the SPÖ to negotiate a reform of the Home Care Act. [[Abg. Edler: That's right!]] – That’s wrong! There are repeated responses to questions, lastly by Mrs Hostasch, in which she sees no need for action for any changes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8652	Mr Tancsits has also made a statement on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8676	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Edler has claimed that no negotiations between the government parties with home providers and the relevant trade union took place. [[Abg. Edler: That's right!]] It's true that a fair round of negotiations was held on 18 November. At 5 p.m. here in the meeting room II with colleagues Kaske, Ehrlich and Roller took place. [[Abg. Look, look! Have you forgotten to tell you?]] [[Abg. Edler: Not an official!]] I would also like to point out that collective treaty negotiations can only take place between the social partners. We as representatives of the government parties can only inform about these legal projects.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8739	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8760	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One of the priorities of my previous political activity has been to reduce bureaucratic barriers to the economy or to our fellow citizens. My aim will continue to be to create only political frameworks. Within these frameworks, the economy and our citizens will be able to move and develop freely and creatively. The task of policy, as I understand it, is to promote and support these opportunities by deregulation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy about this new residential law novel in 2000. It's a step in the right direction. ==References== Novelle means a discharge for the tenants and brings simplification and clarity into the rental right. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, there is, as so often, a small advertising drop with my joy over this successful novel: the totally indisputable way you are uncertain about the opposition, especially you from the Social Democrats. There are about 30,000 home providers who are killed by their jobs.– That's a gross propaganda of the worst kind. Please leave that! This novice doesn't kill any of his livelihoods. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is only about replacing the house-career's law with collective contractual regulations that comply with modern labour law. However, the replacement of the Home-Supplier Act will certainly have an effect: The operating costs will be reduced. Our goal is to make living cheaper. In the case of temporary lease contracts, 25 per cent are now cut down uniformly and no limits are set to the upper limit. And one of the most important points: Most inconspicuous and impenetrable special arrangements become obsolete. The new type of contract will apply in the future to all contracts subject to the rental law. The contracting model is welcomed by most experts, and the long-required transparency in operating costs is finally realized. One more point I would like to address here: the possibility of the tenant to obtain the property he rented under certain conditions. The obvious advantage is the calculated renter savings that result from a purchase. Of course, no man is forced to buy his home, we leave it entirely to the individual and his decision. At the latest, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it would have to be clear that we are only trying to relieve the tenants by deregulation, by clear, non-irrational legislative texts and by structural reforms! What we clearly do not intend to do, however, is to assure the population how you are exaggerating it to us. For the first time, we give the tenant the opportunity to terminate an existing lease after a period of one year in compliance with a three-month notice period. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I urge you to make a constructive contribution at last instead of spreading fear and horror. [[Abg. Grabner: This is what you have to say to your group.]] Unfortunately, my colleague, I must fear that many opposition representatives – listen carefully! – they are hampered by their uncomplicated desire to travel to take care of the country's domestic policy concerns and its citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But this too would be part of your task! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to: Help to relieve our fellow citizens of the cost of living! [[Abg. Grabner: You can call on your group!]] My group will be pleased to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8823	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Kaipel to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8844	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with this novel, it was the party leaders of ÖVP and FPÖ who wanted to make people believe that there would be something cheaper. ==References====External links== However, the picture was completely different in May 2000. In this, expert criticism has confirmed the concern and fears of the social democrats that living is not cheaper, but more expensive, and that the rights of the tenants are also further restricted. In this context, the government is talking about a discharge action, but in fact it is an additional tax package. It was not until September 1999 that the last novel to housing law became effective. Their effects are not known to date, but this government is already taking further steps. New serious changes are being made in a Ho-ruck action without adequate examination of the legal and economic consequences. The result of these innovations is more temporary contracts, as any incentive for an indefinite period has been removed. The jungle of possible supplements is increasingly impenetrable even for experts. And the discount in the event of a delay is deducted from non-comprehensible rental rate calculations, i.e. 25 percent deduction of anything does not automatically mean that there is something going to be cheaper. The tenant protection is removed de facto. tenants wishing to extend their leases have no way of asserting their rights to the landlord. There will only be more for good tenants who do not resist, who do not dress up, an extension. You're talking about 25 percent discount, but it's less than it was before, 30 percent! So also from this title the rents become more expensive. It is also to be feared that surcharges will be applied to indefinite contracts. To the caregivers: They're destroying a professional image. Mr Ellmauer, even if 30 000 jobs are not liquidated from the start, they are still in danger. They also did not accept the offer to negotiate a reform of this law. I am not surprised by the way the ÖVP is doing, but the FPÖ's explanation is interesting in this context, because it always wants to be a protectionist of the small people. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's not true what you say...!]] In the future, caregivers will be replaced by adequate home care costs for which there are no ceilings, and this will result in more expensive living. This not only claims the so "evil" opposition, but it is also confirmed by the experts. At the same time, there will no longer be a mandatory catalogue, which can lead to lower quality. Less quality for more costs, ladies and gentlemen – there is no reason to vote here. I call on you to think again about whether there can be a way to obtain the professional status of the caregivers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will also be no approval in the area of cooperative dwellings, there will also be price increases there, only because of the possibility of calculating higher restructuring contributions. In order for housing to actually become cheaper, we Social Democrats support the workers' chamber's request for a reduction in broker fees, as we are more than 40 percent above the average in European comparison with broker fees. We Social Democrats call for the reduction of real estate fees, further clear rent limits for private rental apartments, the reduction of the indicative values, the improvement of the protection of terminations, the provision of the rental interest reserve for all investments, cheaper housing costs for young people, a reduction in operating costs and the cost of home administration, and more co-determination for the tenants. It is unfortunate that neither the results of the hearing nor the results of the review procedure have been incorporated into the law, although the majority of experts believe that the draft is not balanced, that there is still much that is open and, above all, a whole professional image is destroyed. It is worrying to decide on such essential interventions in labour law without talking to the social partners about it. Ladies and gentlemen! This law will not be passed by our votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8893	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour reported in word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e8914	Mr President. Minister! High house! There is the agreement of the coalition partners to create a comprehensive housing right novel, a residential law novel that simplifies and liberalizes housing law, and that is good. There are now drafts in this House which are a first step in the right direction, because there is indeed a need for action in the law of residence. There are only a few areas that are as vague and as complicated as that is in the case of housing law. The right of residence is distributed through many laws, the individual regulations are declared, and above all there is a small amount of inconsistuous individual schemes. All in all – and this has already been mentioned several times today – is a legal area in which even lawyers are struggling to find a comprehensive solution. Mr Jarolim has said here today that the right of residence, the right to rent is somehow a kingly discipline, with special legal fines and special legal fines needed to find themselves there. – This is exactly an expression of the fact that there is much here in the arrogance! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is precisely rental law which requires special simplicity and understanding, because the rules we are talking about here are very, very many people. Above all, the rental law provides the basis for their housing conditions for large areas of the population. As the situation is at the moment, it is true that citizens cannot really recognize themselves and even in the simplest rental matters without legal assistance have no chance of finding their way out. Therefore, SPÖ should not be left out of the drawing either in this area. You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, have created this system considerably. It may also be true that your group may not have such a great interest in creating something really transparent and simple in this matter, considering that Mrs Bures, as Chairman of the tenants' association, has an essential interest in the fact that the customers who do not know the tenants do not know, otherwise the tenants do not need them. But transparency and simplicity are our goal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You don't believe that yourself!]] For this reason, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, this government will also work for people in this area and create clear and simple rules. In the case of temporary lease contracts, there will be a uniform reduction of 25 percent for all temporary lease contracts. The rental right will be simple, it will lead to an approval, and, in the case of temporary contracts, it will be a strongly extended termination right – well-notified for the tenant! – give. Again and again that was a point of criticism. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bures! You said today that you have to do something for young people looking for apartments. You're right. Especially for young families, especially young people, this innovation will make significant improvements. [[Abg. Bures: It's all more expensive!]] And you know that in truth, too! In particular in the field of housing public utility law, easier access to the housing property option will be achieved, thus promoting the formation of property. This particularly promotes the formation of property among young people who want to create a living room that wants to buy an apartment for their young family. That's what this government stands for, and that's what this novelle stands for. It is therefore irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, as you fear at this point, as you deliberately insure thousands of people. That's your policy! This is your policy, Mrs Colleague, which you have been practicing for several months now, by not bringing forward proper solutions by making all that comes from the government's side bad. [[Abg. Silhavy:... Your policy!]] They operate everything in all simple fundamental opposition! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] But it will become apparent over time for the tenants you are now deliberately insecure that these new regulations bring with them many improvements. Finally, let me say the following: Of course, the present drafts are only a first step in the right direction. Further steps towards harmonisation and transparency in residential law will follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9011	Again, Mrs Moser spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9051	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We just heard: Further steps will follow. – That was the motivation for me to put some things right again. First: You do not believe that for young people – especially for young people – your new residential space will be cheaper. Look at what your own experts said! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Magister Schender must know! He's young! He knows! That's what he looked at! As a young man, he knows!]] Look Look at the literature and look at the advertisements in the newspapers above all! Look at the rental costs per month you get smaller apartments for students or how high the rents on the free market are for young families! Look Once again, you can make the offer in the so-called assisted area! That is the state of affairs, and this situation will certainly not be improved by the measures you are planning now. However, I would also like to remind Mrs Fekter. They have cited examples from the UK. What did that mean? - Right to buy. – You have to quote correctly and also admit that in the UK a total of 3.5 percent of the gross domestic product is necessary for housing money so that people can afford to rent in real estates. We in Austria apply only 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product for housing money. I think our data speak for our system, and the data from the UK speak for a system for which you are now opening with this new residential law door and gate. On the one hand, I do not want taxpayers – taxpayers of mothers, small earners' taxpayers, taxpayers also from many rich earners – to flow into housing aid, because on the other hand you put everything in the pockets of the property owners. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You are peculiar!]] I do not want that; therefore, a clear distance and a clear no to the British road. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You also have an apartment! Where do you live?]] The second correction: I have not spoken out in any way against Mr Firlinger and Mr Freund in any way. Mr Firlinger! They've submitted to us, we don't want property, we want communism. – That is not at all true. On the contrary: I was very, very strong in favour of property, but I said that at a time when we have to reorganize the budget in which there is a need to stop holes, when pensions are reduced, in which women, in particular, single-earned women, are left as veins, I cannot imagine that we are further promoting property formation with taxpayers. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Dr. Drinkl and Großruck]] Yes to property, but please not at the expense of those who pay the taxes – especially the poor and the beneficiaries of small incomes! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, a few words on what Mr Klubobmann Khol sent about the APA yesterday. The general motto was: This is the week of harvest in Parliament. – Today you are entering a harvest, which means: Rosin harvest for real estate owners, rosin harvests for those who can afford it, rosin harvests for those who have something on the high edge. – This is not our policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9130	Mr Van der Waal (PPE). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. You know § 58 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9155	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In his speech Mr Schender claimed that the Austrian tenants' association would be interested in the complexity of the rental law, because otherwise the clients would leave. Mr. Schender! I agree with your young people that you have claimed to be incorrect and have expressed white nonsense here, because, rather, Mr Khol, the right thing is that, as in the past, in the present and by your legal decisions, the tenants in Austria need to protect the owners and the courage of the owners in the future. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Empty nonsense" did you say?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is "white nonsense"?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9223	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft legislation on housing rights in 2000 and the title and receipt in 122 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the working time law and the federal law on the night work of women, including the title and entry into 123 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to the draft law in question, to give them a positive sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its 140 Supplements report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its 141 Supplements report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and it is accepted. We shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 124 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority and thus adopted. 6. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the European Parliament and the Council to the Council (Doc. Ulrike Lunacekund Comrades concerning a federal law aimed at eliminating discrimination against homosexuals and communities (142 of supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9339	We shall now proceed to item 6 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9367	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Quote: We respect the decision of people who, in other forms of partnership, seek to realize their life's design. This also applies to gender partnerships. We advertise for tolerance and turn against any form of discrimination. We want to examine the legal obstacles to common life and care. - Quote. These well-formed sentences, these truly supportive words do not come, as one would say, from the Social Democrats, not from the Liberals, not from the Greens, no, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, they come from your sister party, from the CDU! These wordings were used in their key proposal at the party meeting last year in December. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I think there will have been someone from your party to the sister party who may have reported here in Austria about this new spirit of family policy within the CDU. I believe that perhaps one or the other of you has come to believe that this is something you can agree with that is worthy of imitation. Here and today, ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to express your views. This proposal is precisely in line with the idea of the new CDU family policy. And you have the opportunity to remove discrimination here in Austria, namely discrimination that happens only because of sexual orientation – and that is a shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I turn, above all, to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. I really appeal to you: Think about whether you should not abolish these discriminations! What prevents you from getting smarter overnight? – That is what a great Christian Democrat has said, that is, Konrad Adenauer. The basic issue of this legislative amendment is the elimination of a particular form of discrimination against people who are taking place on the grounds of their sexual inclination. When it comes to the elimination of discrimination, that is to say, in the final effect, a more just, a more humane society, in order to respect the European Convention on Human Rights – and it has been understood in the spirit of these thoughts – in order to respect the Treaty of Amsterdam, or even in general, to a more humane society, then it is not allowed to close these requests, ladies and gentlemen, whether they are currently being dealt with in a separate subcommittee of the Justice Committee, with a view to discussing § 209 StGB, which long-standingly needs a new regime, or others. I really hope that movement will come into this debate that hundreds of thousands of people in this country will not be discriminated against and their love, Mr Schweitzer, cannot live. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You have prevented this!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, this proposal is intended to regulate civil law matter, the civil law aspect of the problems of homosexuals. There is a long-standing change in the rules of civil procedure. It's about the right of censure. It is an important measure that this will be improved, as has already been decided in the criminal code in the course of the last legislative change. It is also about changes to the housing property law. It is also about changes to the rental law as well as changes to the Soziaversicherungsgesetzen. And what is it all about? – It’s actually something very simple: At present, homosexual communities have only a few – we believe too few – rights. In the case of heterosexual partnerships there is the right of entry in the case of death, there are certain rights in labour and social law, such as the exemption from care in the case of sickness and so on. Unfortunately, heterosexual couples are not yet entitled to a joint acquisition of an apartment. But why, ladies and gentlemen, can we not also grant these other rights to homosexual couples? – This is not an attack on marriage at all. There's no one in front of the Traualtar. Ladies and gentlemen! There people want – yes, people! – people like you and I are simply being legalised. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Mrs Fekter! You're just reading a template so hard. I know you always argue that homosexuals can conclude private contracts. But this does not have a binding effect for a landlord or for an employer; you know that too. When a homosexual couple conclude a private contract, it has no binding effect. At the moment, it looks like in the rental law only "life communities" are talking about. Only recently has the Supreme Court found that this means explicitly only heterosexual communities. That is why we, as legislators, must ensure that something happens in this direction. We from the SPÖ would take a slightly different path here than the Greens. Instead of changing her individual laws, we believe that there would be a simpler solution, namely a provision for equality in the ABGB, according to which heterosexual and homosexual communities are understood as "Communitys of life". At the same time, however, it would have to be – and this is a big concern to me – a long overdue appreciation of communities in general, but today they are a very important form of living together. Let us not shut ourselves to the need of many people who say: We don't want to get married, we don't want to get married, we just want to live together like that! I think of Shakespeare: "Drum test who binds himself forever, whether the heart finds itself to the heart." [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was Schiller and not Shakespeare! In "The Song of the Bell" by Schiller!]] Thank you. But that's nice. Let's not shut up with this! Let us let the young people do what they would like to do, namely to live together for some time and then decide. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] – Well, with quotations you should be careful. We are convinced... – Mr Gaugg! [[Abg. Gaugg: What's going on? That's incredible!]] Just listen! Maybe I can touch your heart. We are convinced that in Austria we are in the process of eliminating discriminatory laws – including § 209 of the German Civil Code (StGB), which includes relevant laws in the rental law – that if we do not even say that we are in breach of the contract when it comes to the elimination of discrimination regarding homosexuality. The fact is that: There are five appeals by the European Parliament regarding the outstanding abolition of § 209 of the StGB. There are substantial judgments of the European Court of Human Rights – yes, right! – in matters of discrimination of homosexual couples. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: May I ask you a question?]] This is primarily about the age difference, because there is double discrimination, especially for the girls. The fact that male sexuality is a more protective one than that of young women is not at all clear! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are ongoing proceedings which affect Austria before the European Court of Justice. There is a call from the UN Committee on Human Rights to abolish § 209 of the Criminal Code. There's this one. [[Abg. Neudeck: There's the worm inside!]] And there is a report from the Council of Europe, as you will also be called for, Mr Schweitzer, in which the Member States in the Council of Europe are recommended to eliminate all discrimination. That's what it looks like! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: May I ask you a question?]] I hope you will take part in the Parliamentary Assembly with the relevant laws. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can then speak. It would be important for someone to speak out of the government parties, because it is surprising that no one will speak of you. I do not believe that the issue is not important enough to you, but I hope that you are still in a period of reflection. I hope so! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: There's the worm inside!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Can I ask a question now?]] Finally, I would like to mention the following: There is the Treaty of Amsterdam and this one was negotiated by the then Foreign Minister Schüssel with Italian Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini. The then Federal Foreign Minister and current Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselhat, in this contract – at least in newspaper reports – was indicted – and this is explicitly stated in the Treaty of Amsterdam, which has been in force since last year – that discrimination on the grounds of sex is held as combatative. - That's commendable. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Now I expect the current Federal Chancellor to have these declarations of intent here in Austria become laws and we are doing exactly what we are called upon to do as legislators to eliminate discrimination against people. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Coming to the end: I would like to mention briefly that Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer is also a member of a homosexual initiative. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, exactly!]] She is a board member of LAMBDA. I assume that, of course, your side, from the FPÖ, will also work to ensure that rights to homosexuals are introduced in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But duty it doesn't have to be!]] - No, no, don't worry! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! In the light of these remarks I ask you to: Don't let your party leaders down, and above all, don't let the homosexual people down! Work with us to eliminate these discriminations! Let us also make Austria Europe mature on this point and give the homosexuals the rights that they have been deprived of for years!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9603	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9635	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Wurm has already outlined on a rough scale the very comprehensive initiative proposal that the Greens have brought against discrimination against homosexuals and communities of life. I would therefore just like to add a few additions. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important argument for the final elimination of laws that discriminate against communities of life – in this case equal sexual communities – is provided by the § 72 Criminal Code. Those ladies and gentlemen who have already been members of the National Council, when we have novelled § 72 StGB, know what it is all about. This is about the right of censure, which is very important in criminal proceedings. That is why the first point that the Greens are calling for in their multiple areas of human cohabitation is to define this provision of the StPO, which treats all persons living in communities of life and gives them the possibility of the right of censure to testify in an analogous way in the ZPO, namely the right of refusal of evidence. In fact, there are no partners of this right. Ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, there is no objective justification and no argument that you could deny. That is why I am not surprised that you are not talking about the government parties: because you are missing the words in these cases and because it is not to be argued why you are closing this issue. That's why you're silent. This is actually consistent and therefore every call, and if she is still so benevolently meant by Mrs Wurm's colleague, is completely pointless. You lack the words that you can't argue about trying to argue here. Ladies and gentlemen! That is it, and there is a sustainable violation of human rights in Austria in connection with discrimination against homosexuals. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As a result, this is a break from the Preamble which the President of the Federal Republic has presented to the Federal Chancellor Schüssel – then Vice-Chancellor – and to the former party chairman Haider – now a simple party member. The signature of this Preambel was songless and soundless – but really songless and soundless! – because it has not yet produced any effects. There is a sustainable violation of human rights in Austria by this § 209 StGB. If I continue to do so, I could just as well say that it is also a sustainable violation of human rights if it is consciously and deliberately discriminated against when provisions contained in the Austrian legal order discriminated against people who have a sexual orientation other than the majority in that country. We Greens have summarised several examples of legal life in the initiative proposal, including social security law. This matter came to the Committee on Justice and is briefly on the agenda today, because this would also require a change in the law on rent and, above all, a change in the law on housing property. Tell this – as you always say so beautifully – to people "out there" when you are asked! Why can’t people who are not married but who live together for years in so - called former communities actually buy a common home?- Oh, my God! Why can't a grandmother and her granddaughter, who have a common household living together in the household, acquire a common home? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: It's possible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! No human being "outside" – under quotation marks – has an understanding of this, because – and the explanation is a simple one – that is patriarchal, conservative consciousness, which is set out in laws, trying to maintain a picture of society that has long since existed. There is what you believe to be able to normize by laws, in reality not: the so-called health family in which there is always mom, dad, children and all are beautifully married. That is no longer the norm, ladies and gentlemen. Only the laws will frighten them! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is a sad fact that marriages are divorced, that connections are split. But the ÖVP is the meat, because you are only important that the old patriarchal thought patterns be further anchored. And the ladies of the ÖVP, the female Members, keep silent about it or call in between. But this has not had any effect yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Has Don't worry: When it comes to eliminating discrimination from our laws, we will not let go of it, and we will also bring these requests back in order to actually discuss them and not only to "handle" them as you have done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9700	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of his report 142 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – That's the majority. The request was accepted. 7. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (47 of the Supplements): International Convention on the Control of Terrorist Bombs (138 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (51 of the Supplements): Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Canada on extradition (139 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (92 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Order (146 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9772	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. The first speaker to speak was Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9802	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, at the beginning of my previous speech, I forgot to welcome you, although you have already been here. I'm sorry, it wasn't meant to be evil. Mr. Federal Minister, I will turn directly to you. Mr Federal Minister, you know that the Greens have already given their approval to the Committee on the Novelty of the Criminal Code, because those measures that have now been legislatedly implemented in the judicial area under your leadership and have been discussed in the National Council are nothing new. For a few years the public has been discussing the necessary decriminalisation, the need for a change in Krida's law, and the demands in this regard are more than legitimate. And now, as I mean – I see this in a sense only as a first step – a part is being implemented. They fully agree that economic risk should not be subject to criminalisation as quickly as it has been in the past or so far. I believe that this will only have a positive effect. This concerns – more or less without exception – virtually all economic life. Federal Minister! But I don't get to say the following: We are discussing here a novel of the Criminal Code – a novel of the Criminal Code does not exist every day, as we know – and we in the Committee on Justice are always very concerned about not using this instrument inflationaryly. StGB novels are, so to speak, "anything else," because the StGB is not any law, but one of the central standards of our legal order. Therefore, a certain legal certainty is also necessary in the sense that one knows what is established. That's why we are very careful with StGB novels. It would therefore be an intense concern to us, Mr Federal Minister – now I am addressing you, Federal Minister, directly and personally – to use this opportunity of a StGB-Novelle to discuss certain cases of this criminal code, which appear to us to be more than contentious, and to eliminate it in the truest sense of the word from the criminal code, because they were there, according to our wishes and conviction, in the 21st century. There is no room in the century in which we are located. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One of these paragraphs – I am now drawing it up as an example; many others, such as the § 188 StGB, Blasphemy, are more than worthy of discussion, there will also be initiatives – have been very discussed in the last few weeks, especially through your statement, Mr. Federal Minister, namely § 248 StGB, dignification of the state and its symbols. Probably very many or almost all people in Austria did not know that there is the § 248 StGB at all. So "significant" he has been in the Judicature and, if you want to, in the social life of the last decades – until a simple party member of the Freedom Party has come to the idea of using these paragraphs to discuss this. Mr Federal Minister, we have had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions, not least in the context of the mistrust that the Green Group has put against you in connection with the idea of criminalising the opposition, i.e. the critic of the government and the critics of political links in Austria, the criticism that comes from circles of opposition. It seems that one looked into the criminal code and looked at where "state" is, and meant that one could attach it. Federal Minister! At the time, I did not fully understand your argument that you put forward in the National Council for your "defense" – under quotation marks. Therefore, it would be interesting to hear an authentic interpretation of your part of § 248 StGB; to hear how this one was repeatedly expressed by the simple member of the party and the vice-president – the Chancellor has kept silent about it, he has never expressed himself – attack on democracy, the rule of law and liberality in this country, in order not only to address the political opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] In my personal opinion – the Green Group is uniquely of this opinion – § 248 StGB has simply lost nothing in the criminal code today, because it was in fact nothing else in the last decades and is only an attempt to restrict artistic freedom – it was applied – and to criminalize artists. This is the one level, and the other level is practically – I say that now, although technically incorrect – dead right. I therefore propose the following amendment in the course of the discussion on the negligent Krida: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to what we have experienced in the last few days and what we can put in this context, to the process of a government party – until a few months ago it was an opposition party, but now it is a party that is in charge and thus Austria is represented outside – and how it holds it with the present of this country – see Haider and his attack on democracy, on the free expression of opinion and on the free mandate in connection with the criminalisation of the opposition. On the other hand, it is about how to keep up with the past – and now with the language dealing with the past. It has – unfortunately, I must say; I am ashamed of it – a Member of this House, that is, Mr Windholz, has demonstrated a historical knowledge that really testifies to some "maturity". He, because he is obviously so imaginative in language, has said something before him, which he then, after having expressed more than real aversion to this sentence in the public, has meant: Oh, I'm sorry, as a low Austrian, I thought about it myself with my linguistic formulation. – "Even considering", namely termini and phrases from the National Socialist era, which at that time were something like the constitution of the spirit that has shaped this time. – And he says that he has written this together in language! Ladies and gentlemen! My topic is not the credibility of Mr Windholz's argument, but the reaction of the simple party members of the Freedom Party. The simple party members of the Freedom Party say to quote SS words – now I quote literally –: It can't be a bad thing if someone confesses to propriety, fidelity, honesty and power consciousness. [[Abg. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Listen!]] Is it not in any way known to you that it cannot be a bad thing to endorse the employment policy of the National Socialist Empire that it cannot be a bad thing to promise the Waffen-SS face to face that it cannot be a bad thing to come near the denial of the National Socialist crimes, as we have unfortunately also experienced this from a former colleague-college, namely Gudenus, who now has the true tastelessness to call compensation payments to forced workers as protective money. Ladies and gentlemen! That's system! This is the system that has been applying the liberals permanently since I watch them say something, then says: [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Pittermann]] I'm sorry, I just thought of this! Sorry, I take everything back!, but then what was previously apologised will be repeated in the third sentence thereafter. Ladies and gentlemen! The seed that is sown must go up! The "comrades" – under quotation marks – understand Your messages, which you send to them, they understand very well. That's what you're trying to do. With this linguistic approach, you aim to constantly undermine the sensitivity that would be required in this context, because you have to send messages there, because that is your conviction, because there has never been a truly credible distance, because your relationship to the past of Austria is a questionable one, because a party whose simple party member calls Austria a miscarriage would be the first case to apply the § 248 StGB. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Posch]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner]] [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! § 248, however, is abolished, and it is clear whether what colleague Windholz has said – with whatever consciousness and any form of art – is not subject to the practice of the § 3 g of the Prohibition Act. That is what I expect today, especially from Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer. You, Mr. Federal Minister, are the chief Lord of the Public Prosecutor's Office, you are responsible for the fact that this is going to work if it is to be read in the newspapers. I suppose the prosecutors are just like you, Minister of State, and I'm reading the paper. I am not standing next to Mr Windholz when he said that, but it has been transported in all Austrian media. I don't need any representations of matters, because no one needs to send letters to the prosecutor's office, I don't need any ads from the security authorities in Lower Austria – I have to act there, I have to clarify and there I have to check! If that doesn't happen, Minister of State, then you have to order it to happen. This is what we expect, Mr Federal Minister, and we would like to have explained this here today. This would be a real contribution that you could make in your responsibility as Minister of State, but also as a member of this Federal Government in the sense of the Preamble already mentioned, which the two leaders of the Federal Government have signed, in the sense of the responsibility for the image that Austria is giving inward and outward. That is where you, Mr Federal Minister, now have the possibility of a file of reparation. If you take her, we'll see you this afternoon.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9916	There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Mag. Stoisits to the Government Template 92 of the Supplements. It is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9940	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have to discuss one of the few legislative instruments that need not, in fact, the protection of the maintenance of the so-called EU sanctions imposed by ÖVP and FPÖ, Mr Klubobmann Khol, because it is one of the few laws which are not a social attack but based on broad consensus. Nevertheless, what Mr Stoisits has said before me is of course to take into account, and I think that the request made regarding § 248 StGB is a basis for discussion which we have to deal with relatively intensively, not least because even the Ministry of Justice, in particular a head of section, in connection with the statements made by the head of the Kärntner State, has taken the view that if something had to be described as a violation of § 248 recently, so that it would actually apply, then this would be the statement made by the head of state Haider on the miscarriage that Austria would be as a nation. I believe that it is useful and good to discuss the provision of § 248 StGB, but I do believe that it is not necessarily necessary to deal with it here today, but rather that it would be better to address it in a further spectrum, in order to really present and address all the arguments that exist in different directions. On the subjects themselves, the other speakers of my group will comment, I would just like to say that the negligent Krida, the present Krida Tatstand, has a longer history. In essence, there is agreement that this case-law, as it has been applied in court, as expressed in expert opinions, has often led to a massive disability of parts of the economy. That's why it's good that he's being lifted. I would like to see the same generosity, the same understanding, and the same humanity that is based on this draft, discussed – in the context of a committee of inquiry, a discussion on the out-of-court settlement of acts, the division, is planned. On this occasion, I must thank the Federal Minister once again for preventing Klubobmann Khol from entering this legislative period, namely the repressing of the division, on the basis of his objective access to this subject. In this sense, I believe that we are going a little further with these laws. However, we should also bring the thoughts and the idea behind them into this committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e9983	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10018	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a number of agenda items under one, especially interesting is of course the International Convention on the Control of Terrorist Bombs. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I forgot about the dolphin, maybe you can say something about it!]] Actually, there's only one case I remember, and that's Ebergassing. Mr. One came to the hall in good time. – Ebergassing has never really been clarified. At the beginning – I remember well – in the "ZiB 1" was still talking about a right terrorist attack, but then in the "ZiB 2" this false report was no longer repeated because one already knew that the bombing forces, which unfortunately died in this bombing attack, came out of the left "TATblatt" scene. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Now you're already starting to defend!]] One of the suspects is still on his feet. I hope we might find out more about this today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I would like to focus more intensively on the novel in 146 of the supplements, namely Krida-Strafrecht. I have here the insolvency statistics of the AKV for the first quarter of 2000. On the one hand, these insolvency statistics show slightly declining trends in the field of insolvency, but on the other hand a terrifying picture. There were 27 compensations in the first quarter, i.e. in the first three months, which faced 1,338 bankruptcy proceedings, with less than 20 percent of the forced compensation, i.e. 1,338 bankruptcy proceedings, with almost nothing left. In addition, there are additional 923 procedures, which have been rejected in the absence of any mass. So that's a total of 2 288 insolvency. Surprisingly, for me, the high proportion of private insolvency was according to these statistics, namely, 836. [[Abg. Swimmlein: What do you think about it?]] Thus, in the private sector, a share is almost as high as in the business sector, and this is very terrifying. [[New call for tender of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] In the insolvency statistics there is also a comment that says that the slight change – of course positive change, because there are fewer insolvencys compared to the same period of the previous year – must not be overlooked that only 27 real recovery cases have occurred from the insolvency area and that this fact is a total of 2 261 bankruptcy cases. It means: The causes are clearly in the poor operating conditions, combined with partly grossly negligent Krida stocks. The cancer ulcer bankruptcy cannot be treated by the impunity of negligent cridatas, but only by maintaining the warning rod in the window with the grossly negligent Krida Tat stock, the relevant criminal right and the early use of necessary in-house, i.e. business reorganisation measures. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are well-informed, you can say that the Reorganisation Act leads to the fact that reorganisation measures are already taking place in advance and that therefore only 27 compensations – that is about 1 percent – are officially reorganised via the court path. The fact that I was particularly frightened is the high proportion of bankruptcys that were rejected in the absence of mass, namely 923. To this end, we need to know that, if there is a lack of mass being rejected, there is no procedure either. That means: Cover to, put on act, and no Krida strut. That is, those who make everything aside somehow get away with it. But those who suffer economic failure may have a Krida procedure pending. That is why we have reformed this law in so far as only more of the practice of grossly negligent religious conduct is punishable when it is really a matter of someone really misusing his creditors. Economic failure is not supposed to end in jail.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10095	Mrs. Dr. Fekter, did you not want to read a request? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to draw my attention to the fact that I have tabled an amendment, namely the following four-party amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is about the amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Order by 1. ==References====External links== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10167	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10192	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not intend to deal with the two requests on an international basis, but only in a few sentences with the new regulation of the problem of Krida, then also with my previous speaker, Mrs Stoisits, and with what she has done to us today. First of all, on the problem of the Krida: From this point of view, many, including me, have tried for many years to meet the requirements of our time. Fortunately, very soon after the start of the work of the new Federal Government, we got away from the negligent Krida, as it has so far dominated the field. In fact, it is true that in Austria, if I have heard it correctly, we have had about 15 000 procedures in the year following the paragraphing of the negligent Krida. It has been very common that young, business-ready people have believed all those who have spoken to them, in Austria there are too few self-employed people, one has to make himself independent, and if one lacks the money, one has to take up a loan. And hardly did this go wrong, as it was often not to be expected otherwise, the individuals found themselves in front of the judge. There has been a ritual – and not less and no more –: Depending on the amount of damage, the people have been sentenced to three or four months depending on the court and the court. But one thing was always the same, namely the enormous cost of these procedures, because expert opinions were always collected, at least one that cost tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of thousands of schilling, which could never be paid by the convicted accused, because there were always all procedural costs ineffective. That is to say, these procedures from the criminal policy side have cost the Republic of Austria many, many millions. It's really high time we cleared up with this mistreatment. It is therefore very warm to welcome the novelle. Now to Mrs Stoisits, first of all to her request concerning the deletion of § 248. Whoever deletes § 248 StGB completely overlooks the fact that there are already sayings that will cause you to be careful and to maintain such provisions. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: The Miscarriage!]] For example: "Fire and flame for this state!" – Isn't that a little familiar to you, ladies and gentlemen? Further: "Come time, come counsel, come attack!" – Everything is not invented by the liberals; it comes from a completely different direction. Then: "Stop the cops like stubble!" – Think of these things, if you demand that a provision of law such as § 248 StGB, dignification of the state and its symbols be lifted! But something else: Mrs Stoisits has dealt with statements attributed to the head of state in Carinthia and, second, to the Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "Ascribed" is good!]] The statements you have made, Mrs Stoisits, are wrong. You have to object, although most of you have already realized that this is not right, otherwise these pious fairy tales are solidified. It cannot be said that the criminalisation of the opposition would have been required. Nor can it be said that critics of the government should have been put behind bars – even that has already been claimed. It could not have been an attack on democracy, the rule of law, the liberality, the freedom of expression and the free mandate, but rather on something quite different, namely, the following case – and I wonder whether some unconventional observer can come up with such ideas, if not everyone has to share them – that a parliament elected in Austria and in Austria marches abroad on the interests of the Republic and there says to the representatives of other states: "Please, help us against our own government! Make sure she's thrown down! Takes care of the appropriate measures that bring this government to a halt." - That's it! It is not a criticism of the critics, it is not the criminalization of the opposition, it is not the attack on democracy, the rule of law, liberalism, freedom of expression, but it is a question of breaking the head of what is really going on in men and women who are going abroad and are making their mood against Austria and trying to lead against the Austrian Federal Government appropriate measures that – literally – lead "to their fall". And if there's something like that, then you have to break your head over how to react to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10259	The next speaker was Mr Otto Pendl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10283	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, terrorism is still an international problem, and its consistent fight is still a command of our time. Terrorism must be firmly opposed to whatever form it may take, with all the means permitted and possible in the rule of law. The international cooperation of all states is becoming increasingly important, because since terrorism is an international phenomenon, its manifestations must also be coordinated internationally. This International Convention on the Control of Terrorism Attacks serves this objective. That is why I think it is right and necessary that we ratify this agreement. Years ago, in the face of an increasing number of horrendous terrorist bombings – in the parliamentary materials, for example, Lockerbie – the international community decided to develop an international legal instrument in order to counter such terrible attacks more effectively in the future. To this end, the General Assembly of the United Nations has set up a working group, and this working group has drawn up a text of the Convention, which was adopted on 19 June. ==References====External links== Commission of the General Assembly adopted without a vote. ==References== In December 1997, the General Assembly adopted the text of the Convention with resolution 52/164. This Convention refers to a very specific form of terrorism. For this purpose, Article 2 defines a criminal offence. Thus, in accordance with paragraph 1, a criminal offence within the meaning of this Convention shall be committed, unlawfully and intentionally, by means of an explosion or other deadly device, to one of the entities defined in paragraph 1 or by means of an attack, trigger or explosion against such a person, provided that the perpetrator intends to cause death, serious injury or serious injury to the body. Article 1 contains definitions on the terms "public or public body", "service body", "state forces", "public transport system", and so on. The Contracting States commit themselves to the existence of this Convention, i.e. essentially the preparation and execution of bombings of that kind and to participating in criminal proceedings under certain conditions and to justify the jurisdiction of that Convention. Furthermore, the Convention contains obligations for intergovernmental legal assistance and extradition. Article 19 makes it clear that this Convention does not affect the other rights and obligations arising from international law. The activities of armed forces during armed conflict and the activities of armed forces in the performance of their service duties shall be excluded from the scope of this Convention, provided that they are covered by other rules of international law. Ladies and gentlemen! This Agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day following the deposit of the twenty-second instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. So far, according to parliamentary materials, 47 states have signed the Convention, five of which have ratified the Convention. It is desirable that this Agreement should enter into force soon. Today, with our decision-making, we are contributing to an even better fight against international terrorism.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10346	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10368	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am very surprised by what is said by the government in this debate, especially the words of Mr Ofner, because I assumed that you know the legal situation in Austria well enough not to fall into the nebulous accusation of a political attitude in the field of criminal law. If it is true that specific offences are committed or that criminal acts are called upon, which is not the case in the statements you have made, but if it is the case that someone calls into criminal acts, then that is – and you know it yourself very well – a different section from § 248, which is punishable in Austria. I don't see any sense in double that, unless it's really about punishing your mind. And I'm afraid it's about this federal government. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Also at the address of Mrs Fekter, also in her capacity as Judge: I really urgently seek to be precise and accurate in the area of criminal accusations. If you're talking about specific crimes, about suspects, about people who may still be arrested, then we're talking about people, about perpetrators, about perpetrators. It didn't commit or answer a scene. If you assume that people might have the same ideological background, creating a criminal accusation from it, then that is exactly what is a danger for an independent, extra-party, a rule of law. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You didn't listen!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know you're outrageous. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is not outrageous!]] It also shocks me because many things go in this direction, and you try every day to continue in this direction. If you have said – I have mentioned this – that someone would travel through the country here to find allies for the overthrow of the government, I ask you in every way: You, the two government groups, have repeatedly rejected a request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. Why? Are you really just talking about spreading any rumors? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Of course!]] Such things are serious accusations. They have remained guilty of any evidence of this and, instead, they face new demands for the introduction of a criminal law, or they suspect a scene to have committed crimes, while, in truth, the moment of danger and the damage to the Republic of Austria go from anywhere else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Up to now, § 248 StGB – which is where MEPs Terezija Stoisits is completely right – was a section with which chiefly cabaretists had to beat around. There were such cases. A case is pending. I find it sad and embarrassing if someone, for example, proposes another text of the German anthem, sings and therefore has to stand before the judge. If it is true that any degrading actions disturb public peace, order and security, then this is punishable in Austria. It is also sufficient to ensure that peace, order and security are maintained in the field of executives. But this is only and exclusively in the direction of a family criminal right or a really ridiculous criminal law for cabaretists, which is suitable to restrict the freedom of art in Austria, which is already at risk enough. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If it is actually about harming the reputation of the Republic of Austria abroad, I think that is not a case for the criminal courts, that is in my opinion a case of political responsibility. This can, in extreme cases, be a case for the Prohibition Act. As a matter of urgency, I appeal to the whole House here and in particular to the government parties to make some comments, for example, the speech by Dr. Haider to SS-Veterans; Terezija Stoisits has already mentioned this. But there are also recessed incidents that go in the same direction, and there are those who openly show such a attitude. You know, and this is also the subject of parliamentary questions: Flyers – and again and again from the FPÖ from Lower Austria – come: "The blue candle" or letter of readers, in which the European Union is referred to as a community of corruptionists and artists, and in which it also refers to the period from 1945 to 1955 as a "phase of the insecurity of Austria". [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You'll be allowed to say that! That's what you want to forbid?]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Incredible!]] I really ask you if this was the worst time in the history of Austria. Take something together! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It happens again and again. It is not a coincidence for me that it comes from the FPÖ Lower Austria that a motto, a slogan of the SS is used and then the really exposing excuse is made: I didn't know where that came from and what it was. – I assume that in this country with this story, with the millions of victims, someone who is advocating for a leading role in politics has to know. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. It is probably not a coincidence that a Member of this House does not, perhaps without knowing what he is appealing to, take up a slogan of the peace movement, a slogan of the environmental movement, no!, but a motto, a motto of the SS. So I say to you in every way: After the abundance of examples – I suppose it will be even more evident that goes in this direction – according to all that is going on here, it is really high time to defend the beginnings of this Republic, to stop carefully dealing with Austrian history and to make such excuses apply no more. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You're gonna decide, aren't you? Take care of your own stuff! There's enough to do!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Read your group's debates on 8. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Stoisits for his excellent report.]] I'm asking you to consider human consequences here too.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10521	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10542	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Among other things, we are dealing with the International Convention on the Control of Terrorist Bombs today, i.e. attacks. Lockerbie was mentioned. ==References== ==References====External links== Now, twelve years later, the suspected suspects of the trial are being made – twelve years later!, much too late, especially because one now seems to be in the process that not Libya is politically responsible for this attack, but that Iran may be behind this attack. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic! I don't care if violence comes from left or right – violence must never be political action! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Violence must never be that! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In April 1995, two people died in Ebergassing, when they were about to blow a power grid. Two people died. The state of investigation in the course of this attack was announced in such a timely manner by the Minister of the Interior at his time and informed the public in such a timely manner that it was only possible for the possible third culprit to escape the suspected third culprit. Mrs. Fekter mentioned that the "ZiB 1" reported that the right scene is responsible for this bombing. In the "ZiB 2" one then heard nothing of it, and there was no more debt allocation. This suspected culprit could not be made to this day. In the course of the Committee's negotiations, I asked the Minister of Justice what the investigation is all about, as it were, with the progress of these investigations. Today, I am told – today I have received the letter – that the suspicion against Bassam Al-Taher is still true, that he lives in Mexico, that he has, however, demanded free conduct to come to Austria, and that he does not think at all of coming to Austria without approval of this free conduct. Ladies and gentlemen! What the former Minister of the Interior and the current Member of Parliament has done here was really criminalistic stupidity – criminalistic stupidity – or it was intention – which, in turn, brings action into criminal law. Ladies and gentlemen! If a police student had committed this action at that time, he would probably have been discharged from the police service the following day with the consent of any union, any personnel representative and probably also with the consent of his parents. The Minister of the Interior can behave in this way unpunished – both politically and criminally unpunishedly. Ladies and gentlemen! In a later search of the house, which was sought by the Criminal Department in Lower Austria, thought to be members of this scene as follows – please read in the "profile": It's funny after you guys! You're having it for us, and your minister, your boss, is donating for us. – These statements must be heard, please, by the intervening and intervening police. There you can, please don't go with right things! Mrs Petrovic! Again: Violence, whether left or right, must be rejected as a means of political action. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: And is forbidden!]] And you must not be blind on one eye, but you must have both eyes wide open. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, Austria is exemplary. Austria is one of the nine out of 15 countries within the EU that have signed. Austria, however, is the first state to ratify this agreement – the first state to be the EU’s member. One of my previous speakers has already mentioned that this agreement will not enter into force until at least 22 countries have signed and ratified this agreement. We sign today. Nevertheless, we must not be relieved to call on the international community of states to ratify the agreement as soon as possible and to do so in the same way as Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10592	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10613	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To § 248 StGB, dignification of the state and its symbols, the discussion has been conducted in a sufficient manner. We all – and I emphasize: all of us!, also the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition – are promised to the Austrian federal constitution, we all have to behave legally. It has already been said enough. By the way, after 30 years of socialism in Austria, there is enough work to do, and you did well to do ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to do it like the government and to work constructively. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The first 100 days of the new government have proved it: The government programme is a working paper that is implemented quickly and efficiently, despite all attempts at interference from the nearer and the wider environment. Especially in the judicial area, the first 100 days of government work have carried out the implementation of essential projects. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am thinking, for example, of the reform of the executive system, I am thinking of the HGB-Novelle – Tag Accounting –, I am thinking of the Fund for Process Monitoring of Minor Victims of Violent Crimes, of Measures to Speed Procedure and of the Krida Reform. The rule of law serves to safeguard and develop the freedom of individuals, including the freedom to actively integrate themselves into economic life. From this point of view too, the Krida reform is an important step. Ladies and gentlemen! The legal objective of the Krida reform – it has already been set out – is to consider in the future, as only slightly negligent, those economically wronged actions, which in economic life can also be underly active in the business life, and to make them punishable. The crime of the negligent Krida is replaced by the narrow determination of the grossly negligent Krida. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the introduction of economic risk in the lower area of criminality is decriminalized. Mr Dr. Ofner and Mrs. Dr. Fekter have already mentioned this. In the market economy, it is necessary to promote the willingness to take economic risk. On the other hand, genuine mismanagement, especially harmful behaviour, must be ponalized. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the enforcement of creditor interests is not necessarily possible with criminal convictions, unless from the point of view of prevention. § 159 StGB concerns economic operators, which, according to my definition, includes the so-called New Self-employed, who have more or less voluntarily changed from the employee relationship to self-employment. In the future, crime will not be any misconduct that leads to the inability to pay or to the impairment of creditors' interests, but only grossly negligent behaviours that are fundamentally criminal. And what is critical is listed in paragraph 5 taxatatively. Of course, the effects of the new provisions on decriminalisation of the simple negligent Krida will be closely monitored. Ladies and gentlemen! Justice will have to check in the future whether gross negligence exists. Justice will also have to examine whether actions are actually critical and whether, in practice, paragraphs 4 and 5 of paragraph 5 are actually restricted to the circle of actors. In any event, expert opinions should not be on the agenda or necessarily on the cost economy. In practice, the question of whether the jurisdiction of the district courts can contribute to an increase in efficiency in the sense of a procedural acceleration or a reduction in procedures and thus costs will be assessed. District jurisdiction alone does not, of course, mean decriminalisation. Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: The Krida reform is an important step in favour of Austria's economic location. I would therefore ask you to focus your vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10692	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10713	Mr President. Minister! In connection with the comments made by Mr Stoisits, the clarification of the fact that the portrait of the Austrofascist and dictator Dolfuss still depends on the glorification in the ÖVP Parliamentary Club is urgently necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to ask Mr Klubobmann Khol if he can explain to the Austrians what he wants to express with this gesture of glorification of the Austrofascist and dictator Dolphin. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Fink.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Like Gusenbauer Stalin glorified!]] I can already imagine, colleague, that you do not agree. I also ask you: What do you personally have with the glorification of the Austrofascist Dollfuß on the hat? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] High house! I would now like to say a few words about the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Canada on extradition, which is here today for decision-making. Under this Treaty, the Contracting Parties undertake to extradite on a new basis persons whose extradition is sought for the purpose of prosecution or enforcement of a prison sentence or of any other measure restricting the freedom of action for a criminal offence capable of extradition. I In relation to Canada, extradition is currently taking place on the basis of the 1967 extradition agreement. This agreement no longer meets the requirements of modern extradition, which have resulted in the increase in international travel and the related increase in bilateral contacts between Austria and Canada in the area of criminal law. It is therefore necessary to simplify and facilitate extradition between the two countries. The drafting of this Treaty was a relatively lengthy matter. There were two rounds of negotiations in December 1991 in Vienna and in September 1992 in Ottawa. A diplomatic agreement was reached on the draft extradition contract. As a result, its signature has delayed due to the need for prior revision of the Canadian extradition law. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== This Treaty contains a number of rules which will simplify extradition in relation to both countries, such as the admissibility of the direct movement of the authorities between the ministries of justice, extradition also due to fiscal criminal acts, restriction of the grounds for refusal of the limitation to the right of the requesting State, admissibility of the simplified extradition in the event of the consent of the person concerned and the absence of special certification requirements and other more. Ladies and gentlemen! The Treaty serves to improve and speed up the enforcement of law, but is also in the interest of the supplier whose culpable debt in Austria is examined in a fair procedure. It is therefore also in the interest of the subcontractor that the extradition procedure is carried out quickly, and I have already mentioned the admissibility of the simplified extradition in the event of the consent of the person concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! I can therefore announce, on behalf of my group, the approval of this Treaty.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10768	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10789	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that the Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats already called for the abolition of the situation of the negligent Krida in its present version in the previous legislative period. In this respect, the recast of § 159 StGB, titled "gross negligent impairment of creditor interests", is to be appreciated positively and is therefore also supported by the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group. We hear again and again that in our economic system it is simply such that the introduction of economic risks is necessary, but from our point of view, of course, in compliance with a certain standard of responsibility and care. Therefore, from our point of view, it is not justified that this entrepreneurial behaviour remains criminalised, as it has been so far. The willingness to face economic risk and profit-making is also a part of the market economy from our point of view, and we are now living in a market economy. But, ladies and gentlemen, we want a social market economy, a market economy, where there is no respect for it. That is why it is true that the new case-law "seriously negligent impairment of creditor interests" is still very ponished and is ultimately incorporated into the law in a taxative list of relevant grossly negligent behaviours. Thus, as has already been said, it is not intended to criminalise any misbehavior that has subsequently led to inability to pay or to the impairment of creditors' interests. Only specific practices, which are fundamentally critical, should be criminalised. I hope that this recast has succeeded in continuing to punish genuinely reckless, grossly negligent behaviour, but on the other hand, innovative entrepreneurs who – we say salopp – have really had a bad time protecting them from a judicial punishment. Ladies and gentlemen, the other adverse consequences of civil law are, in any case, not spared these companies. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like the Federal Government to take the same approach on other issues, which are also important to the large majority of the population, if not even more important, as it did at the moment. I would also like to see even small people so often quoted by the right half of the empire, where they are not entrepreneurs, but workers and those who have been affected by them, thought about whether decriminalisation of actions with low debt would be possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10832	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10854	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to lose a few words on Krida, because it is a law that is very important economically and which is also welcomed by the Austrian economy. The situation has been virtually unraveled – I would say – and it has been adapted to modern needs, and there is no longer the general clause in this case, there is no longer the crime variant of excessive credit, and there is no longer the concept of bankruptcy as a criminal offence. In the course of the discussions, many variants were discussed and finally agreed on this common positive minimum variant. I believe that this law will fulfill its purpose, that creditors' interests are also safeguarded, that the creditors will continue to be able to perceive the personal liability, the liability that the economy needs if there is personal indebtedness, and I believe in total that this law should have deserved to receive the consent of the entire House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10886	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e10913	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What the accompanying whirlwind has already pointed out: The honor of the Members of this House is obviously not just a fidelity today. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Peter, we didn't rattle!]] It is not a small matter when Members are sitting here, whose honor is loyal, and when a minister of justice is obviously obliged to act on the ground of the rule of law in the case of the relevant public statements in his honor, in such a way that he is no longer able to act like a legal body of that State. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Fidelity and honor are nothing bad!]] I expect from Members of this House that they are not bound by Hitler words on runendolchen but by the laws of this Republic, democracy, civil rights, human rights and the principles of liberality. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But you have an excuse, and Mr Klubobmann Khol also has an apologies: the head of freedom in Lower Austria has unwittingly expressed all of this. "Unconscious" is the latest excuse if already quoted from the runendolch away at political events. Unconscious! Ladies and gentlemen! This may be unconscious in the Freedom Party. In the Austrian People's Party, however, the highest state of unconsciousness has already been reached. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] How do you imagine asking Mr. Dr. Khol of Brussels to abolish sanctions if you know that Austria is properly observed and closely monitored, and you are not even able to prevent your coalition partner from forming party days with Hitler quotations: from the ordinary employment policy to the glorification of the Waffen-SS. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That is not the case, the bowl has rejected the abolition of sanctions!]] And then you get up and say that the European Union should withdraw its sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen! This is such an absence of political realism. How can you believe that anyone in Brussels, in Paris, in Lisbon, in London today can say: Stop the sanctions! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You make sure it doesn't happen!]] This government has proved to be harmless and integrable! We can maintain bilateral contacts as before! A Portuguese Foreign Minister, a Belgian Prime Minister does not know what will happen next if you are no longer able to dissociate yourself from Hitler's citations and also to demand personal consequences. If you just say that this has just happened unconsciously, then the European Union will have no alternative but to extend these sanctions on the basis of the 14 – even if we, some of us, are looking for a way out together. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do you have against fidelity, Mr. Pilz?]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! I have nothing against fidelity, but I have everything against "true to the Waffen-SS", the "Volksgemeinschaft", the "ordinary employment policy", and I have everything against distancelessness towards National Socialism! Since, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, I do not have the slightest understanding for your loyalty, and every decent person in Austria and in the European Union will not have the slightest understanding of your loyalty with me. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There was no talk about it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There was no talk about National Socialism, only you spoke of it!]] We will continue to try to find a decent Austrian way out of European isolation. We will continue to try to continue the European dialogue. We will continue to try to convince the reasonable among you that the doors that the European Union opens must finally be accepted and finally passed through. But you want the sanctions! You want to continue provoking. They use every party's day to heat the mood outside of Austria in the EU. You're living on the sanctions. They have nothing to offer politically except sanctions. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Each provocation from your side is an attempt to preserve the sanctions in life. These are not sanctions of the 14, which have long been sanctions of the 15. One beggars – and 14 hangs. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You are interested that they remain upright! Get away from it!]] These are the sanctions of the European Union. Stop begging for sanctions! Finally, start to do something internally political, to work on the problems of this Republic, and finally distance yourself from your political friends who do nothing but maximize the damage to this Republic! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11073	I am now interrupting the negotiations on this item on the agenda so that we can start dealing with the urgent question at 3 p.m. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer and comrades to the Federal Minister for Public Performance and Sport on the massive loads of small and medium-sized incomes from 1. ==References====External links== June 2000 (867/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11104	We are now approaching the urgent question 867/J. Before I go into the treatment, I would like to make the following statement: On the occasion of the announcement of the urgent request before the entry into the agenda of today's meeting, there have been statements of speech on business matters dealing with business regulations, in particular with the admissibility of all or individual questions relating to the urgent request. It has also been suggested a short presidential meeting to discuss these issues. This presidential meeting did not result in a uniform assessment of the problems raised or of all the problems raised, so that at the end of the presidential conference, but with the agreement of all four political groups, I proposed the following procedure: I will ask Mrs Vice-Chancellor, in particular, to answer questions 4, 6 and 8 of the urgent question, and leave it to her whether you have an opinion on the remaining questions under § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, it has been agreed that, in view of the fundamental nature of the problems raised, each of the four political groups will be allowed to comment on the problems discussed in a statement on the business treatment of 5 minutes prior to the urgent request. In this sense, I will first give Mr Kostelka the President-in-Office of the Council, then Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler, then Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol and finally Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen give the floor and then call on the reasons for the urgent question. As the urgent question has been raised to all Members, a reading by a writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11256	In accordance with the agreed procedure, I now give the President-in-Office of the club Dr Kostelka the floor for a speech by the speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11277	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Debates of the Rules of Procedure before calling for a urgent question are extremely rare. And that is right. As a general rule, these Rules of Procedure also have a special reason. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't have to report either!]] In today's context, there are two approaches to explanation: the anti-control of this government and the discomfort of the questions we have raised in the urgent question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you laugh like that, Mr Khol, Mr Westenthaler, then it is clear that this laughter is more than artificial, because you have tried to apply business rules in order not to have to answer the question in this way. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Haha!]] Such an approach is without an example. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! How anti-control You are and how much you fear the answer to this question, this is already evidenced by your argumentation. All the ladies and gentlemen in this House have heard Mr Khol's statement on why this request is not acceptable. He explained that it was government acts which were not subject to parliamentary control. It is only in political zeal that Mr Khol has unfortunately overlooked the fact that we changed the Rules of Procedure in 1975. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Go!]] In 1975, § 90 of the Rules of Procedure was explicitly supplemented by the words: "This right of question" – that is, this House – "is particularly subject to acts of government..." – So far to the anti-control of this government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who use such arguments demask themselves. Secondly, there should not be any question of futures – according to the arguments of colleagues Khol and Westenthal. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Westenthaler doesn't know that!]] I quote from Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure: "The management of the Federal Government" can and must be "checked" from this House. And "all objects of execution" can be the subject of the survey. And because that is not enough, the constitutional fathers have added: "and all relevant information" can be required. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Well noticed: clumsy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Control hostility and fear of answering these questions are all the reasons for your behaviour. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You want to reduce this House to an applause opposition machine, and you confuse the National Council with the Court of Auditors, which is the institution of this House and has only a verifiable control function. But we are the legislators, and we have the Federal Government in all its contexts to examine and control, including with regard to future things. Your claim for an extension of the control right may still be voted so loud, in reality you do not want any control at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One last comment: In this context, Mr Khol himself referred to a question which had been a precedent. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to read to you the question 5 of the question put by Mr Khol: "What legal changes and structural measures does the Austrian capital market need to come at European level?" – This is basically no other kind of question than what we asked them: "How will this continue in the future?" Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grossruck: That was more intelligent!]] Be aware of this: You have to answer the question to the Austrians whether there is a stress stop or not. If the answer does not take place here and today, this announced load stop has only been one: a corresponding PR, an advertising gag. That is what we are used to by the Federal Government, and that is what we are used to by the Group of the Party of European Socialists. It is true, that is, the broken word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11434	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11455	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! I have not taken a record of the Rules of Procedure from which I read, because I am quite honest with you that the urgent question you have tabled today is really not to be overlooked in absurdity and insanity. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That would be difficult!]] No, more. This urgent question you have raised today is an insult to the Rules of Procedure of this House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] After the last time you failed in the emergency, I thought it was hardly possible to increase it. I am taught with this urgent request of a better person today: It is possible to increase. It is so uniquely absurd that you really have to break it on your tongue. Imagine: The SPÖ is seriously making a urgent request for a future voting behaviour of a minister who is not present at all and for whom the Minister is not yet responsible, but who, above all, does not exist. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: (in the direction of SPÖ) Who do not exist!]] They ask for a VAT increase of 10 to 20 percent. There's no such thing as that! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Read!]] They ask for 13th and 14th. A monthly tax rate of 6 per cent is now applied. You did this a few years ago, not us. There's no such thing as that. You are asking for increases in fees, you are talking about suspending the tax reform and the family package, you are talking about cuts on pensioners who did not exist earlier, are not now available and will not exist in the future. That is, your urgent request is really a master achievement of parliamentary socialism. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] After the Fellner-Dringual from the last time from the "NEWS" galaxy building, which always likes to fry such nonsense, now comes the virtual urgent that there is no such thing at all. That's really embarrassing what you've delivered here today and what you're going to deliver. There's no such thing as that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, this urgent request also creates something interesting, and that's why you have to stop. Only that you've been so approved creates a prejudice. From today's day on, you can ask questions, whether urgent or not, to any minister, on any subject, cross and cross the vegetable garden. For example, one could ask some minister who just came to a halt, perhaps the Minister of Social Affairs or someone else, whether the President of the Socialist Party of Austria has informed Parliament inaccurately and untruely. You could put the urgent one. The difference to today's urgent is only that it would not be virtual, but that one truth is based on it. A quote from the National Council meeting, dated 22 May, was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities in the Official Journal of the European Mid-term call "Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much to get You're a party leader? Over 100 000 S?" – It meant the salary. – Answer Gusenbauer: "Nothing!" "Nothing!" - So he said he didn't get anything. In an article of the new edition of the "Format" we read: Gusenbauer also receives debt from the Socialist Party of Austria in addition to his Members' holding – at 350 million Schilling! – paid 70,000 s more. [[Oh, call to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: I read something else!]] 70,000 s paid for it! But that's not enough. The story is not over yet. There are two Party Secretarys, Kuntzl and Bures, who in addition to their 100 000 S-Gage as a Member – you hear and marvel! – are paid 50 000 s each from the party's bank. This means 170 000 S per month for the leading troika of the SPÖ – makes more than 2 million schilling in the year. This is not the burden stop for your party and for the small members, that you should write behind your ears, Mr. Gusenbauer! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol.]] They've been in the cash register for a long time. You tell Parliament the untruth, you inform it wrong and then you criticize burdens that are not at all – contrary to your burdens. That's interesting. [[Abg. May. Muttonen: Rules of Procedure!]] I could also go further and in the future put a urgent question to the Minister of Defence, for example, on the question: How harmful are Gusenbauer's travel abroad? I could do this! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Ask him!]] That's where we could list the entire catalogue. But it is better not to ask the Minister of Defense, but your party chairman in Styria, Mr. Schachner-Blazizek, for he has advised you to stay at home – and that is the right thing too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has a hard time, I understand. After the Fiasco in their party banks, after the personal fiasco, after the terrible encounter at the Viktor Adler market before numbered 150 union officials and an angry people, after such front pages – "Swallow of the SPÖ" – it is of course difficult to find themselves in the opposition role. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: An angry people?]] [[The speaker holds an issue of the "profile" to the height]] But I have never experienced a party that answers from such a defensive not with an offensive, but again with a defensive, as you do today with this urgent request. They give us today the opportunity to say what is actually a matter, to say how we stand for the small people in Austria. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Only one thing must not be: that you have your...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11634	Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11650	... to carry out party-political sham caps at the expense of Austrian parliamentarism. That's not what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11680	Next word: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11715	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Chancellor! In one I must give justice to Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka – in one! –: It is rare that there are urgent debates on the Rules of Procedure, because, Mr Kostelka, even the stupidest Eskimo on the sleigh can do nothing wrong in such a urgent case! To put such a urgent matter is really a bit simple, there can be no problems at all! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is first xenophob and second insult!]] But in the course of time, I have to say, one will also be modest as a executive clubman. After all, you've been through with 30 percent of your questions. This corresponds to about the percentage that a positive opinion research institute of your party still gives you as a share of the Austrian voters – and you can be satisfied, Mr Kostelka. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I've got to say, With the once sharpest weapon of the opposition, the urgent request – everything trembles, everything comes, tension in the high house! – today ten questions come to two and a half pages on the grounds: Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, You do something that is not certain that it will be done at all and that you are not responsible for? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] So, Mr Gusenbauer, I would like to thank the clubman for being sent to the race with such questions. [[Renewal cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I broke my head on it and thought there must be a secret reason for this abominable behavior. There must be some diaphragm behind it if you ask a person ten questions he is not responsible for, so they are actually on the level of propaganda. I thought there had to be something there. But then I came up with it! Fortem fortuna adiuvat, happiness has – for a long time – only the virtuous. – Mr Kostelka, you are not lucky with the urgent ones. The first urgent thing you put in this legislative period was the emergency to Mrs. Sickl, who had to present the divorced minister Hostasch. Mrs. Sickl was in office for just three days, Mrs. Hostasch for many years. The latter asked for urgent answers from her successor three days after taking over the office to 64 questions that would probably have been better able and in no way urgent to give her herself. That was a real downfall in the gottay. But to what happened today, I really have to say... – I don't know. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of SPÖ) That is the downfall!]] In any case, it would be a classic request to the entire Federal Government, represented by the Federal Chancellor. I understand now that you wanted to avoid a confrontation between Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Bundeskanzler. I understand very well, because this is always at the expense of Mr Gusenbauer. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] In addition, it would have been obvious to ask all these tax questions Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance. You have already tried that, but this does not stop Mr Edlinger, who is always close to the heart attack. I understand you didn't want that. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: A special level isn't that! Really not!]] Mr Kostelka, I must also congratulate you on another point: You won't have it any easier with Mrs. Vice chancellor. This match will not win either Mr. Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Who are you trying it with next time? – I can only say I close with Faust: "Whoever strives honestly, we will redeem it."
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11826	Next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Professor Van der Bellen. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e11847	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol, in particular! Only for introduction: I ask you to reconsider this sentence with the "most stupid Eskimo". Similar jokes from the everyday language are known to me by black Africans, Burgenlanders or – from the Swiss point of view – the Austrians. [[Na-geh-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's the khol!]] - I don't think that's funny. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The opinions of Mr Westenthaler and Mr Khol actually went down, which Mr Khol and, as a result, Mr Westenthaler have today, as always. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, I am!]] Mr Khol has told us that the President determines what is acceptable and what is not permitted. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's doing that all the time!]] – No, this is a censorship attempt, Mr Khol, and you should not repeat that. I am grateful that there has been this presidency today. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're censoring now! Didn't you notice that you're censoring now?]] I strongly recommend that you read the comments of Mr Zögernitz, the head of the ÖVP, to § 91 of the Rules of Procedure, in which it is clearly stated that there is no right of the President to exercise censorship in any way and to decide on what is permissible and what is not permitted. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you remember Wabl? "Minister of War"! Hasn't been approved!]] – I don’t remember anything, I comply with the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I can imagine that!]] One urgent question is nothing else – Mr colleague, if you perhaps read it on occasion; I also had to read it, because I do not know it externally, I like to admit it – as a written request, which is also declared urgent. The rules applicable to the written question, in which the President cannot say: That's stupid – you can't ask that! That's good – you can ask! This is particularly exciting – please ask again! [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I can't! But that's exactly what you've tried today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I must add that this has nothing to do with the presidency of President Fischer, whom I fully trust in in these matters, but that is a fundamental question and it concerns every President, no matter what his name is. You tried that, Dr. Khol, today. What irritates me a little bit and you haven't explained today. If, as you have said, the question is as ridiculous and as ridiculous as it is and does not have any substantive authority – I do not wish to comment on it at all, you have said so – the question arises: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you take this seriously?]] Why not just take this with serenity and answer in the appropriate form instead of trying to suffocate or suffocate a urgent request from the Social Democrats in the germ? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because you can't miss such a chance!]] This is not a good parliamentaryism, Mr Khol. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not repeat in detail what the Rules of Procedure in § 91, § 90 and so on refer to them. In my opinion, most of the questions are clearly acceptable. Questions 4, 6 and 8 concern the section of the Minister's office, which has also been established in the Presidency. The other questions can be disputed, but as we all know, the Minister for Sport and so on is Vice-Chancellor, and as such she has a very different weight than any other Minister. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right!]] Similar questions could be asked to the Federal Chancellor, as none of us would have said that this is unacceptable – because not his place of business. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Professor! From today on, you can ask all the questions!]] The Vice-Chancellor must be allowed to do so, in particular because it is not quite as Mr Westenthaler has said, but that is a matter of contentious debate. They say: It's all stupid, no human being thinks of it, everything in error – "virtual" you said – and so on. However, there are enough newspaper reports on what is being brewed in the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't believe everything in the paper!]] – I don't think all that's in the paper, but you can't argue about the fact that it's there and it's probably from researching journalists. That is why we can ask the questions. What Mrs. Vice-Chancellor then answers is another story – I am already excited about these answers. Apart from that, it was quite exciting in the Presidency to hear whether it was permissible to consult voting in the Council of Ministers. No one other than Mr Haider has already done this, we have experienced. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Future!]] - Ex post! He asked for the voting behaviour ex post. If this is a matter of execution, you cannot explain to me why the voting behaviour ex ante is not a matter of execution. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Because it has not yet been completed!]] – Paragraph 90 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Khol, Comment: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Because there's no such thing!]] Zägernitz!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e12118	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e12133	In any case, Mr President, I would like to ask you, Mr Khol, whether it is a matter of urgency or not. And I think this censor's trial is really bad today.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e12163	This is the end of this joint short-term debate. I note once again that the urgent request was distributed in writing and therefore a reading by a writer is not necessary. I have the right to speak to honourable Member Dr. Mr Gusenbauer as the first questioner to justify the request. Speech time: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e12200	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If it had required proof of the urgency of this request, the two government parties had just delivered it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It will probably still be allowed to ask the Austrian Parliament questions that may be unpleasant to the government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They don't exist!]] I say 'of course' because, if Mrs Vice-Chancellor gives clear answers today and the Group of the Party of European Socialists shares our motion for a resolution, which we shall bring in, all the ambiguities have been eliminated. And you have the opportunity to do this today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What has happened in the last few weeks is the attempt at a tactic of fog. The Freedom Party has come up with the statement that there will only be "adjustments" in the 2000 budget – only "adjustments"! The "reality" of this policy and these statements is shown by the fact that we have been since 1. June is in the situation that the disease becomes more expensive, the electricity becomes more expensive, the driving becomes more expensive, housing becomes more expensive, fees are increased and pensions are reduced. That is your understanding of adaptations, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is obvious that a process of change in the Freedom Party is also under way with regard to its own designation of politics. However, this change has not yet completely been reflected in the ads, for the Freedom Party advertised under the heading "Word held: more money for families". – This "more money for families" was decided by the former Federal Government and is with 1. In January of this year, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, Since you've been in the government, there has been no more schilling for the families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You advertise: Payroll tax lowered. - The wage tax was paid on 1st January. On the basis of decisions taken by the old coalition government this year in the House. Since you are in the government, not taxes have been reduced, but taxes have been increased, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You advertise: "Pensions secured." – The truth is: Since you've been in the government, pensions have been reduced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an untruth!]] For this reason, your deputy of honesty would not have to be called "word kept", but "word broken", because that stands for your policy. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler keeps an issue of the "profile" with the title to the height: "The crash of the SPÖ".]] The results of the workers' chamber elections have left nothing to be desired in terms of clarity, because in all the federal states the Freedom Party has received an extremely clear departure, a departure that has been washed and which is the first account of the Austrian workers for your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that nervousness is increasing is noted on a variety of trips, the free politicians are now taking them to Carinthia and the Millstattersee to consult simple party members of their party. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't talk about travelling, that's better!]] However, this consultation procedure should be highly one-sided – a highly one-sided one! . because during the German Chancellor's request, which was quite concrete, he tried to feed the House and the Austrian public with empty formulas, Mrs Vice-Chancellor and Mr Finanzminister have always made clear statements about the future budget course in recent weeks. For example, the Minister of Finance said that if he had missed his profession, he would exclude tax and fees increases from the outset. Mr Prinzhorn, who has great confidence in the Minister for Finance, also meant that the Minister for Finance was at work, but if it was not possible to do otherwise, we would also have to think about revenue increases. And Mrs. Riess-Passer has also stood out until it came to the Ukas from Carinthia and the simple party member Jörg Haider has said twice clearly what he expects from his people in the government. Quote: "My message to the FPÖ: Don't allow a millimeter of loads, don't have a second of a tax increase discussion!" – and this in view of a situation in which, for example, the present edition of the "Small Newspaper": Minister of Finance Grasser threatens with a second savings package. That is the reality of the disintegration of this party, ladies and gentlemen, who do not know where they want to go! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The simple party member Jörg Haider has called for a stop in a Carinthian Nobel Hotel, in the presence of Mrs. Vice chancellor. I can still remember her slightly acidified face in the face of this press conference, and I understand this because she was forced there by simple party member Jörg Haider to say that there should be a stopover. He just passed on the hot potato to her, almost under the motto: "Just tell us what all these structural reforms are to look like, which means that the Maastricht criteria are respected for the budget without any additional burden on the Austrian population!" – This hot potato you have, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The really interesting thing is that the cover-up vocabulary of the Freedom Party has fundamentally changed. In the beginning, "adjustments" were spoken of. Mr Westenthaler presents about glorious achievements which he cannot put on the hat as his spring. And the simple party member Jörg Haider says there should be no more burdens. That is to say, due to the defeats in the Chamber of Labour elections, the FPÖ finally insisted that what you make of the government parties is tax policy for the smaller and medium-sized incomes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We all know very well the government agreement and we know what additional expenditure is included in it, such as the amount of rent for all, the increase in army expenditure, subsidies for agriculture and the reduction of additional labour costs. One can certainly discuss it in detail, but there are additional expenditure or less revenue from the federal government, which will result in a 34 billion schilling in the course of this legislative period alone on the basis of these measures. It now raises the legitimate question of how this can fit together: There are 34 billion schillings less for the budget, but at the same time the Minister of Finance announces that fiscal consolidation will be strengthened and the deficit reduced to 0.5% of GDP, so that there will be even greater savings – and all of this without any additional burden on the Austrian population. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's not credible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unless Mrs. Vice-Chancellor can explain to us today how she is doing this in her department. It has so far made two announcements, namely, that in the course of an administrative reform, 30 000 planning posts will be excluded from the public service. We're interested in: Which posts have you planned for this? What does this mean in terms of budgetary savings for 2001, 2002 and 2003? Secondly, you have announced that you will save 9 000 sites at all, and we are also interested in answering the questions: When will they be saved and where? Do you want to save on the executive and thus on safety? Do you want to save on teachers and thus on education? Where do you want to reduce these 9,000 plan posts? That's the end of the day. Your area of responsibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you have the goodness to explain to us these measures which, by the way, Mr Westenthaler has already intensified? [[Abg. Aumayr: But these questions are not in the urgent!]] He has put the latte even higher to you by saying on television: 9 000 may not go out, we need to reduce 14 000 public planning posts. [[Abg. Aumayr: Did you just think of the questions?]] Where you get these additional 5,000 jobs for Mr Westenthaler, we would still be interested here in the House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, it is about credibility, because to move through the country and act as if it were not... – I understand your excitement, Mr Westenthaler. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell Parliament what you are cashing!]] But I told you this last time, and if you were to quote correctly, you would have said that today. I said I deserve as much as you do. And that's three times for me, you can believe me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This probably also explains why Jörg Haider was in Libya. He was obviously in Libya to get all the sand the FPÖ needs to scatter him to the Austrian population! That was the real reason for the trip! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You could request an investigation committee, Mr. Cot!]] On the one hand, the Ministry of Finance is talking about further tax increases which the Minister of Finance has not excluded, on the other hand he announces a second savings package, and at the same time the Millstättersee has the statement regarding tax stoppage. The question now arises: Who gives the tone in this government? How do you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, finally implement your party observer's requests – for Mr. Haider is still the secret party observer who is issuing the order by Carinthia – which have been confirmed by Mr. Westenthal in the meantime? And how will you present this here in the Austrian Parliament? We now offer you the possibility of a revelation page: Today, as social democrats, we are presenting a motion for a resolution calling for the Federal Government to stop the burden on smaller and medium-sized incomes that your "simple party member" Jörg Haider has proclaimed in Carinthia and to which you and Mr Westenthaler have known. You can afford this revelation page today. Voices If you accept this motion for a resolution, it is clear to the Austrian people that there is no further burden. This step can and must you do if you want to be credible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or you continue the strategy of fairy tale. So far, every fairy tale for the Austrian population has emerged as a fairy tale, e.g. by the increases on the 1st century. June, with which all the promises of Mr Westenthaler and his people were broken and taxes and fees increased – contrary to the ads, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since Mr Klubobmann Khol is thinking about why we did not ask the Federal Chancellor today, I can answer him quite openly: For the last time, the Federal Chancellor has not given any concrete answer to all these questions, that is to say, he keeps himself open as to whether there will be tax and fees increases. On the other hand, Mrs Vice-Chancellor in Carinthia has clearly and clearly declared herself by saying that there will be no further burden on the Austrians. As she has now clearly declared herself, it is also entitled to ask how she will implement this in her area of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, Mr Klubobmann Khol, I say quite frankly to you: You've been making fun 5 minutes today, but what will comfort you little is clear to all of us: Arrogance comes before the case, and you will still experience it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e12447	In response to the questions or to an opinion on the subject, Mrs Vice-Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Vice chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e12469	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, in his speech, said that this urgent question would make me afraid. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: It's unpleasant for you!]] Mr. Deputy Clubobmann Kostelka, I don't want to hurt you, but if you want to scare me – if that's your goal – then you have to try a little more in the future, because this urgent request does not make me afraid. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: He'd have to come from Carinthia!]] However, it gives me the opportunity to make a real flood of false claims and false reports that you have spread from the opposition over the last few weeks and months over the politics of this federal government and which are largely reflected in this urgent question. Secondly, I would like to say that a very strange spirit is behind this urgent one, because the word "stop from loading" alone does not only cause anxiety in your ranks, but it seems to be panicking. It is also an expression of the great fear you have that there is a federal government which, unlike the massive burdens that the Austrians have suffered for years from socialists, now proves that it can also go differently. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (holding a document in height) 1. June!]] That's really what I'm saying. Your fear is that there is a federal government that makes it different and better than you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In view of your speech, Mr. Klubobmann Gusenbauer, you have to look back into the past, of course, because that kind of child-moving you have done here is actually unprecedented in political history. It is therefore worth recapitulating what the budgetary policy of recent years has looked like under socialist rule. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And the ÖVP forget!]] It was marked by the fact that a number of socialist finance ministers, beginning with Vrannitzky, have been working on Lacina, Staribacher and Climate to Edlinger for over 14 years as the collection office of this Republic. – This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It was your government, and it was your socialist finance ministers who increased from 1996 to 1997 in an unprecedented tax package of direct taxes of 65.58 billion schilling. I repeat: 65.68 billion schilling! It was socialist finance ministers who over the same period increased indirect taxes to a level of 28.11 billion schilling. This was not Mr Grasser's Minister of Finance, but Mr Edlinger, the Minister of Finance, who did so, Mr Gusenbauer. So please show him these headlines. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Incorrect! I wasn't a Minister of Finance at the time, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler keeps an issue of the "profile" with the headline "The crash of the SPÖ" in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer in height.]] Here is the total: In two years alone, Mr Edlinger, you have raised taxes of 93.7 billion schilling. In the same move, you have made cuts in the family and social sectors, to the extent of 14.8 billion Schilling – that was your party, the Socialist Party, these were socialist finance ministers and socialist German Chancellors – which has resulted in a total of 108.5 billion schillings in two years alone. You've obviously forgotten that. That's why it's important that we remind you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much was that? Incredible!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: I think that was more!]] It is important that we remind you of what has been the maximum of your policy over the last 30 years in which you have held responsibility for the Ministry of Finance in this Republic: You have increased the wage and income tax, you have increased corporate tax, you have increased the capital income tax, you have increased tobacco tax, you have increased the turnover tax, you have increased the insurance tax. You have increased fees and charges during the same period: only the recipe fee three times, there was a threefold increase in the recipe fee! Furthermore, the maximum contribution limit on social security, the standard consumption levy, the energy levy on electricity and gas and the charges on stamps were increased. In the same period of time when you have made these increases and loads, you have reduced the amount of the benefit, as far as the duration of the leave period and the amount is concerned. You reduced the care allowance. They reduced the allowance for the disabled. [[Members Edlinger and Dr. Gusenbauer: But also introduced!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Against your voices!]] They have shortened the premiums for building savings. They have reduced the general amount of amortization. They have shortened the deductibility of special expenditure, the tax freedom of overtime, holiday and Christmas money. They have removed the birth grant and the free movement of students at all. [[Abg. May. Schlögl: Were we alone, Mrs. Vice chancellor?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler holds the last edition of the "profile" up again.]] I know you don't like to hear all this. They also invented the motorway vignette. The outcome of your policy, Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger, was the following: When you handed over the budget, 109 billion schilling missed in this budget. This is the result of your policy! This is the legacy of 30 years of socialist finance ministers! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schlögl: Were we alone? Wasn't there a government partner, too?- Oh, my God!]] A government that has left behind a debt mountain of 1,650 billion Schilling public debt! That's unimaginable, but true. This means that over the last 30 years, socialist finance ministers have made 150 million schillings per day for this Republic and its citizens. The result of 30 years of socialist government in this country is that the rich have become richer and poorer and poorer. This is a fact, and you can also calculate it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer keeps an issue of the "Small Newspaper" up to date, which bears the title: "Grasser threatens with a second savings package".]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Saving package or load stop? Who's right: you or grass?]] This is the heritage, Mr Gusenbauer, which you left behind not only this Federal Government, but above all the Austrians – an inheritance that made Austria the final light of 15 Member States in the European Union. This is your, exclusively your responsibility, and you can't escape this responsibility through so many more distraction maneuvers. This is your disastrous balance after 30 years of government activity. And that's also the reason why you went on 3rd. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That you get out of this massive loss of trust that you lost on 3rd. This urgent request has also been demonstrated by the fact that until today the right conclusions have not been reached. If I follow the argument of your remarks, Mr Gusenbauer, and the argumentation of your urgent question, I hear that your proposal is: no savings, no structural reforms, no reduction in expensive and bloated equipment, no privatisation and no social justice. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's not true!]] That means, at the same time, in reverse, that the recipe you propose is that which you have always acted upon, and it is: Increase taxes and make debts. – I have to tell you: This is not the policy of this federal government! This is not the way we want to go, because this is the way that Austria has led to the budget chaos that you have failed us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Load stop or savings package?]] Mr Gusenbauer! We have already proved that things are different. The 2000 budget, which the Minister of Finance has presented and which has been decided by this House, is already a burden stop – I am going to put it to you at the same time – because there is a clear burden on citizens in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (newly keeping a document in height) Pure load package!]] It was this federal government that made it possible to finance the wage tax reform and the family package, which ultimately led to the fact that today in this country, for example, a single parent with a monthly gross income of 18 000 S and a child receives an annual discharge of 9 239 S and a single parent with two children is financed by this government, by these finance ministers, a annual relief of 14 742 S. [[Abg. Edlinger: The tax reform you voted against!]] [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You voted against it!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That was enforced against the FPÖ! Persecuted against the FPÖ!]] This means that a household with two children and a household income of 20 000 S per month will receive a discharge of 13 919 S. [[Abg. Edellinger: Thanks to the social democratic financial policy! Very right! Of course! But you voted against it!]] You can still complain so much. This was not your financial policy, Mr Edlinger, because your financial policy has left a deficit of 109 billion schilling in this Republic. With your financial policy, this would not have been financial! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These examples could still be continued by no number. That means that in truth every family in this country, every Single parent in this country can expect a clear discharge that this Federal Government has guaranteed and financed. In addition, we have ensured that the budget presented by the new finance minister shows the lowest net deficit since 1982. And this has a lot to do with social responsibility, because making debt is the most unsocial policy you can do in a country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why the aim of this Federal Government is to reduce this debt mountain that you have left us with a comprehensive privatisation programme and thus contribute to a massive discharge of citizens, because only the interest burden on the debt you have incurred is 100 billion schilling a year. This is a dimension that you need to justify once, in view of which you need to explain how that is possible. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Explain the load stop to us!]] I would also have liked to hear from you, Mr Gusenbauer, what you have proposals for debt reduction. There was nothing to hear about that so far. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not an idea!]] We have embarked on a comprehensive administrative and task reform, we are pursuing the vision of a modern state, and then we will set up our budget strategy. [[Continued calls at the SPÖ:Where?- Oh, my God!]] That is, slim state, low taxes and high employment! [[Deputies Dr. Gusenbauer and Dr. Kostelka:Where? Where? Where?]] – This is the provision under which this Federal Government acts. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Deputies Dr. Gusenbauer and Dr. Kostelka: Where, when? Where, when? Where, when?]] If you make the effort to read the government programme of this federal government and not falsify it, but actually to repeat it, you know very well what it is and what the task reform we have done. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: We know that! Tell us where! Police?]] Also, the reduction of your posts by non-retiring is something I do not really understand your excitement, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I'm just interested in where!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: And when!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where?]] The same is true of the pact that your party, which your Minister of Finance has presented in the coalition negotiations with the ÖVP. That is exactly the same number, 9 000 in it. That's what I'm asking: How did you expect that? How did you get rid of 9 000 sites? – This only shows that this is, of course, possible, and we will, of course, also do so because, unlike you, we will prove that the state saves itself instead of burdening the citizens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: When and where? Answer me!]] Before answering the questions you have asked, I would like to make a few comments: The question of a possible veto by me in the Council of Ministers does not at all arise, because, of course, this Federal Government will jointly make a reasonable budgetary policy. The Minister of Finance and I will be in the leading position in these negotiations, and we will jointly present a programme so that the question of a veto that I have to address will not be raised at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I now come in detail to answer your questions. I will answer in detail the questions raised by the President of the National Council, but I will, of course, also answer the other questions you have asked, because they cannot be left in the room. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Wonderful!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Excellent!]] In question 4, which has stated: "Will you, through your veto in the Council of Ministers, prevent the discretion expenditure..." and so on "...be shortened?" With the creation of the budget of the year 2000, a so-called top-down approach was applied, which gives the individual department a high level of design within a given budget balance. This process has proved successful in the creation of the 2000 budget and will therefore continue to be applied in the future. It is therefore up to the individual departments to make decisions on the donation of each expenditure within the framework of the budget resources available to them. This, of course, also relates to the field of support. On Question 6 I am well-known to assume that the pension reform package decided recently in the Council of Ministers does not provide for any reduction in any kind of pensioners in that country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Since there have been no cuts in the pension area so far, of course there will also be no "further cuts". On the contrary: The pension reform, presented by this Federal Government, aims to secure existing pensions, but also to ensure that the younger generations who are now in the acquisition process also have the guarantee that they will benefit from a pension. That is the objective of our pension reform. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's what we've ensured. We have also ensured: the guarantee of the value of pensions by fixed amounts, which particularly favour the pensioners of small pensions, the charging of retirement and child training periods for women as pensionable periods, and the guarantee that those who have worked for a long time, that is, those who have contributed for a long time, can go to retirement early without any deductions. On the last point – and this is an important point; this concerns something that would be good for you in the 30 years in which you were in the government –: We have made sure that the special pension privileges in the Chamber of Labour finally belong to the past. That would have been the social policy that we also expected from you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Question 8 The aim of a full cost calculation for public services is to make clear what the individual products and services cost. This transparency will make it possible, as planned, to introduce a resource-specific controlling and to improve the strategic management of public services. The question of the amount of fees is not necessarily related to that. This is mainly because the tax does not make a significant contribution to the financing of public services by citizens. I would now also like to comment on the other questions you have raised, and I would add that these are actually less questions than precepts. If I look at the wording of these questions, I ask you: Where has any representative of the Federal Government ever said that VAT should be increased from 10 to 20 percent? – This is a free invention, that is based on nothing and has never been claimed in any statement by any member of the government! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Absolutely nobody!]] It's not our intention either. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'm just wondering what you're thinking of, that's 13th and 14th. The Commission has already decided to increase the amount of tax on monthly incomes. This has not only never been announced by this Federal Government, but it has, on the contrary, repeatedly made it clear that this will not be the case. And no matter how often you say it, it does not get any more true, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The same applies to all other claims made by you, starting from further increases in fees up to reductions in performance in the health sector. We did the exact opposite. We save on the administrative costs of the social security companies that have been faced with the difficulties. That's what it's all about! When we took up this government, you left out health insurance funds that were de facto in the credit with billions of deficits. That is also the truth, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (holding a document in height) 1. June, higher fees!]] Just as little has any member of this federal government ever suggested that the tax reform 2000 and the family package should be suspended – quite the contrary! We have ensured through the 2000 budget – and we will continue to do so – that this family and wage tax reform is also eligible for funding and will lead to a clear discharge. [[Abg. Gaál: Taxation!]] It can't be a talk about it, so I come to questions 9 and 10 of your urgent question, that there is a burden on small and medium-sized incomes, because we are not continuing your policy. That was your policy, Mr Gusenbauer! We have ensured a clear discharge in this area. I have shown this to you today, and so it will be in the future. Even so many horror reports from your side, as well as so many precepts and so many attempts to frighten the population of our country by the wrong claims you make over and over again will not be able to change that!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13184	We are now going into the debate. I would like to draw attention to this: Each group has a speaking time of 25 minutes, no speaker individually more than 10 minutes. I have two wishes for actual corrections. – Mr Westenthaler, please. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13215	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer has accused me of misusing the parliamentary protocol on his case. – That’s wrong! I just quoted! I quote from the minutes of the 17th century. Meeting of 22. Mr Gusenbauer: " – Answer Gusenbauer: [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell us what you deserve!]] "As much as you do! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much do you get as party chairman? Over 100,000 S?]] " – Answer Gusenbauer: "Nothing! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Nothing?- Oh, my God!]] " – Quote. The article in the recent issue of the magazine "Format", in which you yourself admit that you are in addition to your representative content of the party 70 890 S. I disagree with your second accusation that you deserve as much as I do. I don't get any schilling from the party. They have therefore said the untruth and at the same time misinformed Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13302	Mr Gusenbauer spoke on a personal reply. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13335	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler cannot leave it! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Excuse me!]] All clubmen get the same salary after the salary pyramid, so I get the same salary as Mr. Khol and Mr. Westenthaler – and no more schilling. That's the truth. And whoever pays for this is another matter. You, Mr Westenthaler, get exactly the same reference as Khol and Van der Bellen and I from Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, I don't get anything from the party!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't get anything from the party! I'm paying to the party!]] – They get it from Parliament, and the relations of the clubmen are the same for all. So don't play!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13397	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of a further actual correction. Please comply with the GOG provisions and comply with the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13421	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor claimed that the tax reform and family reform of this government will increase income despite the new government's first tax package. – This is wrong insofar as it is correct that the tax and family reform was enforced by SPÖ in the former government in this form, which leads to this effect and was rejected by the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is not an actual correction!]] Secondly, Ms. Vice-Chancellor also claimed that over the last 30 years SPÖ had built debt of 1,600 billion. - That's wrong! Rather, it is true that these were several governments, of course also the coalition, with it worth mentioning that at the time of the entry of today's Federal Chancellor into the old coalition there were 800 billion schilling debts, and now there are 1,600 billion. [[Call to the liberals: There are 1,700 billion!]] That means there was a doubling of debts. The Federal Chancellor has played a significant part in this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13482	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kuntzl. The speaking time is set at 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13504	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, you have unfortunately avoided very correctively answering our questions. [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: I answered her all!]] Unfortunately, you forgot to tell us how you want to make your announcement true in the next few years, in empty form and in attacks to the opposition. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Sometime at the same time, when their burdens became apparent to Austrians at the beginning of June, the FPÖ leadership was called to Carinthia, gathered at the Millstätter See and kept there that the load rate she is driving would obviously harm her party. I already understand this nervousness, just against the background of the workers' election results that you have entered and in which you have been almost halved. I understand that you're getting nervous and thinking about how to correct that, which hurts you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you have not decided to make a better policy, but you have decided – Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler made this publicly known immediately afterwards – to change something only in marketing, according to the motto: We just have to sell ourselves better, we just have to be different. – And so since this meeting at the Millstätter See, the deception work of the FPÖ has begun. Great promises are made, of which one in fact knows in advance that they cannot be observed: Neither the so-called stress stop you agree with at the same time that you have been burdening, nor the promises you make at the same time, even more powerfully pouring out the filler horn, extending the karenz time by another year, which causes expenses that are absolutely impossible to cover. Mrs. Vice chancellor! I watched you at this press conference when you promised to stop this load, and it was clear to you – you have done me honest, almost sorry – that you are uncomfortable, for you have known that the promises you will not be able to meet are because in the background your Minister of Finance is already working Grasser. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: No reason to suffer!]] [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: Wait!]] You know that, because he's already basking on the next load package. And here to one of your non-responsibilities to the request, to the VAT increase he is making: We did not ask whether the 10-percent increase to 20 percent, but whether the 10-percent increase or the 20-percent increase. They seem to have understood this – I don't know – misunderstandingd and treated it as a pure invention, perhaps also in order not to have to answer this question. You're basking on the next load package, but I'll make you a suggestion: Why don't you take the chance? Let your empty words follow concrete actions and support our motion for a resolution which I would like to put forward: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please keep the revelation page! We will monitor closely, or the public will observe exactly your voting behaviour. Take the opportunity and agree to this request, the social-democratic desire for an honest stop to the burden on small and medium-sized incomes! Voices However, if it does not, it will again prove that: You have nothing but empty words left for "little" people.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13603	The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzlund Genossinen is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13630	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let me say: With all the criticism of the Socialist Group, it has one consequence. I was here six weeks ago at the urgent request to the Federal Chancellor and I thanked the SPÖ at that time because so far every special parliamentary action – whether special or urgent – has been a plus to the government. [[Abg. Grabner: You'd be killed soon! A roundneck!]] You are consistent, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Today's meeting is another plus for the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is only a small difference: We had to wait for at least some time during the previous parliamentary special activities, we had to pursue the debate for some time to know that it was a flop. Today we have already known two hours before that the whole thing is a flop, because of ten questions seven are not in conformity with business rules, as de facto unconstitutional. Ladies and gentlemen! Two hours before knowing that this is a flop, that is a low point of your parliamentary activity, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I do not want to say what is likely to happen in other groups to a clubman or a executive clubman. These would probably not be very long in this function. It is obvious to the kindness of the SPÖ Group that you can afford all these low points. [[Abg. You're getting weaker and weaker! It's sad!]] Mr President, I should like to thank It is not just the questions that are not in accordance with the rules of business, namely, questions such as: What if? What would you do if?, but if it is already mentioned in the introduction to the questions that fiscal consolidation for this federal government is only a "premise", that is a total loss of reality. No matter if the EU, the OECD, the Monetary Fund, whether its own experts, such as Felder, Professor Kramer, Professor Frisch, all say: We actually have to save a lot more, we have to get through much harder. Your problem is that your own experts are blaming you today that you do not take the consolidation of the budget seriously. This is your problem, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If this federal government has begun to rerule the country, of course "rerule" also means to have courage for the truth, to open up problems, not to conceal, but to tell the public the truth. [[Abg. Edlinger: Why don't you do that?]] And your problem – that signal all polls, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – is that the citizen is much more reasonable than you believe. The citizen is perceiving what you're doing here in the House of Lords. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] The citizen also sees through, Mr Commissioner, that you can call so much in between, that for us budgetary policy is future design, but for you, on the other hand, to make budget policy debt at the expense of the future of our children. We will certainly not allow this to happen here in the House as a government, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: That's no more quality at all, that's just more polemic!]] You don't have the courage to the truth. You would be well advised to spend less time on street demonstrations and strikes, but to invest more time in constructive proposals regarding the future! That would actually be a constructive opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But you prove two things with each parliamentary session: First of all, you prove that you are bad losers, very bad losers, and you prove second that you are completely out of bound and band that you are completely out of step, otherwise as blamable things as today could not happen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: That doesn't matter, otherwise we wouldn't have won the workers' chamber elections!]] This couldn't happen if you weren't completely out of step. Mr President, I should like to thank That's the truth, but I admit, the truth sometimes doesn't like to hear. Let's take a different example. The request says that the companies will be relieved. – You have completely overlooked that companies contribute 14.3 billion schilling to budget consolidation from any other wage reductions to budget consolidation. [[Abg. Edlinger: Go, stop!]] Mr Colleague, 14.3 billion schilling! – You twist the facts from the SPÖ, you say the untruth! [[Abg. Edlinger: You know that's not true!]] Mr. Alt-Finanzminister Edlinger! Who made the proposal that the early retirement age should be increased by two years? [[Abg. Edlinger: From the bowl!]] He came from you! And now one and a half years in gentle steps are too many? [[Abg. Edlinger: The bowl made this proposal!]] This is incredible policy, just as unbelievable, Mr Alt-Finanzminister, as what you have told us for weeks about the famous Edlinger-Budgetloch. This crash was necessary and showed how important it was to achieve a change in government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, however, I do not want to go further in your wounds – and my speaking time is ending. Just one more thing: The mouth of the people says – and this unfortunately applies to you –: "An accident rarely comes alone." It is a new accident that comes upon you at every parliamentary meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13834	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e13893	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The questioner is defying – exactly! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent times we have experienced some urgent questions from your group, but today's urgent question is the so-called revelation page: Of the ten questions you have raised, seven have been deleted, and during the debate you have come to the point that a change in the Rules of Procedure could now be made here in the House so that a so-called oral question can be put to Mrs Vice-Chancellor. And come during the remarks of Mrs. Vice-Chancellor You want to know now how to imagine the savings of 30,000 planning posts. You might have asked: Where do you want to save? How do you want to save that? When do you want to start? How long is it supposed to take? What should this have on the budget? You would have had five questions, and you would have saved yourself a huge embarrassment. I give you a good advice: Go to the Freedom Party and take follow-up hours in the area of urgent inquiries, then become You're not going to experience such blumbers anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Exactly! That's a good advice!]] [[Calls of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: There's a urgent one, and then there's no one left!]] But why this urgent question is so unloving, Mr Oberhaidinger, of course has a certain reason. This has a certain reason, namely the so-called estate that we have received from you. We have received from you a "beautiful" discount in the order of 1,700 billion Schilling debts, Mr. Alt-Finanzminister Edlinger. The number's right, I think, isn't it? So 1,700 billion schilling! Interests for this amount to about 100 billion schilling. – This makes 274 million schilling per day, that makes 11.5 million schilling per hour, that does 190 000 s per minute, and that does 3 170 s per second. colleague Haigermoser, once you breathe in, is 10 000 s away for the operation of public debt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: After servas! There I am, however, a expensive breather! It'll cut off my air!]] This is the legacy that you have left us, and you are faced with this estate alone, Mr Ex-Finanzminister. You are therefore faced with this downfall because Austria has fallen back to the last place in Europe under your aegide. Under your aegide, Austria – despite high economic growth or despite tax increases – has fallen back to the last place to an incredibly high degree. [[Abg. Edlinger: In the last place we fell through the tax reduction!]] The Austrian population is wondering how there is such a thing at all. Here the old government members of the Socialist Party, such as Mr. Edlinger, come out and boast: Austria is the third richest country in Europe, Austria is the seventh richest country in the world! – In view of this, of course, people are wondering why our situation is so sad that we are at last in Europe. Why is the situation so sad that 1 million people live on the poverty line? Why is the situation so sad with regard to differences in income between men and women in the order of 30 percent? Every family with two children has 1 million schilling debts as "start capital". – This is the "success" of your policy! And now you're going here and you're just gonna say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Since the liberals are in the Federal Government, there is an enormous load package! [[Abg. Edellinger: One by one! It's coming!]] That's not the case, and I'm going to tell you now why that's not the case. They increased by 65.8 billion schilling in 1996 and 1997 as a result of tax increases in direct taxes. You have increased the indirect taxes by 28.11 billion schilling, and you have increased by 14.8 billion schilling in the case of family support, child support, karenz money. And you have also launched a pension reform. In 1997 and 1998, this created a burden on the Austrian population in the order of more than 20 billion schilling. More than 20 billion schilling please! And in the final effect, nothing came out, for the simple reason, because you just grabbed the little ones. There were also special pension rights. Those who were able to judge it have also protected you. – This is certainly not the path of freedom, but a pension reform will be launched here, which will mean a pension scheme for the future period. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you are dealing with the burden on the population due to the increase in taxes in the budget 2000 – and I am simply saying that these are tax increases; it is about throughput, it is about motor insurance tax, it is about tobacco tax; this is a package in the order of 7 billion schilling – compared to the fact that we have made it possible to finance a tax reform that has an impact of 29 billion schilling, then come They insist that there is a net relief of 22 billion schilling for the Austrian population. [[Abg. Edlinger: Wrong, you know that!]] I would also like to say to you, Mr Ex-Finanzminister: There is also a certain reason why we did not agree at the time. You have misinformed the House of Lords about the real financial situation of the Republic of Austria. Mr Van der Bellen went out of here at the time and said that you put here a blank check in the order of 29 billion schilling, so this reform cannot be accepted in any way. We liberals, together with the Austrian People's Party, with a Free Minister of Finance, have made these reform measures financially available, and this is the greatest success of this German government in this legislative period so far. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In your question you are also a little scared by the SPÖ. You will write in here what we have increased: the turnover tax on the food, the taxation of wine sales by the winegrowers, the taxes on coffee and tea, the increase in beer tax, alcohol tax, sham. – pardon: Sparkling tax. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Disgusting tax!]] – sparkling wine tax, yes; that can happen once. What you do not, of course, take into account in this debate is that this replacement solution for the beverage tax results in a reduction of 1.4 to 1.6 billion schilling for the Austrian economy and also for the Austrian consumer. [[Abg. Edlinger: No, just for the economy!]] Also for the Austrian economy, also for the Austrian consumer! [[Abg. Edellinger: Where? Nowhere! That's absurd!]] If this beverage tax on beer is calculated, then half the beer is cheaper by 2.50 s, and that is a tax reduction for me – and not a tax increase as you always try to represent it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, this Federal Government has also taken measures that you should have taken for a long time, but have not been able to do so, or have repeatedly pushed it to the long bank. This concerns, among other things, the drinking tax solution, which has now been excellently successful, also with the involvement of the countries and municipalities. [[Abg. Edlinger: "Superb"? That's what you believe.]] The second area concerns the anonymity of savings books. You've pushed the whole thing in front of you. We from the Freedom Party have constantly pointed out that the anonymity of savings books is abolished. We have put in applications for strengthening banking secrecy through the Banking Act, but you have repeatedly rejected it. Now the Banking Act is unchanged, but anonymity has been abolished. – The members of the liberal government, together with the ÖVP, have achieved this solution, but this with banking secrecy alone has to answer you, Mr. Alt-Finanzminister Edlinger. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This federal government has managed to set up within a very short time a housing right novel, which will lead to drastic rental reductions for the tenants. This federal government has established a privatisation law for the ÖIAG. This will create the possibility that the debt from the ÖIAG will be repaid, that long-term financing requirements for future generations will no longer be met. And this federal government has also achieved, above all, that the forced labour force solution you have pushed long before us is finally being implemented. All these are failures that you left us as an inheritance. – Within 100 days, this Federal Government has managed to link a package of measures in the form of initiatives in a very well-dose form that does not need to be ashamed of its name. You should rather welcome these initiatives, or these government proposals, with which a great deal is being done for the Austrian population, and not always do bad as you do. If you have other suggestions, please bring them here. But you are making a frontal opposition here, with which you will surely continue to suffer shipwreck by SPÖ in the next few years. The cover of the last "profile" edition shows where the journey of the SPÖ goes: You're already under 30 percent. The path to the 25 percent will not be far.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14096	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14130	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Khol – he's not here now, but I think he's going to be told, or maybe he'll be able to hear it too –: I understand, Mr Klubobmann Khol, that you are doing a hard job, after the honourable Member and Klubobmann Westenthaler, who this time has already set his "plow" to cover the Parliament quite deeply, to find something else where you can plow. But, Mr Klubobmann Khol, we Greens do not agree that, in order to find something else to plow here, you will reach a rhetorical level that ridicules every discussion. And it ridicules every debate, especially every debate here in the House, when a clubman of a Christian party speaks of the "most stupid Eskimos on the sleigh". That's a mockery of every debate! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And it also mocks every debate, ladies and gentlemen – and this allusion was very fine and very hidden and very malicious, precisely because of it – when Klubobmann Khol, who knows and can do this exactly, makes the future diseases of other politicians in this House the subject of pleasure. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have had at least one level on these issues, which was not very high, ladies and gentlemen, but it is important for us to keep at least this level. On the content of the debate, ladies and gentlemen. – It is not so easy to refer to what happened, but allow me some comments. I would have liked to see a little more seriousness – including from the government representatives – if you would like to explain to us today how you want to do what we are reading again in the "standard" today, that the Minister of Finance intends to spend additional 30 billion schillings by 2003 through expenditure savings. The Minister of Finance or, in this case, the Vice-Chancellor, who was questioned, is to explain where the remaining billions – and that is in 2001 at least 70 billion schillings that need to be saved – will come from. This will not be possible, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, that you will save 100 billion schilling – or just call the figures for 2001 – on the expenditure side. This is not imaginable unless you use – and there is also enough reason and reason to think about it – the social transfers, you rely on exactly those funds distributed in our country to help those who receive too little over the primary income distribution. Or, ladies and gentlemen: If you do not want to save expenditure on social transfers, tell us where you want to save where you get these 70 billion schillings. Or, Mrs. Vice chancellor: Explain how else you want to come to this sum, which tax or other charges you want to raise to this sum to be able to raise this 70 billion schilling for 2001. How do you get it from? – Nothing comes from anything, ladies and gentlemen. And I tell you, after I have been waiting for this example to come back with the seconds and the minutes, that should show how the thousands of people are going through the hand of the Minister of Finance or the Austrian citizens: Try to follow with me a comparison of those countries which have consolidated and which have then generated surplus budgets. Let's compare this with the Austrian situation. These countries are Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Finland, Sweden and Great Britain. They all generated surpluses. But what do you notice? – With the exception of Great Britain, these are all countries where the tax and tax rate is much higher than in Austria. Denmark: 49,5 percent, Luxembourg – it's hard to compare, I admit –: 46.5%, Finland: 46.5%, Sweden: 51.9%. Only in the UK, the tax and tax rate is very low: 35.4 percent; this is the case here. But please, ladies and gentlemen, you will not want to make the mistake of bringing Austria to the British level and calling it a success. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it is true that these countries have also achieved their consolidation success because they have a higher tax and tax rate, it is also interesting to look at what the distribution of these taxes looks like. And it goes on to note that these are all – through the bank – countries that have a much higher profit tax on capital companies than Austria. I can read the numbers to you again: Denmark 2.6% of GDP, Luxembourg 8.6% of GDP, Ireland 3.3% of GDP, the Netherlands 4.4% of GDP. – Yes, more will be taken from the profits, and obviously this does not prevent these countries from flourishing, and obviously it is also with a requirement to consolidate the government budget in order to ultimately create again conditions of which you are convinced that they are necessary for the economy. And "for the economy" means not only for businesses, but also for workers. Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to follow this example, then explain You are! Tell me if you intend to increase corporate tax, whether you intend to reintroduce or increase taxes or taxes in the area of inheritance, assets or gifts! Is that what you're gonna do? Or where else would you like to consolidate? You won't do it at the payroll taxes. With regard to indirect taxes, such as VAT, I also assume that you will not do so if at least I am allowed to follow Mrs Vice-Chancellor's statement. So where do you want to obtain revenue in the tax field? Do you make it without any revenue? - I don't think so. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this government, all the more so than it has left its manuscript in this 2000 budget, will be in those areas where it will indeed be dangerous for small and medium-sized incomes: social transfers. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, your example, where you have been bubbling, what relief you have provided through the tax reform, is wonderfully suited to demonstrate what this social policy or policy of the new Federal Government means. They have brought the example of a single parent with 18 600 S grossto and a child or two children she has to care for. 18 600 S grossto. It is experienced by the tax reform of this or the old federal government – I do not want to argue about that – per year 8 000 to 9 000 S of discharge. Now we all know, that's not that much at all; this woman has a net income of about 13,000 p. Interesting, however, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor – and you should really be careful! –: With your thought-for-money limits for the reference of karenz money, exactly this woman no longer receives the "carence money for all". She will no longer receive it if one remains at this limit of 200 000 s, because this woman mentioned in the example deserves more. Without 13. and 14. This woman loses monthly salary, loses single parents with one child or two children, the "cardiac allowance for all". Do you know what this is all about in the year? – That's 72,000 S! You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are, on the one hand, advocating the fact that this woman is getting 8 000 s more through the tax reform – but on the other hand, a measure that you will decide to take in the next few months is taken away by this woman 72 000 S! [[Contradiction of the Abg. Haller.]] This woman works, and she finances this "carnation money for all" – "all" please also under quotation marks – but does not receive it herself! [[Abg. Haller: What are you talking about?! That's a blackmail!]] And this is the "success" of this federal government? – You do not believe that yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[Call to the liberals: you have no idea! Let's explain this!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This is more than clear evidence that you are not thinking of actually providing reliefs in favour of small and medium-sized incomes, but you are planning – and that would have been an exciting debate, which you are planning – in the future, when it comes to the social transfers, exactly where the poor and the poorest are most affected in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14226	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kubitschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Only for the minutes, Mr President: Mr Gusenbauer is not here at the urgent request of the SPÖ. And only one third of SPÖ's representatives are present at their own request! So "serious" they take their request!]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: The request was not even answered! In the "responsible" it's not a miracle!]] [[Further calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP MPs.]] Mrs Kubitschek is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14275	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer – even though she obviously no longer likes to confess to it today – together with the "simple party member" Jörg Haider has made a public promise that the FPÖ in the government will ensure that no further burdens will be incurred. The FPÖ, as Mrs Vice-Chancellor said, will "prevent" that the budget continues – I stress: continue! – Rehabilitation of tax and tax increases. Of course, this logically requires that there is a load package. And since increases in fees and consumer taxes are known to lead to the fact that "small" people are particularly affected, this means that the FPÖ – even though it is now very unpleasant and quite embarrassing – has joined the SPÖ holding, which is convinced that it is not allowed to distribute one-sided gifts to companies and to pay "small" income recipients for them. Social balance, ladies and gentlemen, is much more of the scale that you set when you claim to represent "small" people. However, the question that we now have to ask ourselves is what we must keep from this promise: from a promise with which a stopover is announced. The problem is that this is not the first promise of this kind. On the contrary: For years, the FPÖ has been preaching up land, landing down, that it is the only party that seriously represents the "simple, brave and diligent Austrians". Many of these "little and brave people" were convinced by the liberals at the time. – But now, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you are faced with the rather difficult task of explaining to the "small" people why the liberals used the very first opportunity to betray the interests of these people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They will not come around the fact that they have decided to have a load package with which "small" people are twice and tripled. I'm on your side, if you think it's not easy to sell your voters a burden budget, one that misses any sense of justice. And since, of course, simple party members also have to notice what is being played there, Mr Westenthaler has not tire of explaining that it is not about a load package, but quite the contrary. If you believe Mr Westenthaler, then this government will even bring the people tax savings to billions. [[Call to the Freeman: Who wrote you this speech?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It's bad!]] It can already happen that, in the zeal of the fight, one "forgets" to mention that the 20 or 21 billion schilling of tax savings was actually decided under a SPÖ government – and it must be said that the FPÖ did not agree. Ladies and gentlemen! But what you really should not forget in all your forbearance is to say that the distributed billions are also being re-cassed, in order to make the entrepreneurs happy. Even if you repeat it a thousand times from the FPÖ: Your simple party members just don't take these stories off! This is also the reason why the voters run away from you in all directions. Your not quite so simple member of the party Jörg Haider understands this of course – and he becomes, as it seems, increasingly nervous. That is why we are now faced with a renewed promise of yours: the end of the burden policy. – We would really like to believe this, ladies and gentlemen of the Freeman, however: In view of the framework conditions before which this promise was made, I think it is quite legitimate to ask whether this can also be observed. So far, we have come from the FPÖ – even if this is always disputed! – quite different sounds heard. In newspapers, it is always to be read – by the way today – that Minister Grasser is planning new load packages. Minister Grasser has never distanced himself from these newspaper articles of my knowledge. On the contrary! And even in today's newspapers, you can read it carefully again, as I said. This announced "stopover" is therefore obviously not even taken seriously by the FPÖ itself. So how, ladies and gentlemen, do you think we should deal with this one of your promises? In fact, the framework conditions for a stopover are very bad, not because this government would have adopted a budget deficit for which it is not responsible, but: Meanwhile, the problems are quite home-made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Firstly, this government has failed to put in place in the budget 2000 any structural measures that could lead to a permanent reorganisation, which will result in a massive increase in pressure on the next budget. Secondly, by the end of the legislative period, this government has planned further expenditure, which totals approximately 38 billion schillings in extra expenditure – and in addition expenditure of about 18 billion schillings for the third year and a few "small ones" will be added. These extra expenditures, ladies and gentlemen, will be paid by someone before! Thirdly, Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel has repeatedly announced that 400 billion schilling will be saved over the next three years. Fourthly, the European Union insists that Minister Grasser present a "more ambitious restructuring package" in his second budget than that of his first. Even if I wish, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, that you would keep this your promise, namely to stop a load, I do not know at best how you should succeed. – But whether you can keep a promise, you should consider before you give it. That is why you can be sure, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, that we – and certainly your simple party members – will measure you up to whether you will meet this promise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14356	Next, Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14377	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Minister Böhmdorfer! Today and tomorrow it is about implementing ambitious points of our government programme; there will certainly be very interesting debates on this. But if you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, put a urgent question here today – despite an already extensive agenda! – but then this is not even the presence of half of your Members, but I do not need to say anything more about this urgent request as a representative of the Austrian People’s Party. [[Abg. Don't talk!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14413	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14454	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr Schwamlein, you should not be so upset: In any case, the answers were overwhelming in relation to the thirst of your clubman Gusenbauer's request from my point of view. [[Abg. Swimmling: But only from your point of view!]] In any case, I have not yet experienced such a request as today's Social Democratic Group in my 14 years here in the House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I allow a semantic note of your question here, Mr Schwamlein, I must say: This clearly reminds me that the last election analyses have clearly shown that you have no future from the SPÖ in the young voters. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Chamber of Labour Elections!]] And this should also have caused you to signal at least your sense of future through ten "future questions" today. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Dear colleague Head! People are running away from you in crowds!]] Mr Schwemlein, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is not what you and your group are doing. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If I look at your urgent question, questions 1, 2, and 3 and the contents of these questions as a whole, with no basis for this, by the way, and neither in the government programme nor in the projects of this Federal Government, I have to say: This reminds me very much of what the Chamber of Labour Vienna has published in its election brochures for the Chamber of Workers' Elections in Vienna, namely: [[Abg. Swimmling: They were far more successful than you!]] We will be 13th and 14th. We will prevent the increase in VAT, and we will avoid increases in fees. – This is what the AK Wien wrote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats: What you've done with this request is no different from the method "Keep the thief!" They want to justify what the Chamber of Workers has done in the election campaign against better knowledge, namely to say something that has never been discussed at all. So you will continue to try to insure the Austrians and to prevent the adoption of necessary and important laws here by actions such as yours here in the House today. You will not succeed, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Asshole: The answer of a pressing person does not prevent any decision!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you will not spend! And this federal government will prove here, just as it has already done in the Committee, that discussions are of course desirable, that they take account of them with interest and in all the Court, taking into account positive reactions and proposals for amendments that are good. However, we will not allow ourselves to be stopped by you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, with a word, no tone and no method of what is good and important for our Republic and all the levels of the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Republic of Austria is far too important for us to do this. And this is also far more important than you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, your own urgent needs are obvious today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In any case, please note: We will not allow, for example, a continuation of a policy à la Edlinger and of the health policy which you, the Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, have made savings in the field of social security schemes which, as was the case with you, go to the expense of the sick and disabled! We will not do that, but we will ensure that there is financial scope in these areas, too, so that all Austrians of all social classes are fully integrated into the Austrian health policy – and not, as before, only rich people in our country can afford the use of additional institutions, supplementary insurance, supplementary treatment, better treatment. This treatment should be possible again! We won't go where Tony Blair is now. It is true that in the UK 45-year-olds no longer receive bone marrow transplants, that 60-year-olds no longer get haemodialysis there, that transplants are no longer made from a certain age, so that the older generation, in German said, is mistreated in the social and health system, even eliminated, just as it happens under your social democratic model Blair! [[Abg. Swimmling: But you want to imitate Blair at the rents!]] We will ensure that, in Austria, all shifts are treated in the same way by the social policy of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a dangerous threat!]] Yes, Mr. colleague, this may be a dangerous threat to those who have been used to "directing" it in Austria and its social system, which were used to – I repeat this – to "direct" it and, in a bypass loop, to come to service posts, to Pragmatizations or additional salaries, which, however, made the simple Austrians expensive to pay for it, without even having received a corresponding return. That's what I like to admit! – will end the policy of this federal government. As you, Mr Oellinger, have been thinking about transfers of social weakness, I can tell you the following – and the poverty conference has proved this –: At the end of Mr. Edlinger's financial policy, 500 000 Austrians were in poverty, and 1 million people in Austria are at risk of poverty, including single parents, women and families with children. You, Mr Oellinger, have obviously not read to this day the knowledge of the Constitutional Court regarding the horizontal justice for families, otherwise you would take account of these findings by the highest constitutional judges of Austria in your discussions – and not simply ignore them! And then you might also agree with or even agree with alternatives to the family package of this federal government. The example you have given, Mr Oellinger, is quite clear, because you can only compare something comparable, something which is the case today, which is not a performance! And you can compare this with what it will be like in the future, for example with additional benefits that will enable women to get out of the poverty trap in which they find themselves today due to the policy of the Socialists. I can say it again here – and I have never disputed that –: Yes, it fell into the term of office of Minister of Finance Edlinger that there was care money also for the disabled, but: Not you, Mr Edlinger, have introduced this, but Minister Hesoun! And after this introduction by the then Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun, Mr Edlinger, you and your predecessor, Staribacher, have continually shortened this foster. That's a fact! [[Abg. Edlinger: I didn't cut anything!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Don't get rid of these problems, Mr Edlinger. Invent You don't have new fairy tales about your "gloriosis" past as a finance minister, but you also remain with the truth to your own party friends, party friends who had their social merits, but you, colleague Edlinger, have clearly weakened your financial policy! This is the truth – and nothing else!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14669	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14690	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It was already the beginning of the discussions on this urgent question that I really did not understand. In fact, one can differ on the question of how far objects of execution range. So far, it has always been Usance here in the House to understand this question generously, and, above all, members of the government have always taken the opportunity to represent their political intentions around their scope and around political statements they have made. – I do not really understand why this causes such a wave of rejection at once. In the matter, I think it is important not only to speak very carefully about the issue of distribution justice in Austria, but also to improve the basics, data and statistics. I can well remember that it was the liberals – at that time in their role as opposition group – who have repeatedly emphasized the need to do more for the so-called little people, and that there were so many things in the distribution policy. – Now I have the impression – and the introduction to today’s urgent question has proved this – that you are shy of this debate. I think that's really sad, and that doesn't make us accept anything good for the future. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Overall, I have the impression that a highly selective saving or stress rate is being driven. It is not true that all the areas are addressed equally with the sparillas, but it is shown that in some areas – without this prospect of success – a policy of casting can or of filling horn is being started. However, where the sparry screw is becoming increasingly tightened, exactly the areas which the honourable Member has just referred to are: These are the "small" people, and especially the women. This has begun with steps that have not only had a symbolic effect, but have also shown their impact in the Council of Ministers: from the savings of the Ministry of Women to very concrete policies. A group is now being hit disproportionately, namely those older people who are close to pensions. I would like to tell you a little something that happened to me a few days ago. I was addressed on one of the Vienna markets by a salesman who is now 50 years old, not invalid, not severe and not completely incapable of pursuing a professional activity, but she is worried. She is afraid of the question of how long she can still practice her profession as a salesman, and she has shown me what her problem is. It has the hardest cramps and may not be able to exercise this standing profession for a long time. She's already been told: She's supposed to look around; maybe she'll find a sitting activity somewhere, some work in an office. She asked me: Are the people who propose this far away from any reality? Where am I supposed to find a job in an office with my 52 years after I've done nothing but stand here on the market for my life?- Oh, my God! – I ask You really are: Is that your form of justice? Is this your position for the "small" people, for whom women in our country have worked hard for a lifetime, that they have to bear an disproportionate level of loads?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Or what would you recommend to this woman, including those who represent female workers' interests? – There is no way out for them! If, moreover, she has the "nothing" – under quotation marks – in a sincere To live marriage, she is also counted as her husband's income; then she has no right at all to emergency aid and social security. Then, even earlier than it may have been, it is de facto, de facto! I can only say: Bravo, this is a real step for the "little" people! – That’s saving in the wrong place! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Because the Head of Parliament has addressed the question of horizontal and vertical distribution: That's exactly the question. I also believe that horizontal distribution is necessary, and I believe that it is necessary, even in those groups of people who are not or are not yet affected by poverty or risk of poverty, to take account of certain aspects of life, such as child care obligations, better and stronger. But that's not gonna be achieved right now! They will also make it possible in the area of partial reimbursement of costs for children, that nothing will be done for those most in need of solidarity between society and the public sector contribution! If, in the future, the childcare allowance is to be a benefit of the family allowance fund – such as the child allowance, which is family allowance – then I really ask you: Why Lead Is it a matter of giving women an income dependency, exclusively on the incomes of women themselves? – This is not system compatible. This is the result of this system, and this will result in the fact that, in particular, those women who are consistently employed want to be or have to be, that women who have their own care obligations have to fulfil their own obligations, that women who are subject to maintenance should be completely blinded by this regulation. – This is not horizontal, let alone vertical distribution. All in all, therefore, I consider the question of the victims of future austerity policy to be more than right. I regret that more questions have remained open in this debate than you have answered.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14777	As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14799	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If only three of the ten questions remain, because the majority of the President is put off after a short presidential term, this will give a certain amount of light to the applicant. [[Abg. Riepl: What was "decommissioned"?]] It does not necessarily speak for the quality of the questioner and founder, or perhaps also of the Ghostwriter. Or does it perhaps reflect the current situation of the SPÖ, which is plagued by hundreds of million schilling of debt and a chairman who regularly enters the fat cap by approving the sanctions against Austria and at the same time resorting to "monitoring"? [[Abg. Son of a bitch: My God!]] – I mean, the SPÖ should confess itself clearly to red-and-white red. Austria is not Albania, Chechnya or anyone else. [[Abg. Swimmling: This is a plate like shelllacks!]] The sanctions must be ended because they are unfair! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The content of the urgent request did not really contain anything new. It is polemized and argued with half-truths. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Your speech...!]] One leaves one's own social-democratic horror fantasy free, and in order to bring this horror fantasy to the people, you obviously have every means right. Just think of the last Chamber of Workers election! [[Abg. Schwemlein: But this is Parliament, Mr Colleague – and not a farmer’s event!]] The fact is: The budgetary situation is very serious after 30 years of socialist finance ministers. The SPÖ Finance Ministers have left deep traces, and all Austrians contribute to the stabilisation. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The ÖVP was never in the government at all!]] Those who are serious about the population should tell the truth, such as the truth in terms of budget, pensions, health system and so on. [[Calls and calls between the Abg. Swimming and deputies of the liberals.]] Those who believe they have to strike for railway privileges are far away from what the people really think. [[Abg. Swimmling:... a cock is that!]] The population is in the sense of what is necessary, much more than many ladies and gentlemen from the left half of the empire. Those who are honest with the population should actually say yes, it is necessary, we must save! [[Abg. You're a farmer!]] We also need to take some painful steps so that we can have the money for those activities that we need in the medium and long term! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Unbelievable!]] In the argument, the tax reform can be achieved by 1st. January 2000, which in any case brings 17 billion schilling to the payroll tax area and 12 billion schilling to the families. I would like to deal with this area, with the families, a little closer. The discussion in the last Family Committee meetings was quite interesting, such as the behaviour of the opposition parties on the re-regulation of karenz money, or we say better: on child care allowance up to 36 months after the formula 24 plus 12. If one takes the discussion about the income limits, it should be said that only the control and bureaucracy costs would be much higher than the result of the savings measures. On the other hand, it can be said that those in the upper categories of income have always been able to "direct" themselves to take advantage of the benefit money. But I've never been able to explain to me how a student, a farmer, or a housewife is supposed to "just" that she has the full right to karenz money. However, these are according to the statements of the former Women's Minister Prammer of Women who never worked. [[Abg. Asshole:... the money for those who need it!]] The thinking of the left half of the empire is something strange: The best the children immediately after birth into the nursery, the all-day kindergarten and the all-day school, the mother in the union – and the socialist world is all right! – Ladies and gentlemen, here the government parties and the opposition parties are very different from each other! [[Abg. Swimming: But go!]] In addition, it was concluded that: Such senseless urgent requests qualify themselves by themselves!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e14990	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15011	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There was criticism of the wording of the question. It must be permissible. She was certainly very far-reaching. But at least as much as it must be allowed to be applied here by the Bureau from the widest scope of interpretation when we are faced with parliamentary culture and with the control activity of the Parliament of the Government. - That's one. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The next concern, however, was quite different for me. On the basis of this wording, there has been a presidential one and a number of speeches to the Rules of Procedure have been made. To the Rules of Procedure – and what happens? Mr Westenthaler goes out here, but only manages to deliver an opinion on the subject, in which he polemises against the SPÖ – which he does not know – but has not contributed at all to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Swimmling: Moser has prescribed the wrong speech to him!]] You're used to that, too. What is actually new – in this form new – and worrying is that Col. Khol can be infected by the Westenthaler level. And that's a special art! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact that Mr Westenthaler is called "Ziehsohn" by Klubobmann Khol in various gasses – one can speculate whether this is true or not. Westenthaler does not take particularly special initiatives, that is right. But there is obviously also the reverse colouring ratio: Also Khol takes color from Westenthaler. That actually means a dramatic deterioration in this House. How else it would be clear that Khol is running out here to Westenthaler and says – colleague Haigermoser is jumping again, bravo! –: the last Eskimo at the back of the sleigh. You have to imagine that! That's comparable... [[Abg. Ollinger: "The dumbest"!]] Thank you – "the dumbest Eskimo in the back"! To make it clear what that means: Imagine, in Brussels or France someone says: the dumbest Austrian in the back of the hay car. That's what I want to look at! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who?]] Rightful resistance would have come out of your ranks. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact that Klubobmann Khol goes on this level is that I think it is worrying. And if there is still such a grateful question – I do not defend it at all – one could have grasped it more precisely – by you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, no better use is made of it, I am surprised. She, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, is polemizing return from the government bank. – Many questions have remained open, and that would not have been necessary. If after each ECOFIN meeting, after each EU Finance Ministers' Ministerial Council meeting, Grasser announces that we will be "close to balance" in two and a half years, and if he corrects this to 0.0 to 0.5 percent, I look at how it will go. How's that going?- Oh, my God! At the same time, the immeasurable from Carinthia – to which you have been joined – announces a stress stop. How does it all go under a hat if you still provide your clients? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Farmer's Chamber, farmers' money for all! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Kogler! What do we know about you now?]] And last but not least, the federal army investments – not a word for that! Expenditure of 20 billion schilling is planned in the catch-up plans alone. Has this been suspended for the next three years? [[Abg. Haigermoser: What's this calaure supposed to do?]] - I want to know. But there is no word from the government bank! This was certainly not covered by the so-called something original – you say: unhelpful – formulation on the part of the petitioner. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What's this calaure supposed to do?]] I don't know why you're guilty. You like to get a picture of it here in the house. However, I come back to the fact that this government will once again have to speak a clear language in terms of its own spending plans, also in relation to the tax structure. That is not an increase in expenditure – but with a constant tax and tax rate, you will have to look at the tax structure. There is enormous need for action in Austria if you want to continue as a lawyer for so-called small women and men on the road. In Austria, we have a corporate tax system – the Federal Chancellor is now no longer present; I have had a dispute with him at the last emergency of the SPÖ – with very low corporate taxes in the OECD and EU comparisons; they are in the lead. We have wage and income taxes, which are very high, but in fact do not have a redistributive effect, because the derogations apply accordingly. The average tax rates are such that there is no redistribution at all, although the volume would be very high. By the way, this is all with an inheritance of social-democratic government participation, which must be said! There would be enough room to intervene when it comes not only to avoiding load packages, but, in fact, to resell your distribution packages. You do not even save somewhere – at least not so far – but you distribute, from poor to rich. That's your program. It is not yet a matter of saving. How this is supposed to go under these premises, I'm actually looking at it. As you have so far acted, I believe that this is a clear announcement of the deliberate threat to social peace in our country. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] The fact that you do not find words to do so should be more thoughtful. It cannot be enough to accuse cast builders that he has unskillly formulated his request. It can't be. Finally, I would like to express my concern at the fact that, with its announcement of a budget deficit of 0.0% by 2003, Grasser does not change your client policy to fear the worst in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15144	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15160	We are going to act against that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15190	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15211	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! I should like to comment on the statements made by some of the previous speakers in this debate, and I would like to start with the Head of State, whom I am very grateful. Mr President, you have, although you have disqualified Parliamentary possibilities which we have used as necessary or otherwise; They also referred to this as "preventive tactics". But I am grateful to you for the clear statement you made by saying: We're not being hindered by anything. - That means you're going to go over it. You will probably decide with your majority the load package and the following load packages and are not even ready to discuss them. I am truly grateful to you for this openness and for this clear statement. You, Mr President, have also invited us to agree to your rehabilitation package. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your You obviously did not really understand the intention of this urgent question, the content of this urgent question and the objective. One can talk to us about a restructuring package, but not about a load package that you decided during the last committee meetings and during the last plenary sessions, and which will also be decided at today's and tomorrow's meeting. You can't talk to us about consent to a load package. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also address Mr Khol's comments, as some previous speakers have already said. His statements were repeated several times. I must say that I find it really strange, Hohes Haus, that the once "constitutional-bowder" Khol, the "Constitutional-Spanner" Khol in the meantime is either "westenthaled" or "hidden" and the inuit is called stupid and thus shows a defamatory attitude to foreign cultures and foreign people. Mr. "Constitutional-Spanner" Khol! I think you've covered this bow. Go inside! – I am convinced that you will find an excuse that you can make to the Hohe Haue! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The colleague Trattner, who is not present in the hall, unfortunately... [[Abg. Trattner is just going to his place.]] [[Call the liberals: He's already here!]] - Where is he? [[Call to the liberals: Here! Enjoy your meal and thank you for choosing Burger King.]] - Excuse me, I looked at his place, but I couldn't discover him. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: He is omnipresent!]] I am glad that you are there, Mr Trattner, because you may be able to give me an answer to my question. You said here that the beverage tax solution would bring 1.4 billion schilling to the economy and, above all, to consumers. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Right!]] Please call me two innkeepers in Vienna, where the waste of the drinking tax is passed on and the consumer has some of it. [[Abg. Gaugg: The Weibel in the woolline!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Silberwirt in the Schlossgasse and the...!]] Mr Trattner! Call me two more in the federal states. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] – Are you calling Trattner? Since when? I thought you were the "Constitutional-Spanner" Khol! Mr. Trattner would have been required there now, Mr. Khol. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But on one point, Mr Trattner, I give you the right to: Trade will benefit from it, namely the great trade. There is supposed to be a good friend of the currently president-in-chief of the Second National Council or of a certain gentleman in Carinthia, who is also the best-serving manager of Austria, who will certainly be very pleased about it. Perhaps you can also tell me, Mr Trattner: Will you, as a liberal, also get a little bit of this gratitude from Mr Schalle? Maybe there will be some party donations? So have you acted so vehemently for this type of drinking tax regulation? – Give Answer us, and if possible, an open answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now to Mr Stummvoll. You have called in one of your usual speeches on the "must to truth". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] – It was your coalition partner, Mr. Cot. And you, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, today, together with your group, have the opportunity to take up the proof of truth and make a revelation. I am grateful to you for your statement, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, but I also have a question for you. You said: We, the government, save, that is, the state saves itself. – Are you, the government, the state? Are not all the inhabitants of this Republic, all of the more than 8 million Austrians and also non-Austrians who live with us, the State? I think that's the state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you say that the state saves itself, and means the government, then you are wrong, because this government really saves the state, namely with this people, by presenting a distribution from the bottom to the top, and even more scrapping those people who already have little. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like once again to quotes Mr Stumvoll, who has asked for the "must be the truth". Mrs. Vice chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the "F"! Today, they have the opportunity to make a revelation. You have the opportunity to implement and become true today your 1999 slogan by accepting our motion for a resolution. In order to make yourself easier, I can literally read from the "ZiB 2" of the 2nd century. Cite June 2000: Title: "Haider – No turning on the load screw". "The liberals are the stronger partner in the government, so we will also be giving the line in budgetary policy, and this cannot mean that we continue to turn on the wheels of the tax burden and the tax burden, but there will be the determination of the free government members to impose a tax stop and to change the system in many areas." – End of the quote. Put off the revelation page! Simply honest – just agree, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15364	Mr Haigermoser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15386	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It pushes you to find a few more words about this urgent – even in the face of the now well-filled hall. During the whole debate, the Social Democrats were once again not present; they obviously were not interested in their own urgents. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals have never considered the state as private property to be different from you from social democracy. We believe that the state is very well owned by citizens, and from this social responsibility we are called upon to save, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has already formulated it today: Making debt is the most unsocial thing at all. That is why you have not been social, but unsocial, when you have accumulated with Edlinger and other debts of 1,700 billion schilling, my Ladies and gentlemen! Not to mention "consum" and party funds. As an old-fashioned parliamentarian – a few years I've been on the bumple – I thought: That can't be true, this urgent! I was wondering how that might have happened. I can recall the time when we were still in coalition with the Social Democracy, at that time the ÖVP inflated this story quite well. There were some urgent ones not from bad parents, that should be admitted once. But if you look at what self-fallers you have put yourself at home today, Mr Gusenbauer, you have to say that this is more than embarrassing. And Mr. Col. "Ordner"! The question is not whether to answer questions or not, but whether you are referring to Parliament's own highest right, the right of inquiry, whether you have done a good job with this urgent question today. You led the whole ad absurd. Mr. Kostelka will probably wake up this morning – I can imagine how this happened today – and I thought: Today we have to bring in a urgent one! Who hasn't been on the list yet? – Then Mr Kostelka will have looked up: Aha, Mrs. Vice Chancellor! And then he'll have said he was tormented by some troubles: Do something! That's how the situation is now. That was really last-class! We should be right, Mr Kostelka, but if you are responsible for this, you should be quick to think about whether you should not suspend at the next meetings in order to really bring something to the fore. The request: Put something together, that'll be too little! Last comment: We admit that sometimes the pace of reform is a little breathtaking for the representatives of the government parties. That is why you need to do so because for decades you have put the problems before you, or have been storming up for decades. That's the problem! That is why we are – the state does not belong to us! – calling on ladies and gentlemen to bring things into the right lot for the citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is our task, but not to discuss whether or not the question is justified. That's second-rate. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I didn't do that!]] – Well, but it was embarrassing what you did today, Mr Kostelka and Mr Gusenbauer – the two clubmen who do not share the salary; everyone gets the whole! But that's also your problem, make up for your members! You have once again said that the murmuring of some of your old-fashioned Members, who sometimes hit their hands over the head as to whether this club tour is correct. Personally, they do not trust to say – I deliberately call no names, that would be unfair – but you have enough opponents in your own ranks. This urgent question has once again strengthened your fellow Members in their opinion. That was a failure!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15438	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kuntzl and comrades on a stopover for small and medium-sized incomes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Just honest!]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15482	I will resume the negotiations on points 7 to 9 of the agenda. No one has been reported about this anymore. This debate is also closed. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty: International Convention on the control of terrorist bombings, in 47 of the supplements, to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the version of this Convention, in its French, Spanish, Russian, Chinese and Arabic language version, is announced by the fact that they exist in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the official hours for public consultation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – That is also unanimously – excuse me! –, this is accepted by the majority. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic remains seated]] [[Call the public:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Canada on extradition, in 51 of the supplements, to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimous and therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 92 of the Supplements. Mr. Dr. Jarolim, Dr. Fekter, Dr. Ofner, Mag. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment concerning the date of the in-force meeting. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Stoisits and comrades submit an additional request. First of all, I will vote on the supplementary proposal and finally on the draft law as it stands. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request for the inclusion of a new point 3 in Article I. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 92 of the supplements, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Jarolim, Dr. Fekter, Dr. Ofner, Mag. Stoisits and comrades. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of this. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an indication of this. – The draft law has been adopted unanimously. 10. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (93 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Rules of Procedure (execution Rules Novelle 2000 – EO-Nov. 2000) (143 of the Supplements) 11. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (99 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Protection of Access Control Services (ZuKG) (144 of Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (83 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Commercial Code (145 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15550	We shall now proceed to points 10 to 12 of today's agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. I now ask Mrs Huber to open the debate. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15578	Mr President. Federal Minister! I should like to return once again to the vote on the motion for a resolution on stoppage. I have found that the pace the Federal Government is showing is not stunning, but the burdens on the Austrians are very breathtaking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now to the order of execution, ladies and gentlemen. It dates back to the last century, and today's adaptation to the requirements of the 21st century. Thus, the century is very welcome. It is about increasing the effectiveness of execution procedures without, and I think, limiting the level of protection of debtors to date. I am therefore pleased that some of the issues raised in the original draft on debt protection have already been taken into account in the government paper. In particular, the original provision that the auction proceeds should first pay interest and fees and only the rest should be used for capitalisation, especially for highly over-indebted committed persons, does not mean a way out of the debt spiral. I am therefore very glad that the present proposal provides for an accounting of auction proceeds first on capital and only then on interest and fees. We also think it is right that the ban on recycling should be maintained in the event of an existing ban on load and disposal. Thus, creditors can, as before, exercise their exploitation interests only after the removal of the ban on sale and load. This very positive novelle, however, contains a large wormhead drop, which is § 151. In determining the height of the lowest bid, a distinction has so far been made between plots and buildings. In practice, therefore, the credit limit on loans and loans in monetary institutions has resulted in up to two thirds of its value for buildings up to half of their value. Now, with this innovation, this different level is lifted, but the lower value is determined, half of the estimate value. While it is very important and to welcome the fact that the expert is now responsible for the careful preparation of his assessment, to all parties involved, we believe that there is a massive risk that sales will be very far below market value. We therefore consider it absolutely necessary that the lowest bid be made on the basis of the previous higher value, namely two thirds of the estimate value. In this context, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, to agree to this amendment, in order to prevent sales far below the estimated value to the debtor and thus to conceal wealth! We will vote in favour of the draft new system of executives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15665	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Maier, Dr. Jarolim, Anna Huberund Comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15692	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One can only be surprised at the pace at which the new Federal Government takes up old problems, submits them to the solution and therefore leads to the solution. I also heard a federal government, it was not necessary either, but yet the pace we are now experiencing is, I believe, without comparison in the recent history of parliamentarianism in Austria. It is the order of execution, which is being innovationized, a so-called old law. It's from the past century. If you look into the manual library of a lawyer, there are usually three books of manz, encased in dark red, thicker than ten inches or at least ten inches thick. This is the General Civil Code from the time of the beginning of the last century, which is the Civil Procedures of the era of the previous century and the Order of Execution from 1896 with 402 paragraphs. – An extensive work. I am far from seeing the old law structures as absolutely in need of resurgence in every respect. The General Civil Code in its fundamentals, around 200 years old, is still beautiful in its language, ambiguous in what is specified textually, and a real pleasure to read it. You can read it without having to look for anything, and you're built – of course, only if you're a lawyer and you have something on your hat. A veterinary physician, like my son, will probably be less satisfied with reading the ABGB than the lawyers do. The old laws are often very beautiful laws. Nevertheless, for a system of execution in which it concerns the exploitation of assets in favour of creditors and that as little burden as possible should come out for the debtor, it is already a disadvantage if it is older than 100 years, if it originates from the period of grinding of the Glacis in Vienna or some bit from the Ringstraßes era, when all these constructions were not yet planned, but were partly already underway. Especially when it comes to property execution, it is particularly necessary to get to the state of affairs of today, and I believe that this innovation, which has taken out some particularly urgent projects, has really been successful. It is about the time of the e-mail transport, of the fax device or of any other electronic stuff that you have to do in such delicate areas as sailing or walking boats or in a similar way. This innovation will also result in much cheaper, less financial burden on the debtors, without anyone else being affected. It is a good project that it really deserves – and I think it will also come to that – to be brought here in the House one-brightly across the stage. Of course, the liberals will agree with this project, and I believe that it will not and will not be the last revision in this area at the foreseeable time.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15744	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Mertel. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15765	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The relevant directives of the European Union require Member States to introduce measures to prevent unauthorised interference in access controls. In particular, these are decoders, passwords or other devices that make certain services accessible only with the permission of the provider. In practice, these services are mainly subject to television broadcasts or information society services. It is important for today's presentation to implement these EU directives that civil and criminal measures are directed against commercial "pirates" – so-called pirates – at least in the proposal – and not against private users. Copyright is an example, because copyright also protects intellectual property practically and prevents commercial pirates from enriching at the expense of others. It is therefore a very reasonable basic idea, which has been expressed in the EU Directive and which we are implementing here today in a parliamentary way for Austria. It is protected the spiritual owner who has provided a service from the one who wants to make profit without the appropriate performance. This law will have practical significance in the pay-TV market in particular, with a significant impact on the development of this market in Austria behind the other EU countries. Currently, only about 3 percent of television households have subscribed to analogue pay-TV services. The fact is, however, that those services of the information society have a great growth potential, which can be provided and used without regard to borders and distances. In the future, for example, consumers will be given greater opportunities to use, and there is a need for fair opportunities for law-compliant providers. This serves the European economy, but also workers. The draft law, from our point of view, is a step towards adapting the legal system to the requirements of the information society, and my group will therefore agree to this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15813	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft Rules of Procedure Novelle 2000 in 93 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment to the Committee's report 143 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Maier and comrades tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the part of the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Maier and comrades have an amendment concerning § 151 para. 1 brought in, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this purpose for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – The request was accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft Access Control Act, together with the title and receipt in 99 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft law to be approved at third reading, too, for a positive sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. I shall now vote on the draft federal law amending the Commercial Code, including the title and entry into 83 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those members of the High House who stand up for this. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. 13. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 137/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Ing. Peter Westenthalerand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Cable and Satellite Radio Law and the Broadcasting Act (133 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 136/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Ing. Peter Westenthalerand comrades concerning a Federal Law on the Application of Standards of Television Signals (FS-G) (134 of Supplements) 15. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 162/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Ing. Peter Westenthalerund comrades concerning a federal law amending the Regional Radio Act (136 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 146/A by Dr Peter Kostelkaund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Regional Radio Act – RRG (137 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e15983	We now come to points 13 to 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. Mr Cap has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16015	Mr President. High house! We have already negotiated and discussed very intensively in the Constitutional Committee on the present legislative instruments. In essence, however, it is not possible to see why there was no majority in favour of our initiative in the context of a resolution. It is about the government's being able to draw up a list of events, of events in Austria, which are not to be transmitted unencryptedly, which are, of course, of great importance to sports operators and to various other events. The government is sparse, and it will probably last until autumn before it takes action in this regard. We wanted this list to be implemented in good time, and this list will also be submitted by the Austrian side in full and in good time. And this is also to be dealt with in the main committee because these events are of particular social importance and therefore require broad social consensus. I'm sluggish, why that wasn't possible. I think that would have been very useful. - That once on the one point. But it seems to me that there is at the moment a rather diffuse presentation of media policy by the government and the government parties. You only agree to spread a climate of fear and terror to journalists and to carry out intimidation attempts. This is reflected in the fact that permanent rumors are being spread, for example, who is to be exchanged in the ORF, and it is questionable whether one would ever think of dissolving all the intensitys in the near future and to introduce a television director, as was the case before the radio popular desire. In addition, there is a constant rumour that there should be a revision of the Radio Law and that serious changes are planned. Obviously, under the guise of legal change, one wants to operate personnel policy in reality. If one does not really plan this, it is at least intended as an intimidation attempt to bring about government loyalty in reporting more strongly in a way that precedes obedience. But this contradicts the freedom of journalism, the freedom of reporting and, of course, is, as I think, the spread of a climate that is harmful to democracy. This also includes the discussion about the media authority, where there are no real concrete proposals on this project, which could be discussed, but only public statements, press conferences, fragments that are presented. And there, too, is threatened and indicated, for example, the narrowing of the autonomy of the ORF by trying to suggest that the sovereignty of the ORF be transferred to this media authority. There is, of course, resistance, expressed in the interviews of the general intern or also of the VÖZ, the Association of Newspaper Publishers, who also say that they do not want to be the subject of the competences of this media authority. I am sluggish about what is really to happen there, and I wonder if there may be more bureaucracy in the final effect of an attempt to control media politics under the title "Media Convergence, Media Management", whose hard core is to bring more blue-black influence into the media business. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No one listens to you except me!]] You should be massively criticised for this. And I can only tell you one thing: On the other hand, there will be resistance from a public which places great emphasis on the fact that freedom of the press and journalism and reporting will continue to be guaranteed under the conditions of this government constellation in the future. We have also observed with what strange arguments the recoloration of the ORF curatorium has been made. It was then said that these are all experts, who are all guaranteed to be party-independent. But in the vote, everyone has looked to the chairmen of the political groups, as is the case with votes. In addition, they are still personally identical: There, too, Mr Klubobmann Khol sits next to Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, and there is in principle the same group dynamics and the same organization, but under the title: You're free to decide! – In truth, Khol and Westenthal show the line in the curatorium. "Inadvertently" then all "free" decide as the line is specified. I know anyway: In fact, you like to hear this because it is your media-political understanding. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How were you?]] I can tell you a few cases from the past in which it was not – wanted or unwanted, but it was not. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Really?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: If, then unwanted!]] I'm just trying to find out that you're standing down and saying, This is depoliticization, and there only experts come in!, but in truth, it is exactly the opposite and everything works completely differently. But that does not seem to be enough, and that is why we are now considering the establishment of a media authority. I can only warn against this because I am working on a construction that ultimately looks like control and political influence on reporting. There is not in vain such a sensitive debate in this area. The next point is the question of free radios. Their attitude to Free Radios is extremely negative. There is, of course, a insistence on it, but I think it would be best for the coalition if there were no free radios at all. They should not have any material basis, nor should they have legal anchorage. One therefore has the impression that it would be best for you if they even disappeared from the media landscape. It is therefore quite restrictive to observe in this regard, and I believe that this will result in conflict lines not only taking place between opposition and government parties, but also across Austrian society, because there is a very critical and sensitive media audience, and it will react and will certainly not be so easy to accept. I think there's already a discrepancy to observe. As one who has always read Khol's writings with great interest and sometimes also had the honour of being invited to participate in political yearbooks, I would like to say: It would be interesting to discuss once again the difference between the theoretical "claim of civil society", as you, Mr Klubobmann Khol, have formulated it, and the practical implementation as it is now taking place. In my opinion, this would be an evening program. These differences should be worked out once to see the differences between theory and practice and between claim and reality. I am afraid that this is not a citizen, it is a scrupulous society. And we do not want to have anything to do with such a person.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16102	As the next speaker, Mrs Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16123	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Cap of the Federal Government is preoccupied with media policy, I must say: This accusation actually applies to his former State Secretary, Wittmann, because precisely the requests to be decided here today show that the then Secretary of State at the Federal Chancellor's Office of Wittmann could have decided on the measures contained in them more than a year ago. But he did not submit this legislative matter to the House for decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: The standstill in media policy has finally been an end to God. The legislative matter available to us today is adaptations to the EU's television signal directive. These adjustments are long overdue, and today's decision-making will otherwise counteract or withdraw from the ground threatening actions of the EU Commission. The content of today's applications is largely undisputed. These are provisions on freedom of establishment, protection of minors and the like. In reality, all of this constitutes a pure implementation of the relevant EU directive and was in no way disputed. What was really controversial in the Committee is the issue raised by Mr Cap. But I have to keep to him the following: This list will not be decided in the context of today's applications. What is decided today is only the obligation to take over the lists of the respective Member States and to transfer them into national law. I therefore believe that you could actually give your consent to this request, because that corresponds exactly to what you want. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The issue of the list – which contains events of particular social importance – will be addressed, as you will certainly know, in a separate federal law under which the list is to be adopted as a regulation. This law has been reviewed. In this respect too, the Federal Government cannot be blamed. There have already been preparatory work on this, but the former State Secretary in the Federal Chancellery of Wittmann has also not continued. The whole thing has been there for a year, and now it will finally be implemented by God accordingly. The review has already been completed, and I assume that Mr Morak will submit the relevant legislative proposal to us at one of the next plenary sessions. Mr Cap, you have also made a few comments on the ORF curatorium and on the "intimidation" of journalists. – I remember a board of trustees of the ORF, primarily represented by SPÖ secretaries. They are no longer represented, but now they are experts there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But now you have to laugh yourself!]] The media organization you are also addressing is not for discussion today, but there is also the way you know – you are usually very well informed – about the subject. It is also made by the State Secretary and by the Federal Chancellor's Office a very proper preparation of a corresponding novel or corresponding law. You were probably because You are very interested in the matter last Monday at the symposium, which took place with international participation in which the media organisation was discussed. And because you, Mr Cap, see the ORF and its objectivity in danger, I must resist you: There are also media institutions in Germany, and no one there is actually a lack of objectivity for these media institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is only the beginning of a development in media policy today. I and my group will be happy to give these draft laws the approval, all the more so than, as I mentioned earlier, it is essentially the implementation of EU directives. I also invite you from the opposition parties to give your consent. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16188	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16209	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We can only accept this invitation for approval on the part of the Green Club in part, only with regard to the television signal directive and its adoption. I can't really understand the arguments put forward by the government parties as to the time pressure and the need for European adaptation, because if you decide more or less an empty coat, whose content will or will follow later on – perhaps will follow – then I fear that exactly what would have been really desired, namely to present content and to make nails with heads will not happen again. Above all: I don't understand why that wasn't possible. The list of events not to be encrypted is also approximately known, and I therefore do not really see why the negotiating position itself is being weakened in such a way that one first creates the legal basis and then hopes that the negotiations can be conducted in such a way that an appropriate outcome can also be achieved. – This is therefore not only problematic from the course of the process, but also highly unskillable, because it does not strengthen its own negotiating position. In addition, we miss a clear legal basis and basis for non-commercial radio operators and programmes, so-called Free Radios, in particular in connection with the regional and local radio regulations. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The rules that are now being created are left behind by advanced European regulations, and commercial broadcasting providers are also very much in favour of the fact that, in the range of the offer, the contributions of non-commercial, free radios are also to be agreed that such contributions should be offered, and I do not see why you have such a shyness, which is finally legally guaranteed in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another criticism concerns how to deal with the highest court's findings. We have talked about this very often in this House. They put forward the arguments in the committee, they were about jobs, they were about continuity. – I can certainly follow these arguments, only: However, I cannot understand why this kind of legal treatment should be decided here. It is highly courteous – and I think that even the Supreme Courts will be able to make commercial arguments themselves – to provide their findings with an appropriate deadline for implementation. That is to say, it is not the case that a judge of the Constitutional Court immediately and per se brings an existing authorisation to an end, and I assume that the Austrian Supreme Courts are reasonable enough to be accessible to these arguments and that they will act in a way that makes them quite different whether they are formal defects that can be fixed or something which, in the opinion of the Supreme Court, is not fixable and should therefore lead to the termination of a certain activity. If regulations are now being created which actually make a Supreme Court pretty pointless, I think this is extremely problematic in terms of the division of violence and also of problems with regard to legal certainty in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude by referring briefly to the question of political influence. I think it's not just a perception of opposition parties at the moment that the government parties are really exploiting their influence on the media, especially on the ORF, in one way – you can't say otherwise. I find it particularly worrying, even if individuals are put under regular pressure or brought to such an extent that they are no longer able to carry out their activities more meaningfully. I think this is embarrassing if in a country a government with a parliamentary majority does not hold it if there are people who dare to introduce government-critical programmes at the public-law television station. The only "argument" that came in the debates of representatives of the government parties was: The Socialists did not do it any differently in the past either. That's what I'm saying: To bravo! That's a big reason: They've done something you shouldn't do, and that's why we do it to the square! – This is ultimately a bad finding, and I believe that this will undermine the position of public broadcasting as a whole. Not only do we register this, but these are circumstances that can be seen also by sending minutes and seconds, and by means of a more and more debilitating balance of reporting. I am not yet talking about incidents with which, in the run-up to critical broadcasts, pressure – this goes up to government members – is being used to try to turn off and turn broadcasts. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] As it was previously complained that the SPÖ’s secretaries were previously represented in the board of trustees, I would like to point out: Now there's a great improvement! The government parties are now represented by clubmen and national leaders. That's what I'm saying: To bravo! If this is the improvement of à la Blau-Schwarz, it really speaks volumes. And what is to be thought of as short-term curators like Mr Neuper, who apparently not only represented the case of the government parties but also strongly represented his own thing, I leave it to your own assessment. I'm just saying, It can be almost right for the Greens as a whole – as sad as it is – because obviously it is: The more time the FPÖ sends itself out with its own methods and its own people, the more it seems to get presented when it comes to the billing. And that's good!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16334	Mrs Petrovic's amendment to the Regional Radio Act is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Krüger. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16359	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! To my previous speaker only so much: I find it extremely unfair to claim that from the pages of the blue-black coalition some pressure on journalists, be it in the ORF or in the newspapers, without even being able to mention a single concrete example. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: I'll tell you that!]] That's actually the unfair thing about it. Conversely, there are – not what the Greens have reached, which are known to have very good links to the ORF, but what is happening to the Social Democratic side, which is represented here today by Josef Cap, who has also expressed his dissatisfaction with alleged pressure from the black and blue coalition. How else could it be explained that only in the recent history of the ORF, in the 1999 election campaign on the operation of the SPÖ in the "Euroteam" affair, a contribution that dealt with the activity of the son of the then Federal Chancellor climate and which was to be brought in the "time in picture 1" simply fell under the table? There are a number of examples, for example, from the point of view of Mrs Trautl Brandstaller, who said and even issued a decree in flagrant violation of the objectivity bid at the time: Inconspicuous action must be taken against the popular desire of the FPÖ "Austria first". Not least, the job situation at the ORF also provides a clear Evidence of where the actual influence came from and how it was exercised. One has really had the impression, Mr Cap, that a job rotation is constantly taking place between ORF and SPÖ. There, Mr. Seiler, the secretary of the then Federal Chancellor Sinowatz, suddenly found himself as a general intern, and I must tell you and admit that he is quite a good man. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: A good man!]] But still: This close link between a party and the public-law station – this would not be possible throughout Europe. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You are so for flexibility!]] But that wasn't an individual case. There were also this job rotation reversed, and for example the Secretary General of the ORF suddenly found himself as the Federal Managing Director of SPÖ. – These are just a few examples. In addition, there are the spats of the roofs, how close the personnel and also the relationship relations of SPÖ-mandataren or relatives of mandaters with staff of the ORF are. That's not a question at all, we all know that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So, please, let's not do that, not just because, at last, normal conditions have occurred at the ORF and intervention by socialist interveners may now not be accepted in this way, regardless of the fact that pressure is being exerted there! Mrs Petrovic: In full recognition of the constitutional law, you believe that these repairs to the Regional Radio Act are not necessary. The SPÖ has made a repair attempt, from our side has come a repair attempt, and you think that the Constitutional Court is already so wise not to recognize a suspension of the rulings, but to grant a transitional period. Mrs. Colleague! We are in the letters of complaint, and we are in a competition procedure, we are in a licensing procedure. Here, the decision of the Constitutional Court, provided that the Constitution has been violated, can only mean the withdrawal of the licence. That's not a question at all. And if you don't believe me, then believe me. It suspended the Constitutional Court, which in October 1995 suspended all licensing decisions of the then licensors, without transitional periods, so that at that time it was already possible for twenty million Schilling to be sued by frustrated investors. And now, of course, it's much worse, because many radio stations have already gone on air. In Austria it is, I think, 50, 55 radio stations, and I assume that about 40, 45 licenses were objected. The fact that there is a responsible legislator – and the SPÖ has also begun an appropriate attempt – is thinking, which is then, when removed, that is, I believe, only an outflow of the responsible activity, which actually belongs to the legislator. How does this solution look? – It is not very easy to admit, because of course it was easier to use a constitutional majority to secure the whole thing. So it has tried the Social Democratic side, but I do not think that this is a constitutionally correct way and, above all, a very dubious way of the rule of law. This is also reflected in the report of the Constitutional Committee on the request of Members Kostelka and Comrades. It says literally – the SPÖ wanted to put its determination in the constitutional order in order to make it a feast of appeal –: "In view of the implementation of general rules on the situation and the legal situation to be applied or of the effect of lifting decisions of the Constitutional Court of Justice, it is necessary to make these rules in the constitutional order." Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it's done! That would be a "government old", one would have a provision, knowing that it is unconstitutional, knowing that it would be repealed by the Constitutional Court, simply to lift it into the constitutional rank to withdraw it from the examination by the Constitutional Court. I think that the attempt of blue-black to bring about a reorganisation here with a simple legal regime is certainly a rule of law more inconceivable. I therefore believe that if the Constitutional Court – and after the decision on the matter of the Telekom-Controll-Commission has been taken on board – the decision to withdraw, on the basis of the amendment to the Regional Radio Act, the companies already operating radio stations have a real, realistic opportunity to maintain their licenses by means of further applications and thus to secure their pre-operation and, of course, the jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16429	Next came Mr Morak's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16450	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to express my thanks to the House for the present proposals for the initiative on cable and satellite law and on radio broadcasting: on the one hand, for the implementation of two European directives, in which Austria has long been sparse and no longer allowed time to be delayed, otherwise a complaint by the Commission would have been inevitable, on the other hand, because the government parties have found the courage to provide for the introduction of a so-called common interface beyond the implementation of the television signal directive. Austria is in good company with Germany, Greece and Spain to present a European trend that has already been shown by university professor Dr. Reimers by the Institute of News Technology of the University of Braunschweig, who predicts similar development for Europe as a whole and for the whole of the EU. I see the resolution on the Television Directive as very positive. As you know, last week the assessment period for the TV exclusive right law with the corresponding regulation, which includes the list addressed, went into the final phase. I believe that before the summer break we are expected to bring this as a government proposal here in the House. However, when implementing the directive, it is essential that we establish clear rules here in the field of teleshopping, labelling for youth-hazardous broadcasts, as well as the establishment principle and the admission of TV stations. A few words to the Regional Radio Act: The present request of the government parties ensures that all private radios can continue to be able to transmit even if they lose their licenses indebtedly. A new decision on the licence will be made within six months by the Regional Radio Authority on the basis of the current ownership conditions. This is far from the insignificant fact that the SPÖ's request for democracy policy seems to be worrying, also useful, since within the last two years there has been a great deal of activity in this area, say, the owners have changed and the watches cannot simply be turned back. A decision today on the basis of conditions that prevailed two years ago seems grotesque to me in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me say a few more words to the Free Radios. ==References====External links== In May 2000, the Advisory Board of Section II/8 of the Art Section, with representatives of the Association of Free Radios, made a recommendation for a funding of 1.18 million. In principle, I would like to point out that I have conformed to this recommendation. I have also stressed that the Free Radios are working on an exit scenario of the federal government because they are not manageable for the art section. In addition, I would like to remind you that there has already been no support for the Free Radios under the last Federal Government. In this sense, I am in principle in favour of the follow-up of this recommendation by the Advisory Council. However, following this recommendation and the debate I had with the Free Radios, I believe that they should work on an exit scenario next year in order to keep personal fates – circumstances that, if necessary, would lead to the case of a Krida – in order to give the Federation the opportunity to release the Free Radios with propriety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16510	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16532	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost funny to grotesque, how blue-eyed and unsuspecting, Mr Krüger gives himself as regards the exercise of pressure on media. Mr Krüger! It is well-known that your Klubobmann Westenthaler has intervened intensively hundreds of times in recent years and insulted the people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] There is x evidence for this, both in the electronic media and in the print media. There are dozens of statements from journalists who have been pushed into the tight and threatened by your current Clubobmann Westenthaler. Take note of this, Mr Krüger! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! I can provide you with another proof of media pressure. At least we didn't forget your storm at the Carinthian ORF Landesstudio when you said in a power rush there: Now we're here! Now we're doing the program! – You can ask colleagues Zernatto about the details, he certainly has not forgotten that. – So much for pressure on media, ladies and gentlemen from FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: ridiculous!]] In my short contribution, I would like to deal with that ominous list, according to which special social events of particular importance on television should be freely traceable, which should not be encrypted but generally accessible, so no pay-TV. This concerns skiing, football and cultural projects. Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Morak, has just said in his speech that the list contained in the draft will be the basis for a government proposal. This draft is also included in the Committee's documents. What are the events of considerable social importance, ladies and gentlemen? First: Summer and winter Olympics. - That's right. Secondly, The Austrian national team participates in the European and World Championships, provided that the Austrian national team participates in these games. – Unfortunately, this is more academic, but it fits. Then there are some other points that have to do with football, and then it comes: Skiing, ski club racing, which takes place in the following places – so there is no pay-TV in the following places: Kitzbühel and St. Anton. Mr State Secretary! What about Schladming? Does not the night slalom in Schladming have any particular social significance? . I have to tell you that the entire federal government has cheated there at the last night slalom. Or Semmering in the Styria? There's another World Cup race taking place. Why are these places not listed in the list, which with ten points contains, in some way, a taxative list? Or, Mr. State Secretary, why is the A1 Grand Prix missing in Spielberg in Styria? Why is that missing in the list? How can such a thing be? Is that a sloppy? Is that correct? – I expect a statement from you here and today. Is this a slutting, is it wrong, or is it a matter of getting exclusive rights, for example, from Schladming or the Grand Prix in Styria, the Austrian Grand Prix to abroad? What's that about? Is there anything that is not known here in the House? Is there any conversation with Ecclestone that nobody knows? – Mr State Secretary! I would like to ask you for information, because the Austrian sport public is keenly interested in it. Why not find Schladming and the A1 Grand Prix on this list? Mr State Secretary! If these things are missing if they are not mentioned among the events of significant social importance, then this is not a basis for a government template. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16594	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16616	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! After much discussion and discussion on the agenda items which have already been put to the vote, I would just like to address two points. With one of these billings we will increase the daily advertising times of the private radios from 120 minutes to 172 minutes. We are setting another act for private radios in order to ensure equal opportunities for the ORF. Private radios are already leading to new business start-ups in the service sector. In this context, I refer to a pilot project in Styria, where a radio service company was founded, which supports private radio operators in the programme strategy in the region, marketing, sales and legal matters. This will create competitive companies and new, forward-looking jobs. I really can't understand why or why Mr Cap comes up with the idea that the ÖVP wants to withdraw private radios from the basics of existence. Mr Cap! I would remind you that it was from the ÖVP that we have always supported the private radios, and that we have actually prepared their opportunity. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: colleague Frieser! You were never there!]] I now come to the legislative innovations that we will now decide to comply with the EU directives. This is especially thanks to our State Secretary, for he is the one who would like to add art and cultural events to this list. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Herzegovina! To conclude: I am surprised that you, as SPÖ MP, are insisting on integrating the A1-ring into this list, where your group in the country was always opposed to the A1-ring. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Are you for that, too?]] He was exclusively the merit of the state councillor Hirschmann, he has enabled this A1 ring. That is why I find it quite interesting that this is suddenly a concern for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16686	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall be voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we vote on the draft federal law, which amends the cable and satellite radio law and the broadcasting law, including title and entry into 133 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give a sign in this regard. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft law at third reading to have a similar sign. . I note that the draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law on the application of standards and television signals, title and receipt in 134 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this draft law at second reading to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by a majority. That is why we shall immediately come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to the draft law in question, to give them a positive sign. . I note that this draft law was also adopted at third reading. I shall vote next on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 133 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this resolution, which is annexed to the Committee's report in 133 of the Supplements, for an appropriate sign. – The adoption of this resolution shall be by a majority. (E 12.) I shall vote next on the draft federal law amending the Regional Radio Act in 136 of the Supplements. To this end, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional request. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. As Mrs Petrovic has mentioned, we have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of new points 1a and 1b and 4 above. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this supplementary proposal, Petrovic, to give an indication of this. – This is the minority. The additional request therefore did not find a majority, which is actually logical. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it to give a sign of confirmation. – I note that it was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. I note that this draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of the National Council's report in 137 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of these reports within the meaning of the request of the Constitutional Committee to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. 17. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Research and Technology on the proposal 126/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Dr Brigitte Povysilund Comrades on a Federal Law on the pricing of books (113 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16815	We can now move on to the 17th. Negotiating item on the agenda. An oral report by Mrs Papházy is not wanted. That is why we can go right into the list of speakers. First speaker on this matter was Mrs Dr. Believable. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16843	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This bill is a dramatic example of the inconsistency of this government's cultural policy. Of course, one can believe that a zigzag course also means movement, but to make this remarkable development, which this draft law has taken, comprehensible to everyone, I would like to report a few anecdotes from the committee. Originally, all the political groups represented in Parliament agreed that Austria needs a continuation of book pricing in order to ensure and guarantee the survival of small suppliers. In a relatively short period of time, there was a template which, except for certain minor shortcomings, was quite acceptable and desirable. It has proved that, as in many other cases, a review procedure has been carried out, because the review process has then introduced some positive points, such as the UWG complaint, in contrast to an administrative penalty provision, into this draft. But, see, 24 hours before the Committee meeting, an amendment by FPÖ and ÖVP was tabled, which made it visible that there were massive lobby interests behind it, because a very significant change was required, with the in-force steps of this law in the form still in place, to undermine the concept of book pricing, namely an exception to Internet trade. This was called for beyond all constitutional concerns. That's not enough. There was then a interrupt in the committee because the ÖVP did not agree internally. It was also noteworthy that the head of the Economic Federation, Mitterlehner, had given some support to the arguments of the Greens, while – and that was quite remarkable – the SPÖ, namely the cultural speaker Cap, supported this lobbyism by specifically supporting a single company, a single company that would have benefited from this provision, quite openly in the committee. From our point of view, the present draft law, with the exception of Internet trade, is to the utmost extent worrying. It is a book price fixing and at the same time a narrowing of book price fixing. If it does not, as announced, come to a zigzag course again and a further amendment is tabled by the Government, we will make this amendment and allow the exception to the Internet trade to be put to the vote again. It is quite compatible with EU law, there has been no reasonable argument in the committee negotiations why the domestic fixed price at the shop does not want to be equated with the domestic price over the Internet. This has nothing to do with trying to suppress the development of a medium of the future, namely the World Wide Web, in any way, but it is in no way justified to allow such different market conditions within a competitive market. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One can now discuss whether book pricing is an appropriate instrument for the next 10, 15, 20 years. This is quite a debateable point, and I think that in the next few years – the law is limited to five years – we will have the opportunity to discuss other redistribution models, so that diversity, quality and, above all, the survival of small bookstores in Austria continue to ensure that models are considered for this area. The fact is that Europe is going a different way, the fact is that a European book price fixing is being discussed, the fact is that there are these in Germany, and the fact is that Internet trade is also involved in Germany. The government's zigzag course on this point is truly remarkable. The proposal was welcome, but it has been changed in a very negative direction at the last second. I now expect a amendment from the government parties. If this does not come, we will re-establish this point of discussion. It is also very remarkable that the SPÖ – I know that not everyone in SPÖ sees it that way – has a very blatant support for a single company and that this personal closeness, which I would like to add here, is good enough for a "Lex Libro" so to speak. Again: One can discuss book pricing as an instrument, as an economic instrument for the next 15 to 20 years, but I think absolutely nothing of making individual favouring legal arrangements for individual companies that are not constitutionally sustainable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I appreciate the company Libro, I appreciate Mr Rettberg, I also appreciate Mr Lederer, but do not like it if a SPÖ cultural speaker shamelessly represents the interests of a company. I was disappointed that this happened in such an offensive way. I now expect the government parties to come up with this amendment. If this is introduced, we can agree to the bill and, at least for the next five years, we can use an economic instrument in Austria, which may ensure what publishers, authors and small bookstores want. However, I would like to discuss a new solution and further steps for the next few years. I believe that it is not done with this step and that further offensive, very innovative alternatives will be necessary to obtain diversity and quality in order to maintain the book of cultural heritage in Austria throughout the whole range for the next few years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16924	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e16945	Mr President. High house! I do not see any sense in deciding on a regulation which, according to the opinion of the constitutional expert in the Committee on Culture, will ultimately be unconstitutional, non-constitutional and then domestic discrimination, if it is, in fact, still a book price link with national Internet trade. The argument of the Constitutional Expert was that national internet bookshoppers are being discriminated against against foreign internet book dealers. That's fact one. However, the fact two are that if this regulation is still to come – I hear there should be a new amendment on the part of the two government groups – which will then also lead to a differentiation between financial and low-cost Internet book dealers and low-financial Internet book dealers. I already know that this is only one to two percent market share at the moment, but that will develop fairly rapidly in the next few years. Those who bring this regulation in favour of the financially strong internet bookshoppers. That is, in the end, some say that this provision has to go into, so that, by name, Libro is not favoured by the book price fixing for national Internet trade, although it is precisely this provision that leads to a preference of Libro. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In fact, this is the interesting thing because Libro is a financially strong Internet dealer – there are already some other wholesalers – and there is the possibility to avoid abroad and to organise the Internet book trade cross-border from there. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] - Just like that. This is absolutely protected and possible in accordance with the EU's competition rules, and it is also a horse-terrorist trick if it is still pointed out on the part of the two government groups that Germany and France should have considered introducing a cross-border regime in the Internet book trade – apart from the fact that this is only the European Parliament, and secondly, that is quite far from the reality of how this is being discussed at the moment in the Commission and elsewhere. In other words, we do nothing else – knowing that there will be and will be this cross-border Internet book trade – when national internet bookshoppers will also be consciously disadvantaged, namely the financial weaknesses, the little ones who may be able to make the necessary investments. This is a regulation against small and medium-sized bookshops in view of the perspective that they are changing on the Internet. Whether the authors are for it, they have to make up with their chairmen, that is even obscene to me. But this is a completely different chapter. That's where I ask the question, what's the point? In addition, the Committee on Culture originally decided on a joint proposal by the three parties, in which exactly this pricing arrangement for the national Internet book trade was not included – probably and probably considered. Then the representative of the Chamber of Commerce has been attacked and has not taken part in this vote. This seems to have been enough for Klubobmann Khol to motivate his club culture speakers again, because there is a change just because the Chamber of Commerce likes it. [[Abg. May. Frieser: No, that's too simple! No, that's too simple!]] - No, I don't. I can only say that is insidious, because you are blaming the bookshops and the authors for a reality that is not reality. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Since you are in opposition, you have been cut off from the sources of information! You don't know anything anymore! You don't know anything anymore!]] I wonder what sense it makes to make such a regulation, although I know very well, that will lead to the corresponding response first of all at the Constitutional Court and, secondly, only to the financial support of the internet bookstores. It's so obscene to me. We can in principle agree to book pricing because I also believe that we need a transition for two to three years. But if this supplementary request should come, we cannot accept it because it is precisely the wrong one and it is the wrong one to promote the wrong one. The absurdity of the discussion is that my previous speaker has said that she wants it in, but precisely because she wants it to be received, she supports exactly those who do not want to promote it. – She has to deal with her group. That's not my problem. What I still note with regret is the following: We would have liked to have released the public libraries, the scientific libraries and the school libraries. Unfortunately, this has not been possible. They are also subject to a discount limit. What I have also suggested is to question whether this obligation to store six months is not also discrediting small and medium-sized accountants. That was not accepted either. It must be a completely diffuse lobbyist culture, which is behind this legislation, because it constantly presupposes to do something good to the smaller and medium-sized bookshoprs, and in the final effect says that you must continue to bind your capital by leaving the books in storage for six months, and at all you do not have the opportunity to determine yourself in the internet bookstore. Europe-wide liberalisation in book trade is essential. That is why we are only more talking about a transitional arrangement so that this market adjustment for Austrian book trade is still possible. But this liberalisation is essential. One should simply speak openly and honestly to those concerned about it. I do not think anything of an interest-making policy, if one does not say how pointless some initiatives are, but leaves those concerned in the belief that one can do something – knowing that in certain areas the development in Europe is already another. That is what I think is irresponsible, and that is why we are being very differentiated on this issue today. But one thing should be explained by my interlocutor, namely why she first agrees with the Committee on Culture and then suddenly everything is different again. What happened? What brilliant lightning has come from heaven? Or am I right that it is enough when the Chamber of Commerce calls, and the whole force jumps in the direction the Chamber of Commerce wants? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Frieser.]] I can only say: Complementary to the representative of the Chamber of Commerce!, but I have to ask where the independent club, the independent group and the independent club chairman, Khol, are, if a brief thumb show of the Chamber of Commerce is enough, and if an amendment to the House is already confused, it may be empty, because it is only satisfying interests in the short term. I think that's unscrupulous, and would really appeal to you to think about it again. Maybe you'll think about it again, come down, have the additional request and say: Oh, let's let him, it's actually irresponsible when we do that! – Perhaps this is possible because your thinking process has already happened so often in such a short time that it may even happen now.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17034	The next speaker is Mrs Wolfmayr. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17055	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! You are right, Mr Cap, we are tabling a second amendment, which is exactly the one you have feared. I do not think that this solution should be described as unconstitutional or domestic discrimination. The argument as to how you put it, that Libro or the big corporations will manage to boot out the little ones in this way would have been equally leading from the other side. So I don't see the whole thing as you see it, and I don't see it as a lightning shot from heaven that suddenly changed us. You know, from the very beginning, we have tried to make the circumstances and those for which we have actually made the law a suitable law, knowing that it will be a transitional law. I knew it would come like this is going to be called the zigzag course of this government. I see this a little bit differently. I would have said that this law was certainly not an easy birth, and it was a very long and rocky path, which also did not begin in this period. The preliminary work of the previous coalition – I also call it the efforts of the former Secretary of State Wittmann – has also sensitized all interest groups on the subject and prepared the terrain, which can be said. Unfortunately, however, no conclusion has been reached, which has now been reserved for the new coalition. I have to say that I have the impression that it has been worked on very quickly, well and efficiently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] First of all, this was worked on by the State Secretariat in constant, very precise and differentiated consultation with Austrian and European constitutional lawyers, as well as by means of consultation – you are quite right – of interests of all sides and ultimately also through our quick response. One can say that the driving force was rather the cultural politicians, especially with regard to this last amendment, namely the involvement of national electronic commerce. The original proposal, which was first formulated in general, was amended and a more precise version was sought because there were objections from constitutional lawyers. First, we wanted to exclude electronic commerce – that is true – because we did not intervene in the developed e-commerce area and wanted to restrict ourselves to traditional, conventional trade, in the form of a safeguard provision. It is also true that the great excitement of the economic interest groups, but also of the IG authors, made us rethink this formulation again. Therefore, there is this second amendment, which will include national Internet trade, in order to avoid a disparity between the various distribution channels that are real in book trade. This regulation of our knowledge is not contrary to EU law. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about this law as a whole, of which many think, why there is so much excitement to such a small law at all. There are too many laws, we know, and we want to limit the number. But this is a necessary, small, slim, important law, grown up from an older and long-practiced, trade-tested handling. I'm a bookstore, I know what I'm talking about. Nevertheless, it is a transitional solution – of which we are aware – a bridge, a transition. It is not about tomatoes, cars or other ordinary goods, consumer goods, but about a cultural property, a capital goods. With this product book, we are at an interface, on a dangerous divide between thought and matter. That is the fundamental problem. We are in the middle of a development from the old to the new media, in a rework, we know. In many areas the real book is now replaced by the virtual book, by the text on the screen. Nevertheless, I believe in a future of the book – in spite of all the conflicting forecasts – because this sensual experience, which we all have repeatedly conjured in the committee, is a pleasure for a friend of books, for a reader and for all people. I think that will continue to exist. Perhaps the bookstores will come up with new forms, they'll be quite certain. However, I believe that both forms can exist side by side: the classic bookshop may be in another, modified form, but also, of course, trade over the Internet as a new, fast order option with great choice from home and from the dealer. There will be a lot of trade in this regard. I'm saying there's no Either-or, but a both-as-ouch. Both have benefits and appeals. It is an extension of the possibilities and not a restriction. This law on book pricing is also not a restriction, but a prudent order of legal conditions under the current circumstances. In this second amendment, I do not see any reluctance to the pressure from the outside or from the economic side, but rather to adapt the law to the current situation, to a situation in which there is a change. The law was intended for certain groups, namely for all those who have to do with the medium book. We wanted to create a kind of tailor-made suit – perhaps this is also a female approach. Laws are there to help and support people. If the law doesn't fit, then you just have to change it until it fits. I believe that this has been achieved: satisfaction by all those who have to do with it, and that is the most important thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I know it is likely that this Austrian book pricing law will not last forever – we have limited it to five years – that is an illusion that we can maim, but it will fulfil an important function that will enable all to change to the new situation, not suddenly after the 30th century. June, but over the next five years. I very much hope that it fulfils above all this function of guarding and rethinking also for trade. It is simply a matter of co-design and self-setting on these new market conditions, of learning to live with Internet trade and with e-commerce. So I see this finally successful installation of the law above all as a clear cultural policy sign, which is set by this government at a time of economic and economic rethinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17137	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17159	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! To the Price Engagement Act: You can even wonder why I make a price fixing in a time like today. This causes a certain dissatisfaction at a time when liberalisation is being liberalized, in the boundaries in which free competition is actually the subject. Why am I the price? Why don't I even liberalize? – Our access to it is to liberalize a good that is not a commodity but a cultural property, namely the book. I brought you two books. I do not know if you knew that Parliament's library was founded in 1869 and that it contains 300,000 books. This book here is the oldest book – from the time of 1720 – that can be found in this Parliament library. [[The speaker keeps a book up to date.]] If you put on the first page, you can see that it is a book about the most prominent basic laws of Europe – something that fits our time with a beautiful cover. But also the second book I brought you is beautiful and shows that the book was not mass goods at that time, but elitist good. [[The speaker keeps another book up to date.]] You can see a beautiful cover of a book that was created around the turn of the century and was moved. This view that the book is cultural goods and not goods is very slow to join all of Europe. In the Colloque de l’économie du livre dans l’espace européen, which will take place in Strasbourg in September 2000, all EU Member States will discuss the national and non-governmental rules governing book pricing in Europe. This more than 100 years of the cross-border book price link between Austria and Germany has brought us a variety of publishing, book-trading and book-markets that are unique throughout Europe. We have the largest number and variety of books in German-speaking literature, and that is exactly what we want: the diversity of the book. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We want everything to be achieved with us: the classic, the best-selling, the lyrics, the somewhat sprinkling work of the young author, who has not yet been laid out, which is not yet calculated in the edition, but simply needs support. All this is what we want to get. But we also want to get something else, something that you all know, namely the flair of a real bookstore, a bookstore in which you can still browse, in which you can forget the time in which you can forget the world, and also the sensual experience that I can still have when I take a book into my hand or when I make a particularly beautiful book. This will be given to me by Mr Cap, who has also argued that he feels this certain sensuality in the book. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And with the French red wines!]] It is therefore our concern to maintain the small and medium-sized bookshops with this law, and to prepare and convert them to the new market situation in a five-year transitional period – and there we were all d’accord. And one of these new market situations, which we discussed most, which often changed again, is book trading on the Internet. Still, as you said, he is only about 2% of the current bookstore, nor can I personally, when I delete the screen of the PC, have the same sensual experience as when I delete a book, but maybe it still comes. In the age of Cyber-Sex, it may be possible, Mr Cap, that when you buy a book or when you trade a book, you can generate quite different feelings. One of the best known Austrian weekly newspapers has tested Internet providers. Seven Austrian and five German online bookshops were surveyed. Conclusion of the entire action: Shopping on the Internet is an interesting because new but not yet cheaper and faster alternative to conventional sales in bookshops. But still, no question: Virtual book trade is a new trade route throughout the book trade. And we have not really made the discussion about it – and you can confirm it to us all – easy. However, we have finally come to the conclusion that we also need to include the Internet in the pricing process, because, according to the principle of equality, all distribution channels within the book trade must be the same. And that was also the question of the constitutional situation: There are for and against any regulation, but the distribution channels must, as well as the Constitutional Service, comply with the principle of equality. And something that I have argued so many times, but you do not want to hear, Mr Cap, is to be taken into account: 80 percent of the books published in Germany are traded in Austria. If we hadn't priced the Internet in Austria, the German online dealer bound in Germany would have had the free market in Austria and could thus ruin our market economy. And he can't do that anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Cross-border e-commerce has been regulated throughout the EU since the beginning of May of this year and deals mainly with legal and consumer issues. And here I come to the last link in the book trade chain, namely to the consumer. As we all know, the consumer is the one who stimulates the book trade. He is the one to read, he is the one to buy the books. Books are adventures in our minds, and if they are not in our heads – even we all know this saying – then they are nowhere! – You all know how relaxing it is, just after a session like today, when you can "roll together" and read a book somewhere. Or as children from the loan library, as well as my child today, you all dragged the books home. That is, we want to achieve – and that is what we have made our goal – that books are read, that books are affordable and that they are still available in all their diversity. That is why we have also included the discount scheme in our law. After a long discussion with all those involved, with the authors, with publishers, with dealers, with consumers, we tried – and we did not make it easy, as we said – to create a law that preserves the old that goes into the new situations of the present, leaving all the possibilities open to the future. I would ask you to support us in this effort, and I would like you to continue to enjoy reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17249	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17274	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the present proposal for an initiative sets the end to a development that has been intensively occupied by this country and its cultural creators since Austria's accession to the EU. I would like to lose a few words about Genesis of this law: The accession to the European Union made the system of cross-border book pricing subject to European competition rules mandatory. The European Union decided in January 1998 to initiate an official appeal procedure for the abolition of cross-border book pricing. The Commission's action at the time was strongly criticised in the so-called Vienna Memorandum on the initiative of Austria under the participation of Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands in an intergovernmental resolution. However, in November 1998, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the Commission to adapt its Community policy to cultural needs and to allow for the continuation of pricing. In January 1999, the EU Ministers for Culture adopted a resolution calling on the European Commission to take into account the special importance of the book market for culture and the special value of the book as a cultural object in the context of the culture clause of Article 151 of the Amsterdam Treaty. Finally, in January of this year, the book trade associations of both countries, Austria and Germany presented their final compromise proposals, each with two national book pricing systems. This compromise proposal was made by the Commission's letter of 8. On 1 February 2000, it was assumed that all cross-border elements which would be suitable to affect trade between Member States would be eliminated. ==References====External links== In March, the end of the transitional period by 30 March. In June 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the I am pleased that, in cooperation with the political groups in the Committee on Culture, it has been able to draw up a solution in a short time, which will allow this deadline to be observed and, in the field of book pricing, a continuity over the 30th century. June, say: 1. July to ensure this year. A few points to the cornerstones of this law. First: Due to the important problem of imports or re-imports of books for Austria as opposed to Germany, this regulation could not be made by means of a contract, but only on a legal basis. Secondly, The law should be designed in such a way as not only to ensure the production of high-quality content and a comprehensive supply of the population, but also to ensure the inventory of many small publishers and bookstores as far as possible. Therefore, the discount was also set at 5 percent. Thirdly, It seemed essential to me to take into account the dynamic developments in the book market, which have led to completely new distribution systems in recent years, and not ad infinitum, as it is the book price binding, into account. That is why I am glad that my proposal to extend this law for a period of five years has received broad approval. In the field of tension between the cultural property book and the possibility of free competition and the same market opportunities, the present initiative proposal seems to me to be a reasonable compromise. I would like to mention what has already happened in the discussion: At the last EU Council of Ministers for Culture, on 16 November. In May of this year, the French Minister of Culture, Tasca, took place from 1 May. In July of this year, the Presidency held the Presidency in this body, explaining the problem of the cross-border inclusion of electronic distribution systems in book pricing at European level as one of the main concerns of the French Presidency in the field of cultural policy. We will pursue and, if necessary, support this project and the efforts of France from Austria. If the initiative launched by France were successful, the amendment to the second reading today, which would include domestic Internet trade in book pricing, would also be European-wide. I would welcome the fact that this proposal for an initiative is as broad a majority as possible in this House. I think it would be a signal in view of the fact that it is possible to find a broader agreement in the area of such sensitive matter as cultural policy beyond the two government parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17341	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kubitschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17362	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Morak personally for informing the opposition and the social partners of this book pricing law, and for including some of the suggestions in the considerations. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For more than six years now, book pricing has aroused the moods and, in part, very intense, and in the course of time I have actually become increasingly convinced that this is almost a kind of war of faith: the apostles of book pricing against the heretical officials of the Directorate-General IV of the EC Commission, who actually believe that books are basically nothing but goods, and that therefore they are quite normal entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! I recognize myself as the great majority of people who believe that they should protect and promote the cultural heritage book, whatever it is. But I also recognize the very small minority, I think, in the German-speaking area, that book pricing is not necessarily the appropriate instrument for that. Ladies and gentlemen! So I go out here as a critic of book pricing, which is difficult enough because we are immediately suspected of being the graves of the book market to stay with Mr Ruiss, who is known to all of us as spokespersons of the IG authors. However, I would like to bring here some critical theses. Point 1: In my opinion, the book pricing system can only meet the goals set very inadequately. The system of a fixed charging price is intended to achieve a whole range of objectives. It is to be achieved that the publishers, with the higher prices of the bestsellers, cross-subsidize the prices for culturally valuable books. The aim is to secure authors' incomes by linking them to the overly fixed shop prices. It will also be achieved that bookstores are promoted with a high quality range and that there is a comprehensive supply of quality books for the population. Finally, it is also to be achieved that consumers can purchase quality books at low prices. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to the publishers whether they want to promote culturally valuable books or whether they prefer to credit the profit to their account. I don't necessarily believe in the good in man when it comes to raising profits. It would also be easy to link authors' incomes to publishing prices and increase the percentage accordingly. Of course, large customers receive a high quantity discount, which, at a fixed shop price, simply leads to the large trading chains being the ones that make the big profits, regardless of whether they really promote the cultural goods book or not. With the comprehensive supply of quality books to the Austrian population, it also does not look particularly good, at least no better than in countries that do not have book pricing. I would not necessarily say that the readers of this system have something because they pay excessive prices on the one hand and on the other hand are affected by a very strict, now slightly evasive discount ban. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to come to thesis two: Cross-border pricing systems are contrary to EC law. This is actually not a thesis, but it is a fact, because the Commission has informed the main association of Austrian book trade exactly what it has in a letter. This does not mean, however, that the European Commission's competition politicians are all disbelief cultural banauses, but they free us to promote and support books and bookshops in any way possible, but not in a single way: not in the form of a cross-border pricing system. The problem is, however, that the main association of Austrian book trade wanted to implement, which is why we now have a law that sets out a cross-border pricing. I'm going to point 3. In my opinion, it is not possible to have everything in life. That is to say, this law can either be contrary to EC law only and for that purpose establish the cross-border book price fixing or be in conformity with EC law and abolish book pricing. The current law, ladies and gentlemen, contains a clause that states that the prices different from the usual purchase prices may be passed on to the customers. This means that the law can certainly keep it before the European Court of Justice, precisely when it is interpreted very far, then if the large trading chains, which can achieve correspondingly high volume discounts, can also pass these discounts on to their customers, then if this fixed charging price is removed de facto. Our position on the Internet has already been carried out by my colleague Cap. I would perhaps just like to mention a few brief aspects. It is important to me to stress that trade in books on the Internet currently accounts for one percent of the volume of trade. The law that we will decide will be in force for five years – and I do not believe that this period will bring about such huge growth rates on the Internet that the entire conventional book trade would be virtually abolished. That is, I mean, that this instrument could have been used in a dangerous way to promote this new technology. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that other countries also do not live in the age of cultural stone. I do not think this law is particularly imaginative and I also believe that it is at least worrying in the Community, but I see this law, like some others, as a transitional solution and as a further step or other opportunity to give the book trade in Austria the opportunity to adapt. It is clear that book pricing will be abolished at any rate – sometime in the near future, but in no later than five years. In any event, it would be important to use the time this time to correct other alternative instruments for post-book pricing time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17435	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17456	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This proposal for a law has the purpose of legally anchoring the binding of prices for books throughout the Austrian federal territory. The alternative to that which nobody would like in this House would be the complete release of prices, i.e. a complete market liberalisation. The Austrian book is to be protected as a cultural property with this measure. The Austrian publishers and also the Austrian publishers are given a five-year transitional period to prepare for market liberalisation if a pan-European solution which the Secretary of State has already addressed fails. In Germany, the Council of Culture already stressed in February the preservation of book pricing at national level as a great victory for culture and also stressed that the diversity in bookstores was no longer at risk. It was said literally in a broadcast: The publishers and bookstores now have to decide for themselves whether or not to sacrifice this unique variety of national and international concentration processes. - Quote. The present legislative proposal also takes account of the European Commission's demands, as it has clearly stated that the previous cross-border book pricing agreements are not compatible with Community law and are therefore not compatible with Community law until 30. It would have to be put out of date on June this year. We all know the history that forced the Austrian legislator to act. In 1993, with the action brought by Libro, the book price fixing became increasingly a source of tension, namely, on the one hand, with the book as a merchandise and on the other hand with the book as a carrier of cultural values. In 1996, it was clear that the EU Commission would no longer approve the cross-border pricing of books in the German language area, which means that another exception to the provision of Article 85 of the EU Treaty was no longer necessary to prevent competition from being hindered by price agreements. In January 1998, the Commission officially initiated proceedings. There were letters of warning to the Austrian and German bookshops. In November, the Commission presented a study to the Union's Ministers for Culture, which rejected transnational pricing as an inadmissible price cartel. Last summer a compromise was reached for the first time. The European Union has found that it would not intervene in two national book pricing systems, which was also recognised by the new Commissioner for Competition Mario Monti in February this year. Why was the legal book price fixing sought by us and not, as Mr Bartenstein originally suggested, a contractual arrangement? – The most important reason is that, with an import share of more than 80 percent of books published in Germany on the Austrian book market, a law on the reimport of Austrian publishing products should be preferred. The goals of the book price fixing can only be achieved for Austria if the German publishing products are also included by binding the final selling price in Austria. Only a legal regime is also appropriate, according to the European Commission, to "guarante the protection" – as it is called there – of "the mandatory cultural requirements". Less intervention, such as a contract, was not possible, especially because the Commission has announced that it would prohibit any cross-border agreement in this area. Now on the question of the so-called Internet trade. It is true, as Mr Cap has said, that we in the Committee on Culture have met with other conditions and were in favour of the exception of the so-called Internet trade. But I think it was a Social Democratic Chancellor, namely Sinowatz, who once said: It's all very complicated. – And this matter is very complicated in some areas. We have a lot of conversations after the 23rd century. May, i.e. after the last meeting of the Cultural Committee, has been led to believe that the different treatment of traditional book trade and the Internet book trade in Austria constitutes an unequal treatment which could have been charged to the Constitutional Court with a good prospect of success. The e-commerce Directive, which regulates Internet trade at EU level, states that it will not be permitted to include cross-border e-commerce in a national regulation, especially because such purchases are considered to be direct purchases by consumers abroad. There is nothing to be changed about this. However, EU law does not contradict a system that involves a price-fixing of state-owned Internet book trade. We are – and I am now concluding, ladies and gentlemen – aware that this draft law is a compromise between the various interests. However, we consider him to be quite successful and hope that this will also preserve a piece of Austrian identity.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17517	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17539	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Right ahead: National book price fixing on a legal basis should be supported in principle and approved in any form. I believe that we have succeeded in finding a solution based on a compromise, but that is only the second best solution, because I still believe that the current solution, namely the cross-border book price link with Germany, would be the best solution. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In Genesis this debate on book pricing is about a little more than just the protection of the book in the home. It is also about protecting the cultural heritage at European level. In fact, Article 151 has been inserted into the Treaty of Amsterdam because cultural goods are to be treated differently from goods. It is expressly stated that culture should be taken into account in every field of policy. Article 151 should therefore also be applied to the application of Article 85. It would be good for the European Commission to think here that cultural goods in competition must be treated differently from normal goods. Lobbyism in this direction, this awareness-building, with our stubborn attitude, has succeeded in carrying the cross-border book pricing at European level, so that I believe that at European level a partner has been found with the French, who is also able to continue directing the policy that cultural goods should be acted within the Union under particularly considerationable circumstances. That means that it would have been possible for the first time to give meat to this cultural paragraph, so to speak, and indeed to provide it with content. I therefore believe that we can quite agree to this compromise; all the more so, as one of the first statements made by the Secretary of State, he meant that national book pricing was a social democratic relic that was no longer necessary. I am glad that he is now taking up this "social-democratic relic" that there is an initiative that revitalizes this relic, which, as it were, protects it for another five years. I mean, we're on the right track. [[Complementary of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] Personally, I believe that all activities and initiatives that protect the Book of Culture must be supported. I consider this compromise to be very supportive and a sign to the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17587	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote on the draft law in 113 of the supplements. Mr Povysil, Mr Wolfmayr and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. I therefore begin by voting on the part covered by that amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Povysil, Dr. Wolfmayr and comrades have tabled this amendment concerning § 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment concerning § 1 to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. . I note that the remaining parts of the draft law are unanimously adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to the proposal at third reading, in order to give a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. I note that the proposal was also unanimously adopted at third reading. That is what we have done in item 17 of the agenda. 18. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (23 of the Supplements): Protocol pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union concerning the scope of the washing of proceeds in the Convention on the Use of Information Technology in the Customs Sector and the inclusion of the official label of the means of transport into the Convention and Declaration of the Republic of Austria (114 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17655	We come to item 18 of today's agenda. We are immediately entering the debate as there is no wish for reporting. I give the floor to Mr Deputies. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17689	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the adoption of this Protocol, we are making two major improvements: firstly, we are creating a level playing field from the data categories as regards the customs information system of the First and Third Pillars, and secondly, this will enable more efficient persecution of serious violations in the field of money laundering. Since I have very little speaking time at my disposal, allow me to explain very briefly what it is about. The customs information system is operated and maintained by the Commission, but the Member States – we are an EU Member State – decide which data will be recorded and which will not. Now it had to be noted that there is a difference in the data collection between the First Column and the Third Column. There is no essential addition, namely the recording of the official label of the means of transport. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to give your consent to this government proposal. We thus create an improved opportunity to deal with organised crime. I think that this is in the sense of all the parties here in the house.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17727	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. After another speaker, the vote will be taken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17748	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Mr Schwemlein's remarks are concerned, there is not much to add in itself. Time's pushing, you're right. Ladies and gentlemen! Crimes only have a meaning if, from the subjective point of view of the criminal, there is the prospect of success and if the profit that the criminal expects can actually be used. That's what it's all about. Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, we have the following problem at the moment: We have the problem of making billions of revenues in US dollars in international crime as far as drug crime is concerned. However, there is still the problem of arms scrapping, with a huge amount of money being done with uranium or plutonium smuggling. With regard to the problem of trafficking in girls, which has not yet been discussed here in the house, it can be said that very, very much money is in circulation and will be washed again to get it so to speak. And you must not forget the protective pressure. All these are areas that actually represent international crime, organised crime and can only be answered internationally. On the basis of this knowledge, there have been, in the framework of the EU since 1995, essentially, Mr Schwemlein, I do not correct you, but I only endorse - three agreements. The first agreement dates back to 1995, which provides for an EU agreement with the Member States on the use of information technology in the customs field. However, this only deals with money laundering in the area of drug money. That was a mistake, one should have acted more comprehensively at the time. The second agreement was reached in 1997. This is the customs information system in which data-aided processing of information on persons, goods, businesses and means of transport is regulated. This is new now: In the future, data on means of transport, including the markings of the vehicles used, will also be fed into this system, as will the trends in fraud practices, the availability of expertise, mode Operandi et cetera. The third agreement is Naples II, the 1998 agreement on the exchange of information on the washing of proceeds from all customs infringements. Ladies and gentlemen! We should change that in this regulation today, in this protocol. I also say to you that the figures we have to write in Austria are worrying because in 1999 alone more than 2 billion schillings actually flowed in the field of money laundering. In 1999 it was 2 billion schilling, in 1998 it was still 1.65 billion schilling! And there were 208 suspicions in 1999. I don't want to bore you with statistics unless I might try to give you a very up-to-date note. When, in January of this year, a woman tried to work in a banking branch in the 1st century. Wiener Gemeindekreis removed over 109 million schilling from an account that had been blocked since the Gulf War, because the bank of course informed the EDOK accordingly, just as it is planned. The lady who wanted to fix the money is said to be a suspected member of the Abu Nidal terrorist organisation, the wife of Abu Nidal's Chief of Finance. A court case has been initiated against the woman, and at the moment she is on her feet. The tomorrow issue of a daily says that there is obviously a suspicion that justice could capitulate and that the intelligence services would be very massive at work. I hope not. As a Member of this House, I think that justice must be on the hat and that we must also prevail in this regard. Only one information on the edge: The EDOK has determined in Switzerland and it is hoped that the same organization has 500 million Schilling on a bank account in Switzerland. Switzerland has been able to reach a compromise, which I believe should not be the Austrian way. Switzerland has said: Let's do half-half: 250 million for the Abu Nidal group, 250 million remain in the possession of the state of Switzerland. – This procedure would not be mine. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe and hope that all political groups will be able to agree to this procedure today and that this agreement will once again allow us to make a snap of international crime. In this sense, I ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17811	The next speaker is Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17832	Mr President. Highly esteemed Mr. Federal Minister for the Interior! High house! My two previous speakers have already reported on the most important things in this context, things that I believe can be fully agreed. This is an extension of the customs information system, which already refers to the two areas where changes are taking place. The whole complex is very important for the fight against organised crime, and I would just like to say in terms of content that the scope will be of great importance in particular. I would like to stress that I absolutely do not think that access to this system should be restricted to customs administration alone. Rather, it is very useful for all the forces of the security authorities to have access to how this should be the case in the Schengen information system. Therefore, the request to the Federal Minister for the Interior to take advantage of this opportunity to create clear conditions for access rights is now limited in the Schengen Information System for Customs Administration. In any event, I believe that if this information system is fully implemented, it would be very useful to give both areas access to use synergies and thus create optimum conditions for the fight against organised crime. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17865	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. We now come to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Interior to give approval to the conclusion of the present State Treaty and the Declaration of the Republic of Austria in 23 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the conclusion of this State Treaty to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously approved. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 of the Federal Constitution that this State Treaty is announced in the Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish language versions by making it available for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who accede to this decision to give a sign in this regard. – This is so decided – against a voice. That is the point of the agenda. 19. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (110 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Foreign Law 1997 and the Criminal Code (116 of the Supplements) 20. Point Report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft federal law amending the General Social Security Act (117 of the Supplements) 21. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Terezija Stoisitsund comrades concerning a federal law on the entry, residence and establishment of foreigners (Fremdengesetz 1997 – FrG), BGBl. I 75/1997, as amended by BGBl. I 158/1998 (118 of the Supplements) 22. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Terezija Stoisitsand Comrades concerning a Federal Law on the Grant of Asylum (Asyl Law 1997 – AsylumG), BGBl. I 76/1997, as amended by BGBl. I 41/1999 (119 of the supplements) 23. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Terezija Stoisitsand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the entry, residence and establishment of foreigners (Fremdengesetz 1997 – FrG), BGBl. I 97/75, amended (120 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e17979	We come to points 19 to 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Schlögl. The clock is set to 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18005	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fight against towing was a central focus of the work of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior in recent years. We Socialists are deeply convinced that together we must make every effort to combat this most unworthy branch of international organised crime. Ladies and gentlemen! Our task must also be to make sure that towing is no longer worthwhile for those who make profit from the distress and misery of other people. That is why it is very important for us to do everything we can to prevent greed and profit-seeking by individuals from putting other people at risk in their health, even their lives. That is why we Social Democrats agree with all those considerations that are going to take action to ensure that this terrible business is put to an end to the inhuman practices of tractors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must do everything we can to meet the perpetrators, but not the victims. The tractors of today act like the traffickers of yesterday. That is why we have already significantly increased the legal criminal provisions in this area in 1997. I believe that it is now time not only to introduce further intensification of these sanctions, but also to make a clear appeal to the Austrian judicial system, to actually exploit the legal framework for criminal proceedings which is already at the disposal of the judicial system. In the past, there have been enough towing processes in which this legal framework has not been exploited. I therefore stress that it is very important to take greater advantage of this framework in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it must also be made clear how necessary and important border protection is. Austria has established a border service in recent years to maintain orderly means of moving to Austria, which is internationally best recognized and has proved its worth. It is the task, yes, the obligation of policy and of the Minister of the Interior responsible for this, to make every effort to ensure that the Border service will also have the necessary resources in place in the future in order to be able to operate successfully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! It would be an illusion, however, to believe that the only way to cope with the problem of international tow and illegal migration to Austria or Europe could be by strengthening the criminal provisions, with the best possible monitoring of borders. – This can only be part of the measures. Of course, it is also crucial and important to do everything – this is a common challenge for all countries of the European Union – so that the economic, political and social situation in the countries of origin of the displaced is changed in such a way that illegal migration is something that is no longer necessary for people in these countries. However, it is also important that an international information campaign is launched or continued by Austria that people in the countries of origin are alerted to what they expect in Austria or Europe when they come to us illegally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's not easy to meet the tow-insanity with mere repression. To believe that would be an illusion and would ultimately only lead to the price for the towed, for the victims, even more being raised. That is why we Socialists say a clear yes to tougher penalties, but at the same time say that, in conjunction with this, there must be an international information campaign, such as that already launched in Austria in the late autumn of last year and implemented for the first time in Romania, also in the future. We also say that we in Europe have the obligation to help change the economic and social situation in the countries of origin of these people in such a way as to make illegal migration no longer, or at least not, to the extent that it has been. However, it is also important for us to say clearly that unnecessary hardness must be avoided. I therefore also believe that the objections of the Director of Caritas Vienna, Michael Landau, must be examined very carefully, which in this context warns against the danger of the criminalisation of family members. Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate, however, it is also important, as I believe, to discuss a number of points in a very detailed way. There are, for example, a number of requests from the Greens, which are rejected by the Socialists as a whole, because we believe that their implementation would lead to a weakening and a false path in Austrian foreign and asylum law, but we still believe that some of these demands and concerns of the Greens are important and necessary in this package. In my opinion, therefore, the path of dialogue in the field of foreign and asylum law, as started by the establishment of a "round table" by me a few months ago, should continue in the future. What we Socialists strongly reject is the increased possibility of residence permits for seasonal workers and harvest workers. This is where you operate purely client policy from the government parties by preferring a particular professional group with your policy. But this will harm Austrian workers. There are major job problems especially in the area of tourism and tourism. I therefore think it is wrong to increase the number of seasonal workers. In addition, this would promote wage dumping, something that we Social Democrats cannot carry in any way. That is why we are also proposing an amendment which I should like to make: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you give your consent to this amendment, we will today be able to support your initiative to change the right of foreigners in sub-areas. However, I would also like to point out that the right of foreigners and asylum, which is a very good law from 1997 as a whole, is in need of innovation and change in some areas. And this should be discussed in a broad dialogue between all social forces, all non-governmental organisations and all political parties in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18119	The amendment, which has just been referred to, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18144	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Our dedicated Federal Minister Ernst Strasser has declared the fight against organized crime, especially the tow industry, and we from the Austrian People's Party support it, this federal government of course supports it with this new bill. This amendment is urgently necessary, and I am pleased that Mr Schlögl confirmed this earlier. This law novel is based on an existing, very good foreign law and constitutes a measure against the most hideous and inhuman forms of organized crime, which is increasingly spanning the whole world, especially the Western world, with crimes such as drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, but also economic crime. The aim is clear: There should be consistent criminal proceedings in the future; in the past, there were almost only administrative penalties in this respect. So now punishments for up to ten years of imprisonment are possible, in the event of fatal outcome or abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! And something else: All forms of towing will be legally punishable in the future and will be prosecuted. And that seems to me to be particularly important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This law is also intended to bring about harmonisation with relevant laws in neighbouring countries. And there is also a particular need to observe that there are special difficulties in Italy, for example, in relation to the "blue border". Once someone is in Europe, then, as it were, all borders are free for him. It is also to be emphasized, ladies and gentlemen, that legal criminality has already been given in the basic case – an objective in order to get better hold of this form of organised crime. I agree with you, Mr Schlögl, that there must, of course, be cooperation and coordination with other European countries, in particular with Eastern European countries, from which particularly illegal emigration is taking place, which is also towed. Austria is in a geographically particularly exposed situation, and with us there is an almost huge increase in towing. This year alone, 3 637 people were detained in our country, and 1 476 cases of tow activity had to be recorded alone in this short period of time. Ladies and gentlemen! That alone is enough reason to oppose this massively! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The situation of the victims is really unfortunate. It is the poorest who are really exploited by criminal organizations. These people sell all their goods and property at home, most of them are also involved in the relationship, and they deliver themselves full of tow organisations or individual tugs, especially with the promotion of all their finances; they are also indebted to have to pay back once again in any work in the West. These poor people are stifled into illegal means of transport, often with their whole family, with small children. In part, they still have their eyes on death! A truly tragic and unreasonable situation. That is why we have to signal from Austria that tugs have to be expected from us rigorous penalties. This acts as a signal, even if, of course, we cannot prevent towing exclusively with strict laws. But such a signal that in Austria the tractors, the tractor organization, have to expect hard criminal prosecution, is necessary. And this is precisely what happens with this law decision today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now to those, ladies and gentlemen, who think, as the Caritas has already formulated, that in this context the "belonging privilege" is particularly important. There has also been no "belonging privilege" in the past – this has to be said here in the middle of the order. Mr Schlögl, you know that. It will be necessary to ensure that those who are already in Austria – a parent, for example – who then catch up with children and women and have no asset advantage by applying § 42 of the Criminal Code, that the division is, as it were, asserted and that there is no debt or only minor debt. So all these legal possibilities in case family members are reclaimed. In principle, I would like to say that towing must of course remain punishable – even if someone pretends to have reclaimed his family. Colleagues of the executive, who serve at the border, always remind us that some illegal cross-border cross-border cross-border, the tractor, claims, it is about his family, even if it is by no means the case. – You also have to face this and check it every single case. In any case, Federal Minister Strasser is a guarantee – I can say this in a calm conscience – that there will not be any prosecution in the case of family follow-up, including via tugs. Ladies and gentlemen! This new law is a particularly necessary measure against international crime. I would be pleased if we were able to reach a unanimous decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18241	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18262	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Murauer, I cannot do this favor to you. In my opinion, in some way you are putting up very questionable theses about limiting tow crime, namely by means of criminal law, and then somehow say so angelly, you hope that we all will agree here. [[Abg. Murauer: You will not support the tow! I can't imagine that!]] I am in constant amazement and amazement again and again, as the Christian-social politicians of the ÖVP – that is what is moving me again and again, especially since the new Chancellor, he always has the preaching of the mountains on his lips – all of this on a Christian-social series. [[Abg. Murauer: It depends on how you interpret Christian-social!]] Not I have to quote Caritas Director Landau today, but today – and somehow it is curious how times change – Karl Schlögl the Caritas Director said: [[Abg. May. Schlögl: An old friend of mine!]] We really have to take this very seriously. Mr. Federal Minister out of service! I can't remember that at the time you were responsible for this project, among other things, you would have ever given the Commissioner Strasser so intense a right to the Director of Caritas and took his warnings seriously. It's clear you hear the warnings. They're all listening. We also hear the Stoisits when they speak in Parliament, and this is also heard by the liberal Members and the ÖVP MEPs. But that's how times change. Therefore, I turn to the Christian social politicians again, where I think that these appeals may have a meaning. Not that I think Schlögl doesn't mean this seriously, but now he no longer has the chance to prove it in the form of an implementation. Minister Straster can do this. Mr. Minister! I said this, I mean, in the security debate at that time: I appreciate your positive statements and positive opinions published in several newspapers on the harmonisation of the general rules on foreigners, not only of the Foreign Law, but above all of the employment situation of foreigners. I appreciate this because I share your opinion with you a hundred percent. And I would appreciate it if you were able to take implementation steps in this direction now. In the same way, I appreciate the fact that you have taken over Mr Schlögl's statement of "integration instead of new immigration" because it has a lot of truth in it. I refer to the guiding principle that those who are here should get the most support and actually have an integration possibility. Immigration policy is one of them solved. But if I look at today's novel to the Foreign Law, I have to say that there is not even the remotest indication that it is being implemented by the Social Democrats only in the remotest way. It's really much more angry. Even what the Constitutional Court in the Xenophobia Act has recognized to be unconstitutional – it has therefore recommended its elimination – is only half-hearted. It is bizarre and more than worrying how to now § 28 para. 2 novelles, just because you have to, not voluntarily, Mr. Federal Minister. That would be a very simple thing in itself. The simple thing is: An adult who has a residence right in Austria should also be able to transfer it to his child. However, it is according to Austrian law that a child, in which case a baby, depends exclusively on the mother's right of residence and was before the Constitutional Court has intervened. Now go here and come to a construction that I really think is incredible, and say: Yes, it is, unfortunately, unconstitutional, that we would otherwise have done nothing, but it is unconstitutional, we comply with the mandate of the Constitutional Court. Now it is said that the right of residence can be derived from both parents, but it is derived from the person who has only the right to care for the child. In my opinion, this is another sign of measuring family unity by two measures. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It depends on whether it is a domestic or a foreign family. Especially the Christian-social politicians here are all the time talking about how important the family unit is and how important it is that fathers also care for their children. But this is a provision – I am now telling the colleague here in the House – which is precisely promoting the dependence of women on men. And this is a solution that requires a lot of legal imagination to carry out an order from the Constitutional Court in such a embarrassing way. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It may be that this now holds in front of the Constitutional Court, but in the sense of the family unit and in the sense of a family concept as you have it, he is completely opposed. Now I'm coming to the tractors. Ladies and gentlemen! If anyone still believes today that the intensification of the sanctions for tow crime is affecting the towing in any way, now in a positive or negative way, he only needs to look at the experiences. Mr Murauer and Mr Schlögl have already mentioned how the figures in relation to towing have increased. Since when has the tow crime increased that way? – Since in reality – and I say it very dramatically now – there has been a subsidisation of the tractors by the Austrian state. In recent years, measures have been taken to protect and depend on the protection of an EU country. These are drawn to an blatantly higher extent than ever into the hands of tractors and thus into the price-driver. So believe. Are you serious, Mr Murauer, that these provisions, which are now being proposed by you, everything under the title of harmonisation with neighbouring countries, will take effect? They never say which neighbouring countries are harmonised with. There are only a few and not all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kiss: Of course: Spain, Germany, Italy!]] There is one reason why this ugly and truly loathsome organized crime with trafficking in human beings is so high. This is because there is now a drop in the price. This particular dependence results from the EU's policy of decomposition towards the East. [[Abg. Murauer: Your suggestion: no penalties!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you seriously believe that global phenomena such as illegal migration with the means of criminal law and criminalisation in this form can only be somehow addressed, then I do not know where you live, at least not on earth. These are true dream men's ideas, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Murauer: What is your proposal? Let's make a proposal.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The colleague has made applications! Maybe you can read!]] That is why I am very much with Mr Caritas Director Landau, who wrote it to you in the main book. But Unfortunately, you don't have a parent book, that's the problem. He warns you about the criminalisation of family members and believes that you should not leave those seeking protection alone and not criminalize those who give protection, as he says. There may be a massive criminalisation of relatives, but I hope that solutions will be found in this regard. I only remember the crisis in Kosovo a year ago. If an Austrian guest worker from Kosovo has sent money home so that his parents, brothers, sisters, relatives can be brought to Austria to be safe here, then he would be a criminal after what is decided to do here today. Then he'll be punished. [[Abg. Murauer: This is your diction! There you have to see how much money he sent down! You didn't want to read that exactly!]] This is not my division, Mr Murauer, but that is the wording of the law. This is the will of the legislator, and I do not want to belong to this legislator, Mr Murauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18414	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18435	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's really hair-shattering what Mrs Stoisits gives of her. Of course, Mrs Stoisits, if you completely free the border crossing, then there is no towing. [[Abg. Murauer: You could also release the theft!]] Similarly, if you release drugs, there is no drug crime. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] It's the question of whether we want to do that. We certainly do not want to open the borders so that everyone can enter Austria unhindered. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the Greens: Who says we want to?]] Neither do they – I am very happy. I mean, there's a great consensus right now about the tow. Everyone here, except perhaps Mrs Stoisits, has seen that it is really one of the worst exploiting criminal acts to promise people, prefer to have a nice life here with us, to bring them all their wealth, to throw it into the throat of the tow, and then not to worry about these people at all. Ladies and gentlemen! The industry is flourishing. I picked out a few press releases from May this year: 8. May: 26 illegal Iraqis come across the burner, paying 3,000 to 5,000 dollars per person. 13. May: 22 Iraqis over Tyrol, 5,000 to 6,000 dollars per person they pay for towing. 17. May 29 from Restyugoslavia. 20. May 14 from Moldova. 21. May: 28 from Romania over the Burgenland. 23. May 11 from Afghanistan on the Burgenland. And you could go on with that. Every day and every other day comes a similar number of people. In 1999, 13 000 were towed. This means that there is an acute need for action. We have already pointed out in the law of the Foreign Law that it is actually a paradox to punish only those tractors who bring more than five towed persons across the border. There has never been any reasonable reason for this numerical restriction. We are glad that the whole tow is now under judicial punishment. That's something positive we're doing to fight the tow. Of course we also know that now will not end with the tow. But just as it speaks about where you get along on the border, where it is particularly easy to get across the border, it also speaks around when a country does nothing to fight the tow, and does nothing to bring the tractors to court accordingly. A sensitive punishment will prevent some tractors from continuing towing. Mrs Petrovic has already been in the committee and Mr Schlögl has said here today that the situation in the countries of origin must be dealt with. Of course! Mrs Petrovic said that the lack of prospects for accession in the East would cause people to come to Europe, to Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the EU's most few enlargement states from which people are dragged in, but it is people from Iraq, Afghanistan, from much more distant countries who can be dragged here to Central Europe. Their countries of origin will never come to the EU. That is why it is certainly not the lack of the prospect of accession that causes people to emigrate, but the situation in their own countries. We need to improve the situation. But I mean, it's also an illusion – Mrs Stoisits himself spoke of the dream, of the dream country – if we believe we can improve the situation in all countries of the world. According to a communication from the International Refugee High Commissioner, 40 million people are looking for a new basis of life. Of course, they do not control all Austria, but a significant part. We know what size we have to deal with. That means: Change in the situation in the countries, yes, but we cannot be the global improvers as a whole. And yet we certainly do not improve the situation, Mrs Stoisits, when we get well-educated, mobile people to come to Austria and live here, but we improve the situation when we bring these well-educated people back to their homes so that they can participate in progress in their country so that they can make progress there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, there are few instruments against the tow, except we follow Mrs Stoisits's advice that we should set the limits. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: She didn't say that!]] Of course she said it! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No, no, no!]] Indirectly, she said: She said if we have the borders, the border posts, then there will be drags and tugs. I believe that it is extremely important that we do not take into account the fact that there is a towing activity to an unimaginable extent. I am really glad that the SPÖ today agrees that it has also changed its opinion. Mr Schlögl. You're right: The courts should also use the legal framework. Just, I'm telling you from my experience as a judge: No judge shall take advantage of the maximum legal framework as long as it concerns an unpunished person. And it's mostly unspoiled because they arrive under a false name because they don't check their identity at all. That is why they will never receive the highest penalty because they are never considered to be pre-punished. Minister! Deputies! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we really don't need, these are NGOs that are still behind the tractors. I refer to an event within the Helsinki Group, in which Mr Ofner Disputant was together with Mrs Stoisits, together with Mr Posch. There Michael Genner, a representative of the "Asyl in Emergency" association, said: What we need are more tractors, better tractors and cheaper tractors. Secondly, he said it was scandalous that the criminal provisions should be tightened. Mrs Stoisits has given Mr Genner the right to speak at this event! And Mr Posch, Member of the SPÖ, has not distanced himself from this. We really can't need that! I think that you, too, must look into your own political groups and see that something is changing. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Stoisits put the Sermon on the Mount and put the Bible into play. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] It has addressed to the ÖVP the question of how it can connect all this, tow and so on with its Christian social world view. I'm also quoting the Bible, Mrs. Stoisits, and that's where it says: "Give to God what God is, and to Caesar what Caesar is." But that means nothing but that the state can build and establish a legal system and that the state can also demand that all adhere to this legal system. That is why your sayings and your opinions are that you have to do something for the tractors, quite simply wrong. Each State has the right to seek, according to its social values, to comply with this rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18539	Mr Dietachmayr spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18560	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, a change in the foreign law, as my previous speakers have already pointed out, is to be supported, as the current practice that tugpers are partly given administrative penalties is not sufficiently effective against this exploding branch of crime. I would like to deal essentially with another aspect, namely the § 9 of the Foreign Law, which is intended to do nothing but facilitate the reception of seasonal workers. So far, there has been the possibility of the establishment regulation to be adopted by the Federal Government and approved by the main committee within the framework of the seasonal regulation to be adopted by the Minister of Economic Affairs. However, the establishment regulation now provides for the possibility to provide a second framework for the employment of harvest workers. This means that the harvest workers who can be employed for up to six weeks are no longer included in the normal seasonal quota, but are also employed. In the final result, therefore, the number of people employed as seasonal workers increases. When you count both sums, I mean that it was taken too high! Increase from 5,000 to 8,000 and add 7,000 additional harvesters – this is clearly too much for these industries. It is also known that seasonal unemployment is relatively high in these sectors. I remember a number: At the end of May, 30 000 people were still unemployed in tourism. Ladies and gentlemen! The need for the use of foreign harvest forces is undisputed, but not to the extent that it is now to be claimed and decided. There is another point which seems to me to be very important. In the course of the negotiations, the government parties submitted an amendment which provides for the exemption of the harvest workers from statutory pension insurance. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you should still consider whether you really agree with this request. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this legal provision is likely to be unconstitutional. Apart from a deep intervention into the social security principle, which is based on the solidarity of all workers, the draft is subject to a clear non-constitutional nature. Foreign harvesters do the same work as all other foreigners and foreigners, even if they are only employed for up to six weeks. The fact of short-term employment alone does not justify such inequality! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] Even if the general principle of equality in the Federal Constitutional Act applies only to citizens, the Federal Constitutional Law on the Elimination of Racist Discrimination prohibits the inequality of foreigners among themselves. Moreover, this exception from pension insurance for short-term working conditions applies only to agricultural workers who are to be classified as foreign-law harvesters, as you call it, but not to foreigners with normal seasonal permits or other employment rights. So here, too, an uneven treatment, which I believe is also unconstitutional. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: These are only bordermen who come to work on a daily basis!]] This also means that you are creating a prejudice in the field of agriculture. It is expected that once this stone is rolled, it will also be possible in other areas to obtain derogations or similar "lightening" – under quotation marks. Ladies and gentlemen! Remarkable is also the time when you plan this change and when you want to introduce this change. Even now, where efforts must be made to raise funds for pension insurance, pension insurance contributions are not included. And the Austrian workers, who are already the sufferers of globalisation, pay the bill again. That is why we will firmly oppose social democrats from any deterioration in the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18613	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18634	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It was already apparent in the Committee that these important materials are being strongly debated. It testifies to the quality of government work that problems that arise are simply addressed and resolved and not pushed forward. The Government template brings a number of amendments and changes. Most of them have already been referred to. I would particularly like to address you, Mr Dietachmayr. In your contribution you have referred to the seasonals, the harvest helpers. They spoke of constitutional concerns. I mean, you could see these things quietly, too. What's this about? – It is about the fact that the regulation has worked correctly with the seasonals to date, and these quotas have also been negotiated in the way of negotiation. They were used exclusively where we did not receive workers in the country. This is in the economic interest of the people. To date, you have carried this as much as we have considered it to be right. Now we are talking about another segment, namely the harvest helpers. Where does the theme come from? We do not have a sufficient number of employees today for the introduction of the harvest of different species – despite the greatest effort. [[Abg. Leikam: But we always had!]] [[Abg. Gaal: It was enough the years left!]] Moreover, there is such a scheme for harvest workers not only in Austria, but also in other EU countries, Mr Dietachmayr, you only need to look beyond the borders. [[Call the SPÖ: Exploitation!]] This has nothing to do with exploitation! Mr Collegue, look at the following: People are paid correctly. There is a collective contractual arrangement. Why are you getting upset? [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] In Germany, these short-term employees are exempt from all social contributions. We have announced that these short-term workers pay contributions to health insurance, unemployment insurance and accident insurance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Do you know why we made it out of pension insurance? - Because we're giving them the money. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: But you don't believe that yourself!]] We believe that there is no point in a pension payment because these employees cannot derive entitlements. So you could also see it from this side, quite normal, without any special excitement. Please also bear in mind that if we bring in the harvest properly, we can also supply the raw materials for the manufacturing industry and secure jobs there for the downstream areas. Please see it without emotion, see it nationally, see it needs-oriented, and you are dealing with the subject much, much easier. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There is no such arrangement, which you find only in Austria, but also in other countries. [[Call the SPÖ:Where? In which countries?]] [[Abg. Kiss: In Germany, in Italy – at our large EU neighbours!]] And another thing: Think also of the people who like to work with us and bring the money they earn here home to their area, strengthen their families with it, improve their income. These are all positive measures that you, I think, could look at. In any case, we consider this scheme to be a major step forward, a significant improvement in the labour market situation in Austria. That is why we will agree because we believe that it is a good approach and a right decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18769	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18791	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My colleague, Mr Térezija Stoisits, has already said the most important thing about the changes in the fight against tow. What you will achieve with this regulation is the greatest support for the heads of the tow straps. You will increase their income to the immeasurable, and you will fuel this area of crime in a way that more people become victims. They always ask about the alternatives of the opposition. I read it to you in committee – you did not want to hear it at the time. I'll tell you again. These are not green theses, but perhaps you will deal with the security reports of the Institute for Security Research of the WEU. They warn against this type of exclusively criminal fight against towmaking. You have to take different measures. You have to cooperate with those people who are the victims of tow, and you have to do something against the backgrounds, against the economic causes of tow, because otherwise you too do only the business of tow straps. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is not possible!]] Make this happen They are almost legitimate in complimenting these activities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Be realistic!]] – Realistically as the WEU Security Institute, perhaps you give faith. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... Dream country is this!]] With regard to the rights of residence for children, there is indeed a rigid regime, and apart from the lack of Christian foundation of this attitude, it is not in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. So why Article 8, namely freedom in private and family life, so that in families the partners themselves can agree their living conditions, should not apply to foreign families, you must first explain. And why you create two categories of family, apparently only from a blue-black ideology, legal is that not deduceable from it. But the real point to which I would like to comment also concerns harvest workers. I share the constitutional concerns that have just been raised, because this will allow for the first time a wage dumping by law. There would have been ways of resolving this by constitutional means. However, if one comes to the Committee only at the last minute and apparently with very, very bad conscience with an amendment that is used in social security law – almost at the last minute, so that we simply do not have to let it be assessed – then this procedure alone testifies to your bad conscience and to the lack of solidity of this intention. Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, this proposal corresponds exactly to what the liberals have requested almost ten years ago, namely in 1991 – at that time it was still encountering unilateral rejection by the government parties – to introduce a time-worker model without full social security. That was Question 96/A (E) of 27. ==References== I thought there would be no such thing in Austria – at least under this government, in which I had a lot of criticism, even in the foreign policy of social democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's it! Germany – and there are the greens in power, red-green! And in France – there are even the Communists on...!]] - That doesn't make it better! This charge ultimately means the legal anchoring of the wage dumping, the creation of different classes of workers and also an intervention in the fairness of the economy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I emphasize: Aids for a limited period of time, for a holiday period, may need many industries, which may also require private households. But how did you work with au pair forces, with students who might have needed a job temporarily in the summer holidays to finance a language course, a training? – This, of course, falls under the full hardness of the law, under the full social security legislation of compulsory insurance. Only for a very specific economic sector and de facto only for Eastern Austria – for you have said it is about frontier workers – is now an exception created. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because the harvest requires such a thing, Mrs Petrovic!]] With this, you break the Constitution in several ways, as you introduce an industry-specific exception from the social security obligation. Why? With what reason? The temporary... – There is a need in many sectors in summer to temporarily recruit additional people for a few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because the harvest requires such a thing, Mrs Petrovic!]] So this is inconceivable. But above all seem It is now also easy to ignore the provisions of the Constitution on the federal territory as a single economic, monetary and customs territory. – Do nothing, do nothing to you, and you don’t seem to care that it’s also about people and they also have their life plans, which may come here after a six-week stay, that they want to do it more often. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You better plan it if you have more money!]] They also create a new demand, they tear families there, they leave all social burdens in the countries of origin. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You don't have to come!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No one is forced!]] – No one is forced. What I found particularly worrying: They give a morning gift to certain economic sectors and thus break the constitution with nonchalance, without asking. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But go!]] But I also ask you: Why was it not even possible for the members of the Committee on the Interior to hear a statement from experts? Foreign employment law is all a matter that is now part of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. I have asked several times to tell us how the representatives of this department have commented on this. We were then informed in the committee that officials will only be heard if the member of the government present in the committee wishes to do so. And the Federal Minister did not wish for this to be given a statement by the specialist office. That alone, in my opinion, reveals your bad conscience about this procedure. This law really breaks down every legal framework. [[Abg. Gaal: A disgraceful course!]] I hope and wish that this law only has a very short life span.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e18984	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19008	Mr President. High house! Mrs Petrovic has claimed that in the future there will be only one sector for which there will be an exception from the pension insurance obligation. I really want to correct that. There are also sectors in which this exception exists, for example, for lawyers, who have been exempt from some 3,000 cases since 1945. They are also affected by Austrians. [[Abg. May. Worm: But not for life!]] In addition, there are other exceptions to social security law, which could also be explored. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: ( towards SPÖ) Look out!]] I would just like to say this correctly so that there is no contradiction in the room that there is an industry in which there is such an exception. Rather, there are already dozens of exceptions in our social security system! And if you really meant it honestly, you'd have tried to fix it a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19065	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19087	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present draft for the revision of this Xenophobia Act has become urgently necessary. The legislator – and we are known to be – must respond to changed conditions. And that there are changed circumstances, one can see from the statistics and the figures of the past years. It is simply not meaningless when the statistics explode. In 1999, the authorities registered 15,796 cases of tow and illegal border crossing, and in 1998 they were still 9,105 official acts. That means an increase of 136 percent within just one year, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In 1993 there were 351 tugs displayed, in 1999 already 2 949. This is a huge business for organized crime! That is why we must act. It is a command to act in this regard! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! 42 000 people, tractors and illegal border workers were stopped in 1999 – over 42 000! This is as much as the largest city in a federal country has even inhabitants. And, on the other hand, you shouldn't do anything? You're supposed to pretend nothing happened? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Stoisits wants more!]] . I will come back to the comments made by Mrs Stoisits and Mrs Petrovic anyway. Anyone who wants to show responsibility must agree with such a new law immediately. The practice of towing must, yes, be intensified. Ladies and gentlemen! A view over the borders is not so harmful at all in times like this. Let us take France as an example. France is a country where President Jacques Chirac is very careful to see whether there is xenophobia or racism in Austria, whether it is flourishing or not. A country like France has much more severe criminal threats than we have at present. There are up to five years of criminal punishment, ladies and gentlemen, for the simple towing activity, which is still only an administrative offence with us. As we are particularly hostile to tourism, the following quote has been put forward: I understand the anger of the family father, who works as a minimum wage earner, about his foreign neighbor, who lives by social assistance, especially if one still sees the noise, the smells that are used to him. [[Abg. Oils: Smells can't be seen! Wrongly quoted!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If this had been said here in the House, we would all have been quite right to shake, tossed and upset. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We've heard that many times!]] Do you know who this quote is from? – French President Jacques Chirac! That is why I expect objectivity from the Greens in particular, that the rulers also have a position on it, and not always only half-quotes that we have used liberals, are misrepresenting somewhere. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As we are with you right now, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and especially Mrs Petrovic: There is an uncanny chapter, this uncanny chapter is called "Woman Petrovic and the Caritas". Mrs Petrovic, better said the Caritas – Mrs Petrovic always does it anyway – has made a move against the government in an unprecedented offensive against the government. [[Abg. May. Worm: Which government?]] – Against the existing government, that is clear! Caritas Director Küberl says in an article of the "profile", the law novels presented by the government – about which we are discussing here – are massively contrary to the spirit of the Geneva Convention on Refugees: FPÖ and ÖVP deliberately violate the Geneva Convention. That is the statement of this Mr Küberl, actually, ladies and gentlemen, an immeasurable one from the Caritas. In the Caritas newspaper, Mrs Petrovic is then given enough space or space that she... – A so-called NGO, yes, yes, the "unpartial" and we are always attacked by. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: "Unpartisan" NGO!]] In the recent issue, Mrs Petrovic is still given enough space to say that the FPÖ is now a party in the government that has pursued a het policy against non-governmental organisations. – And this is a Caritas magazine, ladies and gentlemen! It really can't be that way. Mrs Petrovic, the patron saint of the Caritas! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... Don't write to Mr. Landau in the main book?- Oh, my God!]] The Caritas, however, is not well advised, because it is under observation with its political activities. And such an unwritten leaf is the caritas, my dear ladies and gentlemen, not. I remember the action "Streetrunner" and quote: "One of the largest addiction toxins in Lower Austria..." in January of this year " went over the stage in Traiskirchen. The special deployment group... and Gendarmerie officials stormed the refugee home and accommodation of the Caritas in Maria Enzersdorf, as it has just been known. ... "Only two days before access, the head of the Caritasheim caught black Africans in a room check, as they packed addiction in bullets," says an investigator." The Africans approached the woman and pushed her aside. - Quote. But I have other examples. According to "Standard" of 28. May 1999: Drug trafficking in the dozen! – In a large-scale official act, suspected drug dealers were also arrested in the homes of the Caritas. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This has even admitted to Mr. Schlögl!]] Or, 26. August 1999: An inconceivable scandal! – At that time, a social worker working with the Caritas has smuggled Kokain, Ecstasy, Speed and Hasch in the value of millions of Schilling to Austria. ==References====External links== In October 1999, an article on two young black African drug dealers, one of whom is housed in a caritas home. [[Abg. May. Muttons: After something like that!]] Or it is reported by a Liberian, who was a false age in the care of the Caritas. The "Kurier" also reports on dealers who reported working as colporteurs in the Caritas project "Megaphon", or, for example, in connection with a drug razia on the subway, that two suspected drug dealers were quantified in a caritas home, and so on and so on, continued at any rate! This is the face of the Caritas. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: A "beautiful" government partner has the ÖVP, the Christian ÖVP!]] And the face of the Caritas is also: The Caritas condemns the Razzi against black African drug dealers! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, she condemns the raccia against black African drug dealers, especially as these, according to Caritas, have been carried out as a political consequence of the Omofuma case. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Is this another attempt to maintain the sanctions?]] – In view of this, I really do not understand how the original self-understanding of the Caritas has become such a thing. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law is necessary, is important and applies – and this is important – especially as regards the accommodation of illegals, which should be punished, for everyone, but it also applies to the Caritas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19261	The next speaker was Mrs Pfeiffer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19299	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First, a sentence to the harvest helpers. [[Ongoing calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: She said yes! Is that included in the Minutes?]] We are not generally against harvest helpers. My predecessor, Matthias Achs, has every year demanded that the quota be increased, but that it be increased by four times, against which we speak. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Why do you argue against an increase?]] – I can’t get into a discussion now, my speaking time doesn’t allow it. May I continue my remarks? We'll talk about it later. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We will ask the axle!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A great deal has already been said about towing, and I would also like to say a few sentences. These towed people come mainly from economically poorer countries. The Golden West is being speeded ahead of you. They sell all their property to pay the high price for the tugs, which has already been mentioned. The suffering and exploitation that befall the affected people are incredibly humane. It is particularly tragic for the victims to be children. In the municipality of Gols, a five-year-old boy from Afghanistan recently died of a heart attack. The investigations are already under way, we'll see what's going on. He was accommodated according to the relief, i.e. the accommodation is made in restaurants instead of in the drawer. And this example is a substitute for how immature the existing system is, a system that highlights punishment and not the assistance that would be very, very important in it! I would like to address another important issue, namely trafficking in women and girls. Every year, around 500 000 women and girls in Europe are lured or dragged away by violence for the purpose of sexual exploitation with false promises such as job offers or marriage offers in EU countries. The trade in women is extremely lucrative for the organised crime, but, unlike the drug trade, it is much less risky. In particular, drug trafficking is a criminal threat for up to ten years, but the maximum penalty for trafficking in women is set at only two years. And there, too, one should talk about the dimension of punishment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This cannot, of course, be an effective measure to combat towing, since it only combats the symptoms and not the causes of society. Rather, it would be important to pay more attention to prevention and to make the procedures more effective. For example, information actions in the countries of origin of the tow victims would be a sensible prevention measure. But also the economic support of the countries concerned must not be forgotten. Finally, this means that the fight against serious crime must also address the fight against social and social roots. I have mentioned the death of the little refugee child, who has caused shock in much of the population. Whether and what misbehavior has contributed to the tragic death of the child is to be investigated, and there should not be any unwarranted pre-conceptions prior to completion of the investigations. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19419	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by the honourable Members. Posch, Mag. Prammer and Mag. Plank is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiation. Mr Donabauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please start playing the claim.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19446	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Pfeffer meant she didn't have anything against the harvest workers. - That's my honor, Madame! However, they claimed that the quota would be increased by four times. That's wrong. Rather, it is true that the term "consumer" is being reintroduced.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19479	I call Mr Puttinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19515	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am also allowed to deal with the amendment which amends Sections 9 and 18 of the Foreign Law. This takes into account the fact that the provisions on the labour force potential simply did not meet the requirements of the economy, tourism and agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it should be noted that the revision of § 9 of the Foreign Law introduces two completely different labour market statuss. It is simply completely incorrect simply to speak of the seasonals or only of those forces whose working relationship is ultimately regulated in § 9. § 9 para. 1 regulates the so-called seasonals, which we have always had, and § 9 para. 1a explains the newly created harvest helper status. In this context, we must address the comments made by Mrs Petrovic and, of course, by Mr Dietachmayr. For example, there was the claim that harvest workers would be downgraded to cheap workers. And Mrs Petrovic has claimed that the government would deliberately dumping wages – for profit for the Austrian economy and finally for the federal government as well. I would like to reject that. I think you all know that the harvest workers are only short-term, often only for hours in Austria, that they can be used quickly, that they are often at home overnight and that they are simply not available by Austrians. [[Abg. Leikam: Cheap and quick to get away!]] Although you are insured in Austria, you are insured with accident, social insurance, but please think about one thing: How could this harvester possibly have a pension claim? You know very well that the minimum contribution monthly rate is 60 months, and these 60 months only apply if a case of invalidity occurs. Otherwise, you need 180 months. Go through this! The 60 months alone are 40 years as harvest helpers. So if you claim such things as you do, I really think that's a bit funny! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Slaves!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In contrast, we have the regular seasonals, Mr. colleague, whose rights are clearly regulated: full Austrian social security with all pension rights, with everything you can only think of. You know very well that we need these people, because otherwise many professions could no longer be practiced, whether in the specialist sector or at the end of the day, even with auxiliary workers. If you read tomorrow's "Kurier" – you always worry so much about the labour market – you find it a bit interesting. Have you read the "Kurier" of tomorrow? Do you know what the Wifo writes in it? Can I read it to you for a minute? [[The speaker opens the "Kurier" and reads from it.]] For example, it says – I quote – that: "In this respect, additional foreign professionals could be loosely handled at present. Also the government's planned increase in the seasonal quota for tourism and agriculture, in parentheses: Harvest workers, do not present a problem for the labour market at present." - Quote. If you don't believe this statement, and still say: Much too high, much too much, and we don't need it politically and economically at all!, then I can't understand either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A short view of Salzburg. We had 165 seasonals last summer. Today 260 were approved, around 210 more we sought. We could need 600! I am convinced that today's government will finally allow the quotas that we need, and that we will not have to go back to the Social Ministry, so to speak, so to speak, in the kneeling, where the Ministry of Social Affairs is not at all capable of deciding, but must first be heard by the trade union, so that the Ministry of Social Affairs can grant additional labour. My dear friends! I am glad that it is finally possible to eliminate this inconsistency, which we have always faced in this area to this day, and that it will finally make it possible for the economy to breathe freely even in the season! I am also glad that the state is finally getting those means that have missed it because we have not been able to employ these forces so far! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19594	Mr Reindl is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19615	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A long-standing demand of the liberals is on the agenda today in this House, namely the call for an amendment to the tow regime, Mr Leikam. [[Abg. Leikam: Harvesting helpers for the police!]] - No, we don't need to. Thank God. An effective border protection and a consistent criminal prosecution of the tow industry, in order to successfully combat towing, are already set out in the ÖVP FPÖ governance programme and are, of course, also implemented – according to the motto: Promise and also held! Towing is a particularly loathsome form of crime, in which the death of towed people is obviously taken as a risk. If, in accordance with the provisions of § 104 of the Foreign Act 1997 until now, only the existence of a breach of administration constitutes a violation of the law, and if up to five of those who were towed have so far been punished only by the District Administration Authority, then, in the future, the towing will generally be punished. High house! Considering that nearly 16,000 cases of tow and illegal border crossing were registered by the Austrian security services in 1999, it is necessary to note that this is an increase of 136 percent in registered cases compared to the previous year. A total of 42 812 people were stopped in 1999. This corresponds to an increase of 117 percent compared to 1998. Therefore, draconian penalties for the tractors are more than justified. Ladies and gentlemen! These figures show that Austria is particularly affected by the phenomenon of illegal migration due to its geographical situation. Almost daily, the media report illegals being brought across the border by tractors. Thus, the applicable criminal provisions have proved to be non-practical and not appropriate. That is why all the criminal frameworks are now being raised. In principle, towing will be subject to a term of imprisonment of up to one year. In qualified cases, prison sentences of up to ten years are likely, for example, if the act results in the death of the stranger, or for those persons who, in conjunction with a greater number of people, are responsible for continuing towing. It is noteworthy in this context that the so-called liberal United States of America for towing, if it is associated with a serious injury of the body or the risk of life of any person, provides for prison sentences of up to 20 years. Mr Mainoni has already referred to the relevant criminal provisions in France. High house! The fact that towing has become a very lucrative business can already be derived from the statements of the expert Gridling in the Ministry of the Interior, according to which all those cases of trafficking in human beings, which are known to be active in Austria, are counted with more than 100 million schilling. According to press reports, worldwide towing is expected to generate sales of around 100 billion schillings. These are sales, as they are otherwise only done in drug trafficking. According to these reports, 300 000 S must pay to the tow. 50 000 S pay people from Turkey. 30 000 S pay those people who are brought from the Balkans to the seemingly rich Western Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! Many towed ones give their entire savings to the tow, and then suddenly comes the disillusionment. They are picked up at the border and rejected. The tractor has put the money in, is over all the mountains, as you say in good Styrian, and is already preparing its next tow tour. These unscrupulous tugs are doing millions of business at the expense of mostly poor people who have promised a slaring land. High house! With this change of law, the new Federal Government has certainly encouraged the tractors to consider whether they will continue to carry out their dirty business and thereby take on sensitive sentences of freedom. It will not be as Mrs Stoisits – she is still here – has said about the Greens: that higher punishments do not deter the perpetrators and these are only dreamy ideas as she said. Rather, it seems that it doesn't matter to the Greens how the aliens come to Austria, most importantly, they're here! This is certainly not in the sense of the majority of the population of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19657	The next speaker to speak is Mr Deputie's friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19678	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I too would like to deal with the § 9 of the Foreign Law, because for the first time in this law the harvest workers for work in agriculture and forestry are expressly mentioned. It is about 7 000 workers, who can be employed for up to six weeks, with a flexible design option. The work is carried out via the labour market service. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The Farmers' Federation! The peasantry is bringing the harvest helpers into the land!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] A point of view shall be provided in the valid travel document. This also gives these workers the right to stay for employment, and they remain legally in Austria for the duration of their activity. We are able to bring into a legal form a long-standing black working area. Not only the 1,500 workers in Upper Austria – if I may say so from the above-Austrian point of view – deserve appropriate treatment. Only with a serious and clean appearance outwards can you succeed. This also includes one of the most strenuous work on a farm, because the good human relations with seasonal workers always have to be the top principle for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is absolutely incomprehensible to me that the Chamber of Labour finds that the method we choose is counterproductive for the use of 7,000 harvest workers. I also cannot understand the attitude of the opposition. For example, it is also the Chamber of Workers who repeatedly says that the quotas are not exhausted and therefore there is no need to bring foreign workers to Austria as seasonal workers. The fact is that the system of seasonal workers can only be maintained if there is enough room for action. If the quota is fully exhausted, then the system is already at its limit and can no longer be claimed. For this short-term policy, we are not to have, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Imagine this in practice! As a practitioner, I know that whole crops can be lost! It must be noted that the work remains and the harvest cannot be brought in if not enough harvest workers are available. The Upper Austrian vegetable farmers certainly do not represent a single case. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They are opposed to the use of these harvest workers. Ask the farmers in your district how important it is that harvest helpers are available to them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... exploiter!]] Of course, it is also a matter of ensuring the necessary flexibility in individual cases. I am very pleased that I am told by the representatives and by the representatives of the Chambers, how necessary the regulation to be decided today is – necessary for the work, and I believe that it depends on it, because the farmer must be quick and flexible in the harvest. When the opposition comes, cheap polemics operates and claims that the harvest workers in Austria are taking away the jobs from the Austrians, it must be prevented that the labour market of agriculture and forestry in Austria is not at all existent especially for the Austrians. And if the opposition argues with foreign cheap workers, you can see from it the value with which they qualify these workers – or should I say that better? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is a reality, unfortunately!]] The employed seasonal workers earn the collective fee due to them. But especially for agricultural work, there are no Austrian workers, Mrs Lichtenberger! That's it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I appeal to you to accept and admit to the opposition these facts of fairness, and seek to agree to this bill. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Ask the people!]] Finally, I would like to thank our Minister of the Interior, Mr Strasser, for his consistent approach in the field of towing. The announced intensification of the legal situation has not waited for long. Only a decisive approach to this humane form of human trafficking takes account of the victims and is also a reflection of our society. This government is not talking, it is implementing! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19798	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A clarification and three points. – Mrs Petrovic! I have not had any interest in letting the lady come out of the ministry. On this point, you have to contact the chairman of the Committee on the Interior; I have nothing against it at all. Three points in a short time. First: The goal of this novel is the only one and only fight against brutal trafficking in human beings – nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, It is perfectly clear that threats of punishment alone do not benefit. It is also clear and understandable, however, that criminal threats, which are substantially below those of our neighbouring countries, are very unfavourable. That is why we have intended to adapt the threats of punishment to those of our neighbouring countries, in particular those of Germany. Thirdly, You can believe me, this must be a conscious error: There is no mention at all that this law should apply to relatives – on the contrary. You know § 42 StGB, and you know the means of the division. These measures shall ensure that they are suspended accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not members are the goal of these new laws, but organized towing bands! Let us also say this with this novelle the fight!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19871	Mrs Burket is now on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19893	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The longer you listen to the arguments of the Green Group, the more amazed you must be about the really shifted world view you have from the Greens. If one listens to you – and I have done so very attentively for a long time – one gets the impression that we are Austrians, because we have so much in our country what the neighbouring countries do not have, and if the people from these countries push into our country, then this is certainly our fault, because we have led them into temptation. – For example, your comments have come across, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Similarly, your arguments about the "poor" harvest helpers sound – which are exploited, which are brought into our country under rather uncomfortable circumstances and have to work here for slave wages. And then they go home and have seen how beautiful it is here, then they live there, are torn out of their families and so on. – You can hardly follow this thought. On the other hand, you point out the Au-pair forces, which are also "so poor" that they meet the full hardness of social security, because they have to pay something for it. – I have to say, I don't understand you! I can't understand what you want to tell us here. [[Abg. Aumayr: No one can do that! Nobody!]] - Yeah, I think so. I only know one thing: The requests made by Mrs Mag. Stoisits have been introduced here only to avoid a law that is good that has proved itself, but in which it is urgently necessary to attract the punishments a little more and above all to execute them in full hardness so that this trafficking of human beings ceases. It is also necessary to get more seasonal workers and to place their work on a regular basis. This is about seasonal workers who are needed in agriculture. This is because, from the realistic, reasonable point of view, people from our neighbouring countries who are hardly able to make money or are unemployed at all. With us they are paid for a collective contract and earn as much in a week as there in six to eight weeks. So it is people who are doing good here, I would like to hold on to that which comes home with this money and helps their families there. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] But that's the other view of things – not the one you have of the greens. The legistic criminality of the tractors was what I meant earlier. I've been looking for the line on my note when you shook your head, Mrs Petrovic, because I said, as you represent everything, we're to blame for the fact that we're so good and that the others don't have what we have. Mrs Petrovic! Your statements – you meant working here for six weeks, breaking the whole life planning of these families and tearing them apart – are almost ridiculous. I am convinced that our foreign fellow citizens or the people in our neighbouring countries, who are here and who want to improve their living situation at home, are well aware that they are only coming to the country for a short time. They want to work here and have a very clear business in mind: so and so many weeks of work, so and so many weeks of correct pay for it. And at home they have the opportunity to improve their living situation. This has nothing to do with family, it has nothing to do with tearing apart, and above all there are no follow-up obligations: neither for one side nor for the other. These are very clear agreements. And it is our desire to put all these things on a basis that is indisputable, which is reasonable to people: on the one hand, farmers, the farmers who need the labour force, on the other hand, the workers who want to earn money who come to Austria and know what they have to do. – This is reality, Mrs Mag. Petrovic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as the tow is concerned, I would like to make a brief comment on Mrs Mag. Stoisits come back, because their statements have also made it quite clear that our ideas would be in the border area of the female dream, if we believe that we could achieve stronger punishments, that the towing is going back, but that people must be helped to change the situation in principle and in general. Mrs Mag. Stoisits! In one I give you the right to: It should be helped to the people who are towed in the most unworthy way to Austria, but bear in mind the following: If anyone is hungry, I'll give him a piece of bread, and then his hunger is gone now. But that doesn't solve his problem if he's hungry tomorrow! Therefore, it will be better to help him in such a way that he can earn his bread. It is also in these countries: There too, it is the most important thing to try to offer people the opportunity to find work in their own home country, to help build up appropriate structures there, to support them – but not unbridled and unblemished everyone here, otherwise it will soon be so, Mrs Mag. Stoisits that we emigrate there because it is no longer possible here and because we do not have enough jobs here either. That's the reality! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that there are certainly promising measures that could be taken in those countries from which most people come, who are being dragged here and who pay a lot of money for it because they hope for a better life. For the overwhelming part, these are economic refugees and not those refugees who are not at all at all to be discussed, because they were always welcome and will always be welcome in Austria, and they will be helped here. It is about doing educational work in the countries of origin and clarifying people – be it about the messages, perhaps also about newspapers, by inserating there – what dangers they face when they get involved in tow, and that this is not true what they are telling them there. This might also be a way to prevent such a lot from being dragged so much that so much misery comes to these people and to lose them the little bit they own there. These are realistic possibilities. But what you want is unrealistic, Mrs Mag. Stoisits, unrealistic and absurd, and therefore your applications must unfortunately be rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19972	Mr Leikam has spoken on an actual correction. Mr deputies, start by playing the claim you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e19997	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the wish of the Greens in the Committee, Mr Strasser, the Federal Minister for the Interior, said that a woman from the Ministry of the Interior should have been given the floor, that she should turn to the chairman of the committee. He's not responsible for that. Let's stick to the phrase "the lady." I would like to make it clear: This lady is a highly qualified official not from the Ministry of the Interior, but from the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is not possible for the committee president to invite someone from another area, not the subject area, to a debate. Of course, the Minister of State has the option at any time to bring officials of his place of business or other place of business to the aid of supplementary replies or questions and then to give them the floor. Unfortunately, the committee president does not have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20030	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20051	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is important to me, in connection with the attacks against the Caritas and also with the threats that have been presented here, to clarify a number of things. – I repeat: the threats, because to say, we will observe this institution, whether it behaves well towards the government, behaves willfully, that is enough to threaten – and we strongly reject that! – Your calls are a revelation of your mind! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That will probably be allowed!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's family terrorism on your part!]] The Caritas feel obliged to the Holy Scriptures, and what stands there is very clear. There will promise those blessings that help, and it means – I quote –: "For I was hungry, and you gave me food. I was thirsty, and you gave me a drink. I was strange, and you took me in with you. I was naked, and you gave me clothes. I was sick, and you took care of me. I was in prison, and you visited me." The Caritas do not demand a leucosis witness for their work, for co-humanity and help. It does not carry out any extended risk research, and it helps by trying here on earth to implement the Word of the Holy Scriptures. And if you start criminalizing this institution too, then it goes exactly in the direction of family criminal law and the impossibility of the activity of this important aid organization! I am giving particular attention to the EIA – I do not know whether you were present at the speech of Mr Mainoni – in which direction you are heading now!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20114	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Foreign Law 1997 and the Criminal Code in 116 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Schlögl and Mr Comrades submitted an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Schlögl and comrades have tabled an amendment containing the deletion of paragraphs 1 to 7 in Article I and a resulting amendment to the numbering. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the empty place of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer pointing) The cast farmer is not for this!]] Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also vote in favour of this draft law at third reading, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the General Social Security Act, including title and receipt in 117 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to the draft law in question, to give them a positive sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 118 amendments. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 119 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Posch and comrades concerning the tragic death of a refugee child in Burgenland. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 120 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. 24. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on motion for a resolution 96/A(E) by Mr Anton Leikamund comrades on additional 1 000 posts for safety executives (115 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20201	We're getting to the 24th. Agenda item. The rapporteur, Mr Kiermaier, waived oral reporting. Mr Leikam has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20228	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, the National Council, with the votes of the government parties, decided on the budget for 2000, a budget which has for the first time been falling dramatically for the internal security of our country for many years. Concrete: There are about 450 million schillings less for security in our country, and there is less personnel development, 440 planning sites. I would therefore like to make a new attempt in this direction today and ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Government to perhaps consider it again and to agree to our request, for the next four years for security in our country, for a continuation of the successful security policy to provide 1 000 additional posts in the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want and we simply cannot believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the good years of personnel development in the Austrian executive are over. I submitted a very comprehensive written request to the new Minister for the Interior, Mr Strasser, a few weeks after the new Federal Government was established, which was also very comprehensively answered. I believe that this question and the answer to this question will be an important reference for the Members of this House over the next few years. It is clear in this that what has been said by the representatives of the ÖVP over and over again is that there has been a reduction in staff among the Social Democratic Ministers of the Interior, simply and simply not true. The exact opposite is the case – to be read in the reply of the Federal Minister of State Strasser, divided and divided by police, criminal service, general army, individual police departments, by federal states. This is indeed a successful reference work, ladies and gentlemen! You should really make this happen once more. All your claims, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that there have been fewer staff, are simply not true. Since this budget was decided by the government parties here, there has been deep frustration among the executive departments, the police and the Gendarmerie. I do not know, Minister of State, whether you are the same as I am, or many other colleagues, who take their parliamentary activities very seriously and maintain good contacts with the officials of individual departments. It is repeatedly pointed out that they have actually reached the limit of their performance. I keep receiving letters every week. I could read a whole package here today if it would allow time. The officials write that they have arrived physically and psychologically practically at the end of their performance, that they are no longer able to carry out their activities sufficiently with the existing staff and with the planned cuts. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You should take this seriously and consider again whether the path you have taken is the right one. It is not a question – a representative of the Austrian People's Party has accused us of doing so in committee – of panicing with the officials. That is not our intention at all, but it is our duty to ensure that those officials who work for the security of our country, who, as they themselves say, cannot continue physically and mentally. That's our job – and it's not about "panikmache"! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It can be read by everyone the development of staff in recent years. It is really paradoxical – and I say this above all to the address of the Freedom Party: A day after the rejection of the request for Leikam, Schlögl and comrades by your political groups, FPÖ and ÖVP, in the Committee, the Carinthian Transport Representative, Mr. Landeshauptmann Deputy Matthias Reichhold, called for much more staff in a broadcast for safety on Carinthia's streets. He meant that the existing staff would no longer guarantee the safety of Carinthia's roads. [[Abg. Aumayr: Because you've broken down!]] He is right, Mr. Landeshauptmann's deputy Reichhold. He's really right. Ladies and gentlemen! Please read the written reply of Mr Strasser's Minister for the Interior! Then you will see how much more Gendarmerie officials have been used in Carinthia at the time when Social Democratic Ministers had the responsibility. There is no Austrian federal state, ladies and gentlemen, where there are no more officials in the Gendarmerie and the police; there are nearly 1,000 officials in the Gendarmerie, including the border army, of course, that one has to add. We will not allow that when you draw up balance sheets, when talking about the Gendarmerie, you do not count the border army because you say these are "other" gendarmen. That, ladies and gentlemen, will not go! The border army is also doing excellent work, and we are of course part of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are significantly more officials in each Austrian state – to say that again – even in Carinthia. But this is a double game with which we will not find ourselves, ladies and gentlemen: To reject the requests here – and to demand more personnel for the Gendarmerie through your country politicians. I must also point out once again, Mr Kiss, even though he is not present now – apparently Mr Kiss's executive is no longer interested – what he asked for in August of last year under a Social Democratic Minister of the Interior Karl Schlögl and a Social Democratic Finance Minister and State Secretary at an event of his party: 500 gendarmerie officials more alone for the Burgenland, 500 gendarmerie officials more for the "Binnenland" in the rest of Austria. Modest as he is, only half for the whole of Austria, but 500 for the Burgenland. – Should I be right, there is a good social democratic head of state, okay, let's give him this staff. He would have even gotten an order, Mr Kiss, if it had come about. And then Mr Kiss said in this issue: The ÖVP makes its claim to the conditionalo sine qua non – the condition sine qua non ; in fact, right! – a basic condition for future government negotiations. [[the speaker speaks the word "qua" like "kua"]] [[The speaker, in turn, says "kua"]] [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman:Qua! Qua!]] If these 1 000 officials who requested Mr Kiss are not included in the Government Convention, there will be no government participation of the Austrian People's Party. – So Kiss in the original tone, in August 1999. Where is he today, Member Kiss? He smelled. There are no more 1 000 officials, the ÖVP has remained in the government, there are 440 executive officials less! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is uncertainty! This is a game on the back of the population that very much appreciates security and also knows what social democratic ministers have done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Strasser! Just a few more sentences. In this answer, which you really took very seriously, you did not answer two points above all. They have been diverted from these questions, which I have asked very consciously. I wanted to know about you: Where does the efficiency of a service end for the Austrian Minister of the Interior? How many Gendarmerie officials must be at a service to be able to carry out effective security policies and security tasks there? How many do they have to be? Are these three, are those four, are these five or do they have to be several? How many officials have to be on police services so that they can work efficiently? That's where you scratched the curve. You haven't said how you imagine it, and you've been talking about all kinds of things that have to be taken into account. Yes, of course, these things are also to be taken into account, but tell us whether a service can still work effectively with four officials! That is what you have to tell Parliament, because the path you are now taking is a wrong one: In the year 2000 around 440 officials less, and we hear from the Minister of Finance that it is going to get much worse in 2001. Then there will be further cuts – and then we are there that services can no longer be maintained because they have far too few staff. Say, Minister, to the Austrian Parliament: How many officials would you like to have on the services so that they can work efficiently? That's why I'd ask you again today. Overall, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties: Consider this step really! You've always asked for this here. You have always, in every speech, demanded: More staff must be here! I don't understand. They're defending something that can't be defended. Stand on the side of security! Do it the way some free and black politicians in the countries do: Not only do you desire more staff, but you decide to do so here. Do it! We ask you to do so – in the interests of the citizens of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20326	Next item is the report by Mr Kößl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20359	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Leikam, I am right in a few things. I have always called for additional staff, but you know very well that we now have quite different conditions. If I have read the SPÖ's request or followed the statements here, I must assume that some ladies and gentlemen can no longer sleep at night from the opposition, because the security is now no longer given. We did not agree to this request in committee, Mr Leikam, and I also tell you why. In principle, what is in the first and second paragraphs of your application is welcome, for example, if you demand that the security executive should be promoted and supported. But now at the heart of your request, the 1,000 additional posts. This is really an old hat, Mr Leikam. They have called for security in 1998 and 1999 and have also announced that there will be additional 1 000 planning posts. You have announced that, but it has remained with the announcement and wishful thinking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What about the pillow? What did the pillow ask for?]] At the last government negotiations with the SPÖ, the ÖVP also called for an increase of 1 000 planned posts and also supported Mr Schlögl accordingly, only Mr Leikam: Her Minister of Finance removed these demands from the table. All of a sudden, this demand was no longer in the government agreement or in the working paper – supposedly because it had not been financially feasible. Now, however, to demand more than 1,000 planning points from Minister of the Interior Strasser and the current Federal Government – after the budget disaster has been announced and in the course of the budget consolidation – is legitimate for an opposition, but it is irresponsible, polemic policy. I would like to point this out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You should have known that before, when you asked!]] It is purely Party tactics to demand 1,000 planning sites now, and it is the cynicism of the population and of the executive officials. We from the Executive Union have raised very precisely what the personnel situation at Gendarmerie and the police actually looks like. I also have accurate data, and we can exchange our data. With 1. At least 344 officials were missing in Lower Austria on February 2, 2000. You can't say that something has only happened there in the last three months, but it just hasn't gotten any better. ==References== February 2000 344 officials in Lower Austria were missing, and no one can explain to me that they were all in school. Mr Leikam! Three weeks after fishing the new Federal Government, you wake up, and you and your party start with an unprecedented action by bombarding the new Interior Minister Strasser with requests, across all the districts of Austria, always with the same or similar questions, as many planning sites are saved, as many are occupied. I have to say: There have been no such requests for savings policy over the last five years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And what I think is very strange is that Parliamentary Schlögl on 10 October. On February, one week after his departure as Minister of the Interior, in an APA issue, the security in our country is also at risk and again demands an additional 1,000 planning points. Mr Schlögl. You and your predecessor, Member of Parliament, Mr Lösnak, have never managed to fill in the official's duties. On the contrary: ==References====External links== Meeting of the National Council, you spoke of reducing by 200 planned posts each in 1998 and 1999 and last December you decided in the Council of Ministers that 800 officials will be saved. Internal Minister Strasser is due to the fact that now "only" – and I really want to emphasize this and put it under the lead mark because I am too many – 400 officials instead of 800 officials were saved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Leikam! On the one hand, in 1998 and 1999, you requested additional 1 000 planning posts, but at the same time agreed that 200 officials were saved in 1998 and 1999. Mr Leikam! This is really only party tactics and cynicism carried out on the back of the population and the officials! But that's not our style. It is therefore not possible for us to agree to this request either.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20435	Mr Schlögl spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, start by playing the claim you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20460	Ladies and gentlemen! The honourable Member has claimed, Mr Kößl, that I am speaking in December.... Let me talk now, or do we test whether I know the names of all Members? [[Mr Miedl and Mr Prinz: what?]] [[Abg. Prince: I'm sure that's right what he said!]] – I don’t know you, for example; You can call it me then. [[Abg. Prince: Don't be so nervous!]] I therefore correct the claim made by the Kößl Member that in the Council of Ministers last December I would have agreed to a reduction of 800 plantations in the Austrian executive. – This is a false claim! The opposite is the case: I have always demanded that there be additional staff for the Austrian executive.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20519	Mr Pilz spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20540	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The word spoken by my liberal predecessor has already been punished prophylactically in the personnel election and therefore does not need a separate response. [[Call to the liberals and the ÖVP: Who spoke?]] I don't think it necessary either,... [[Abg. Kößl: Deputies Pilz! Do the right thing! I'm not from the Freedom Party!]] In the meantime, the differences have become such that I am really hard to distinguish from. But maybe you really have a black party book. Faith You're telling me: You can't see it very clearly anymore! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of Abg. You've been "on the glue" to us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It makes no sense to always talk: a hundred more, a hundred less, a thousand more, a thousand less. It depends on the quality of the officials! I remember meeting last night in Kaisermühlen with an older woman who told me: [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Although Vienna is a very safe city and Austria is a very safe state, Dr. Pilz, I don't go to the street at night because I can then go Meier – translated into non-French: because I can go in a lot of fun then because I go in danger with it. This subjective feeling of uncertainty is something that does not at all correspond to the facts, but which is very likely to have to do with a way of selecting staff, as it has been supported and supported by representatives of the staff in recent times. [[Interlocutory calls by Dr Mitterlehner, Hornek and Miedl]] Today, if you're stopped in the city of Vienna or elsewhere, you don't know whether a random shot is released with a pull-off pressure of 2.4 kilos. [[Abg. Prince: But this is really...!]] You don't know who you are confronted with: with a staff representative of the liberals within the framework of the special mission command or with the majority of peace-loving officials in the city of Vienna. [[Abg. Miedl: Mr. Pilz, that's below your level!]] We only know one thing: There is a problem of quality. [[Abg. Miedl: What does that mean, Mr. Pilz? That every police officer pulls off? – That’s below your level!]] Now I'll tell you something else. It is about offering other and new people access to executives. This afternoon I was an initiative by young people who call themselves "orientation-seeking young people", and we have discussed job opportunities, career choices and how things should continue. [[Abg. Prince: And there they go to you? - I don't understand!]] I spoke seriously with Christian, with Doris, with Lolo and Andrea about the future and told them, among other things: [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The poor kids!]] Why don't you go to the police? Why don't you four want to become part of the officials we're looking for in this city? [[Abg. Prince: (on a group of young people on the gallery) Upstairs the poor children sit!]] I'll tell you one thing: These are the people who could increase security in this city! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[The Members of Parliament, Prince and Hornek – pointing to the gallery – are sitting up there!]] [[Call the ÖVP: This is Lolo!]] [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP and with Mr Oellinger and Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] We need more people like Christian, Doris, Lolo and Andrea, and we need fewer people who, when they approach a private car, do not know what is happening. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Imagine them, the Lolo and the Doris...! Are these people up there?]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Today he is really good!]] Now I tell you, coming back to the previous debate, another: Madeleine Petrovic rightly quoted from the Sermon on the Mount and pointed out to whom you should provide clothing and help. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Prince: The poor young people up there, they have to listen to this!]] I am really thinking that today the Austrian Farmers' Federation is to become the largest legal tow organisation in this Republic! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Truly, I say to you...!]] [[Abg. Müller: However, there is no legal tow!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do you really imagine a security-policy discharge of our borders so that you approve people by small changes to laws a few hours' stay in Austria, without social security, without any pension insurance, without any social security, and then say if they stay longer, then should forces of the security executive be here and rescheduling them? [[Abg. Aumayr: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who says that?]] Imagine that the people who are looking for work due to incredible prosperity in Austria come here for a few hours and then "Bye-bye!" Is it said? [[Abg. Aumayr: You're talking crazy!]] A few hundred schilling, and off the border? And who stays here is a problem for the security executive? [[Abg. Prince: Speech is silver, silence is gold!]] Have you discussed this with the Minister of the Interior, which is what it means for the borders to be signaled to the people in poor Eastern European states: We need you, we need your labor force, we need your commitment, but if you stay only one day too long, then police use, then push off, then leave – without the slightest security!Unknown term type: "%s".? Did you think that you would signal people that you only need them as cheap workers and not place the least value on people, families and social contexts? You don't care? Do you really want to see the presence of servants and members of the Burgenian Gendarmerie again, so that those harvest workers who stay a few days longer because they might find a way to move back there or there? [[Abg. Müller: Now they get more possibilities!]] Is this your kind of "ordinary employment policy", which attracts people to a hunger wage, without attracting social security to Austria – and then to say: "Okay, out!", "Move it!", "Way!"? There, ladies and gentlemen, it will be very serious for me. Yes, to several hundred additional planning sites for the executive in Vienna, because we need them, yes, to additional planning sites on the country's gendarmerie posts, which – also by your kind of security policy – are threatened by the resolution; but no to an increase of forces on the border, which are also to be bathed out in person – that you are not able to offer employment policy offers that are fair and people who come from Eastern Europe give the same opportunities as people who have the privilege of being born in the middle of this republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. That's embarrassing!]] This is the problem of your kind of security policy: that wherever you are unable to solve social problems, whether they are labour immigration or a misguided energy policy or a misguided transport policy, you always say: [[Abg. Miedl: You're a little confused today!]] Okay, that went by, there's resistance, that's why with the executive! [[Abg. Miedl: Do you know what you're talking about? - You're talking crazy!]] For this type of security policy: only do damage on the labour market, in social policy, in youth policy, in drug policy, in transport policy and in energy policy – and then call for police and put someone behind everyone, because you only see people as a security risk and because you would most like to face every person as a security risk of a security check, not just every single official, but every individual person is too bad! That's what it says about looking for a job: Do you drink? Do you have any debts? Do you have any problems? And so on. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's your idea of security policy! This is also an absolutely inhumane expression for those who do this work, and I really reject it in all its clarity! - Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That's a joke!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20944	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e20966	Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard some rather non-realistic speeches by Green Members today, and Mr Pilz has continued to do so. I mean, it would have been better for the executive, for security, if he had stayed with his group – with Lolo, with Doris, with Helga and so on – and with whom he would have discussed the wishes for the future and the executive. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP]] On behalf of the Group of the I think today we have experienced "Leikam is back again" – as security spokesperson so to speak. After he was caught by Gusenbauer, the new clubman, as a little bit of it and, as it were, tore his armpits off his shoulder as a safety spokesperson, he now felt a little uproar again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls:Bravo, Toni]] I would like to tell you, Mr Leikam: I really appreciate changing and flexible politicians, just: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: In your party you have to be!]] If this is already done with such breathtaking speed that you don't come along anymore, then you have to ask yourself if this turn of events is not really opportunistic! [[Abg. Edlinger: We don't come here to you!]] That is what I am going to put to you when I look at this request. Mr Leikam! You are a truly long-standing expert in the security field, you know the personnel situation very well. I have made the effort to look through some of your speeches on important issues of security policy in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] I have looked at six or seven speeches of the past few years Not once have you asked for a staff increase! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] [[Abg. Leikam: We did that automatically!]] Not once have you pointed out the alarming staff level! [[Abg. Leikam: No, but increased every year!]] Not once did you put a written question, Mr Leikam, in which you had raised the question of staff. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Leikam.]] Do not have a single letter It is quoted by those you have received, as you say now, in parcels! Now, 100 days after the overschedule in opposition, come with your demands! But not only you, but also your colleagues – Dietachmayr, Gartlehner, Gradwelt – are now coming and asking questions about what's going on with the staff! And Mr Schlögl, who is also very well aware of the situation, is still in line with such a request. With all sympathy: It's not serious, Mr. former Minister of the Interior! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you know why that's not serious? – You were extremely unhappy when you became Minister of the Interior that your predecessor had given up one to 1,000 posts at the executive. They suffered because you then had to divide the staff, the services or plan posts. I know from the police in Vienna that you, Mr. Ex-Minister Schlögl, before the FPÖ was still in the government, made the requirement, according to the until 31. ==References====External links==* Official website I got this from one of your police staff in writing. – But hardly you are away from the ministry, you don’t want to know anything about it anymore! Now you're asking for a plan! Mr Ex-Minister Schlögl, you said in committee that it was between, I believe, 1997 and 1999 nothing was saved at planning points. ==References====External links== January 1998, you said that "in no doubt the year 1996 and also the year 1997 were not good years for the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, because in these two years we had to save 1 000 planning places and that, of course, for the Austrian executive has been a major asset." – You said that, please, in the Federal Council – and now you represent it as if no posts were saved! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] [[Abg. May. Schlögl: But in 1998 and 1999 we got extra!]] This request, which you have put forward, corresponds to what you are generally doing in opposition policy, namely opportunistic thinking, uncertainty and false information! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Miedl.]] They also claim in this request that the tasks of the security executive have become more complex and complex. – Yes, believe Do you really think that this situation in Austria has changed so much in 100 days? What does that mean that the tasks have become different? In fact, we have the same dangers that we had seven or eight years ago, namely the drug problem, organized crime, towing, youth crime. Nothing has changed at all, just: As long as you were in the government, you didn't want to know anything about it at all. If I have dealt with the issues, then only the present Mr Schlögl has given me the right, but Mr Leikam and others have said that I am exaggerating once again. The staff situation has not changed, the budgetary situation has not changed at all: The budget is almost the same as in the past few years, only: Now it's too little for you now because you're in opposition! You, Mr. Ex-Minister Schlögl, when you were still in the government, have never – I have told you before – done something to change the structures. They have been "advanced" on an over-hour basis throughout the staff and have really not done anything about structural changes, and that is now down to us! But instead of helping us to cooperate now... – You say "poor": [[Abg. Edlinger: Poor! Poor!]] In fact, this federal government is poor, because it must do away with what you have done in recent years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Because of her predecessor she is "poor"!]] I'll give you another advice: You should soon move to another tactic in your opposition policy. So far, it has always been very clear what is most important to you: the government is attacking, insinuating and wiping us out. But you will certainly not get along well!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21156	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21178	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We can discuss one, ladies and gentlemen, but it is written down, and that is the establishment plan. In this establishment plan, there was an increase of 350 sites in the field of safety executives from 1998 to 1999. That's a fact. We can now discuss this for a long time now, but I invite you to read these figures. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Pendl is going to be..., I tell you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a high-quality safety standard, and the Austrians are very satisfied with the work, with the performance of the Austrian executive. I believe that our common thanks go first and foremost to the Austrian executive officers. These, ladies and gentlemen, have a right to provide them with the necessary structures in all areas, both in the matter and in the planning area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have already discussed this at the budget debate – it is not long ago – and I have already told you in this debate – this is going through like a red thread: It will always be saved with the little ones, as you imagine it. Now look at the savings measures! I can remember that Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé – a pity that she has gone out now – even said in committee: Save us right!, but look at yourself, Mr. Minister, where it is saved – and I predicted it – at the Gendarmerie Posts, at the police guards, but at no staff station! In my home district, the district where the Gendarmerie is the second strongest in all of Austria, in Baden, five people are falling away! It is also similar in Mödling, the most heavily burdened district: All over the place, in the watchrooms, the little ones are saved! It is directly a system: Get away with the little ones!, but the big ones are getting more and more, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important and right that we bring this demand here today, and I also believe that it must be possible to fulfil it without problems. In the last legislative period, not only did Mr Kiss, but he put himself outside in the constituencies, heads of state – all those who have felt like meeting a political statement – outside and said: I need more gendarmen, I need more cops! – You can understand this across our federal territory and also read it. At one time, however, no one knows anything about it, and everyone acts as if it was all no longer a problem. I believed last year, in Lower Austria, the world is falling, because hundreds of Gendarmerie officials have not been transferred to Lower Austria immediately. – You already know this story, Mr Strasser, both inside and outside, but the times are changing quickly. I believe that we would all be well advised if we were to equip ourselves with this sensitive area of internal security, because it concerns the well-being of our executive officials, the well-being of the Austrians and our homeland. I therefore believe that the fulfilment of the request made in this request must be feasible in a legislative period, and I really invite you to agree with us. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Austrian executive officials have a right to provide politicians with the framework conditions they need to perform their heavy service in the interests of Austria, in the interests of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21221	Mr Reindl is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21243	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation of the entire safety executive in Austria is too serious to address the almost childish statements made by Mr Pilz of the Greens. But with this he has proved: The Greens don't understand anything about security policy and executives! Ladies and gentlemen! These additional planning sites, the ones of the SPÖ delegates Leikam, Mag. The main areas of transport safety, tow control, child pornography reporting centre, and so on, as mentioned in the application, are to be used. [[Abg. Leikam: That's what Mr Reichhold says!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam! A clear confession, a clear yes by the liberals to the security executive in Austria! Similarly, Mr Leikam, in principle, support for more planning sites – but have Are you also thinking about the costs? These would amount to about 700 to 800 million schilling; Equipment, accommodation, vehicles and so on included. Got it, mine. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, in your request not to mention that you have left us a huge debt mountain as an inheritance, which is now to be dismantled, and that this federal government is therefore forced to put in place rehabilitation measures so that the Maastricht criteria can be fulfilled? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In connection with the statements made by the honourable Member, he also referred to the budget: Where are we going to get the money? I miss out on such a concrete proposal on your part. It almost seems grotesque that exactly you are making this demand! Is that even credible? No one in the entire security executive will take this off! The entire security device must be disintegrated by these demands made by you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Similarly, the requests of SPÖ representatives to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning the personnel situation of the Gendarmerie in the individual districts of different federal states are surprising. Packing is supposed to be her. You, the Social Democrats, have, in the last 30 years, put the Minister of the Interior in place and thus had the power to take appropriate measures! High house! In the light of the request in question, it is argued, inter alia, that new forms of crime have emerged in Austria, and that is why it is necessary to create additional sites for security executives and security management. – I ask you: What new forms of crime have been in the new Federal Government since the attack on the 4th century. This year was born in Austria? [[Abg. Leikam: Tow!]] [[Abg. Leikam: The tow being!]] What forms have there been already under the SPÖ/ÖVP coalition? Ladies and gentlemen! You will not have meant the weekly demonstrations against the new Federal Government? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] – Demonstration is not a criminal form; I recognize myself as the fundamental right of the demonstration. Members of the SPÖ and the Greens! They would be able to relieve the safety executive considerably. Ask the demonstrators who are obviously close to you against the new government to finally stop their partly aggressive rallys, whose content is already well known! How often do you have to go to the street on the same subject? [[Abg. Edlinger: Read better!]] In addition to the costs, ladies and gentlemen, who up to now amounted to about 50 million schilling, the downfall of the Thursday show on Vienna's streets would also be a noticeable relief for the executive. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One reason for the staffing need is that in 1995 and 1996, there were hardly any basic courses for executive officials, and at that time there was a Social Democratic Minister of the Interior. I already see the issues of the Socialist Trade Union Party in front of me today, even though Mr Leikam has promised not to panic. There will probably be the headline on red paper – as red as your budget figures and the numbers of your party bank: "Blue and black against additional plan posts in the safety executive!" It will probably mean that there is a risk of security that there is a frustration in the civil service that citizens have the right to protection that all money will be allocated to large farmers and industry – and what else do I know! Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, I would like to ask you: Don't worry about the civil service! Don't talk a bit of frustration! Admit your misdeeds to the security executive – and put up the courage to tell the truth! Please note that the ministers of the interior have been the social democrats for the last 30 years! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'll give the ex-internal minister Mag. Karl Schlögl Right in what he did in the Committee on the Interior on 23. In May of this year, he said: The new government is to learn from the mistakes of the old government. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what she'll do!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21371	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21393	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Reindl, take back the planning of the tax gifts of 20 billion schilling, then you have fewer budget problems! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not the budget that is the problem, but the focus. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: There is a Styrian district, there you don't know at all! This is your home district!]] Mr Kößl – I do not know if he is here: yes?- Could you be a little quieter? - I'll give you the right to: It's right. The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Schlögl has determined to create additional posts. Whether the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs would have refused and enforced Edlinger, is not important – we have no coalition with the ÖVP. The fact is that the Federal Ministry of Finance has not enforced itself against the FPÖ Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Leikam has argued very comprehensive and committed the request for the increase in staff of the executive, but he has also demasked the behaviour of the ÖVP and FPÖ: You not only operate in the executive child-moving, but also in many other things, and you need a "feeling valve" pretty slowly! Take bond with the Styrian "baby valve": All you don't need is to throw in there! [[Abg. Steibl: What do you throw in there?]] Member of the Pilz has mentioned that the safety feeling is very individual and very different. No one is really fear-free, and Kästner, ladies and gentlemen, especially the gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP – you like to quote, Dr. Khol – has said [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Who?]] Even the strongest man looks under the bed! – Probably also you and also the Federal Minister! Therefore: A person's sense of security is very important. We all know that we are striving for security. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Under the bed?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Under the bed?- Oh, my God!]] Under the bed, Dr. Khol! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What is he looking for, under the bed?]] Mr Strasser, you are also a regional politician and therefore you know: No community dissolves its fire brigade just because it didn't burn for a few weeks. I know you do not intend to disband the executive, but I am throwing this federal government before – and you are a member of this federal government – that it saves the wrong spot, namely in security! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Every Federal Minister has so far been working for the officials of the Executive – I have here a list that has been a plus between 1997 and 1999 – for their equipment and for appropriate technical needs, i.e. the improvement of working conditions and has sometimes fought against their own Finance Ministers. The Federal Minister, out of service, will know that. The good reputation your predecessor, Mr. Federal Minister, except for the Schlögl Service, really got to work with the executive officials, therefore, is that he has created good conditions for them. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] He was, I think, very often abused by various sides. But the goal of a Federal Minister of the Interior and Minister of the Interior must be to get out for his officials, which is just to get out. Federal Minister! That is why it is surprising and surprising that you have not come from a demand for the increase of the civil service, although you are probably aware of how much overtime the officials are burdening. You have subjected yourself to the wishes of Mr Grasser in an amazing way and have not given the impression that you are a disputed minister for the good of your officials! Federal Minister! I would like to conclude by saying one sentence, which is also in connection with Mr Zweytick, who – in my last speech I have already mentioned – has been very strongly involved in this question: The South Styria has the longest EU external border to be monitored, and you too, Federal Minister, have called the border panorama route surveillance in a broadcast as "silence task". Without more officials, this won't happen! You still have the opportunity to agree to our request today. Do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21525	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Schlögl in word. I give him the floor for a maximum of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21549	Mr Reindl has claimed that I said that the new government should learn from the mistakes of the old government. – I cannot have said that because the old government, at least in the field of security policy, made no mistakes!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21576	The next speaker is the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21598	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed this debate with great interest. Please allow me to make the following remarks: First: It was said that the 1999 budget was a good one in the field of security. That is quite clear. But we can say with great joy that the budget for 2000 is even better because it is higher by 30 million schilling. This can also be said to the honourable Member of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, from the presentation to the Council of Ministers of 13 May. Citation of December 1999 concerning staffing for 2000. Quote: "point 1.1.: Each department will be allowed to take up a maximum of 0.25 percent of the paid staff in the full employment equivalent (VBÄ) of the respective department as of 31.12.1999." There are exceptions to the second point. In turn, I quote: "From the general uptake rate of 0.25 percent are excluded" – including according to point 2.3. literally –: "The department of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, where employment in 2000 is to be reduced in such a way that on 1 January 2000 the Federal Ministry of the Interior In January 2001 a maximum of 32 908 plantations are replaced in Part II.A of the establishment plan – as of 1. In this area, a maximum of 33 244 planning posts may be required." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! These are based on the establishment plan targets for the year 2000 minus 840 planning posts! The then Federal Minister for the Interior has made a note, which I would also like to quote. "At the joint request of the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of State for Defence, it is agreed that, when they agree to the report, they assume that the regulations contained therein will only apply until a new government has been defended and a new regime has been adopted." – End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The government agreement in this area between SPÖ and ÖVP was established. My predecessor has also published this. Ladies and gentlemen! There was not a single additional planning site agreed there. That's the result! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the budgetary situation, as we unfortunately had to take note of it in recent weeks – also in international comparison – the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs will not be able to close to the general idea of savings. This also applies to staff. That is why I have already said in the budget debate here that an increase in the next few years will not be possible, for those reasons which we have discussed in detail during the budget debate. That is why I have set out five points on how we can facilitate the work of our officials, how we can make them more efficient and how we can further raise the subjective sense of security of the Austrians. First point: In all the savings that should be necessary in the personnel sector, a priority must be given to saving first and foremost in the central area. Mr Reindl! I am very grateful to you for your suggestion – and I am happy to follow this up – that Mr Landesgendarmerie Commander of Lower Austria is supposed to have made such proposals in this area. These proposals are currently in the field of the Gendarmerie central command, and I thank you very much for your advice! We're going to go after these things in the area of killing and swimming. Thank you very much for the note! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second point: If it is to be handled with care by staff, it is necessary that we consider and work towards the core tasks within the executive, as foreseen in the government programme, and I also wish to propose and implement it to the House. Key tasks certainly do not concern reporting offices and workshops. But we will certainly also have to look closely at the special uses. I would like to thank all of you for the indication that we will have to work in the area of overtime! That's a second big block we're going to deal with. Third point: We will find and implement synergies throughout the resort. The project assignment to the Federal Criminal Office is one of the essential steps to this end. Fourth point: We must increase the pace of progress so that our officials actually have time for their task of being there for the population and not working within the bureaucracy. On this point, I may, in fact, distinguish myself from my predecessor in my type of management. I would like to admit this, Mr Leikam, on two points. First: I do not think it is as crucial as many officials are employed in the services, but rather how many officials are actually with the population. That is the important point for me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, Mr Leikam! My vision of a red and white-red Ministry of the Interior is not to look at the use and number of executives on the fact that a social-democratic head of state is in office. For me, belonging to a political group is not the reason why someone is used somewhere or not. Rather, I see the reason for human use exclusively in the subjective security needs of the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21704	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21725	Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that I can speak on behalf of all the Members of Parliament if I note that we are here in the House of Members and I, Mr Federal Minister, think it a not particularly happy and fair procedure if you are reserved to take the floor as the last one here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think you should also give Members the opportunity to express their views on your comments here in the House of Speakers. However, you will take the opportunity to make your statements after the Members' speaking time has been practically exhausted. That's not quite fair, Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to choose a different way in the sense of a common good work here! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I'm now bringing some concrete clues. Federal Minister! They cannot deny that 350 planning sites were created in 1999 in addition. This is a fact that no one can discuss away. The fact is that you have saved 440 planning sites in the year 2000. And I cannot share your opinion that, as you say, it is completely indifferent how many officials are serving at a service when they serve the population, for there is now a predetermined course of service. That's what all officials here today know, and there's enough police and gendarmerie officers here. The latter always come to us and say that they can no longer carry out their task with three, four or five-man posts, if for example one is assigned, one is sick and one on vacation and has a time balance. Then the post is locked up, and that is exactly what we do not want. Tell us what the lower level of support you have in each case was for the General Army Offices or the Police Departments, so that the officials know how they are, because we cannot take note of your current answer!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21774	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 115 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the notice to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. 25. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment 152/A by Mr Werner Amon, Mag. Karl Schweitzer and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Act on professional maturity examination (160 of the supplements) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 151/A by Mr Werner Amon, Mag. Karl Schweitzer and comrades concerning a federal law amending the School Education Act (161 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21838	We come to points 25 and 26 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. In his capacity as rapporteur, Mr Grossruck wishes to speak. - Please. Rapporteur Wolfgang Großruck: Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As the author of the written Committee Report 161 of the Supplements, I may make the following correction of the print error. In the attached draft law, the new provision is instead of "§ 82 para. 5th" correct "§ 82 para. 5th Z 4". On behalf of the Committee on Education, therefore, I would like the National Council to give the draft law, in 161 of the Supplements, a constitutional agreement, taking into account the pressure error correction I have just presented. Mr President. I would ask you to go into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21886	I would like to thank the rapporteur. Clearly, this is actually a print error. We are going into the debate. Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Antoni. The speaking time is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21914	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Two important elements of the Austrian education system are today on the agenda for decision-making: Changes to the professional maturity examination law and to the school education law are to be made, which will allow you to continue to catch up with the primary school degree. Both elements are in line with the principle of lifelong and vocational learning, and we social democrats will give both novels the consent. We will therefore agree because the Act of professional maturity has come into force on the initiative of SPÖ, the Chamber of Workers and the Trade Union Confederation and entered into force in 1997. However, we will also agree because it closed a gap in the Austrian education system. Over the past four years, it has been clear that the professional maturity test has become an attractive instrument of higher and further qualification. Some 5,000 candidates are currently preparing to take the professional maturity test throughout Austria. This is a considerable number, and it is a considerable success that can still be significantly expanded. That is why, as I mean, we should all work together! Today's novelle makes a small – positive – correction based on four years of experience, which increases access to professional maturity testing. Existing knowledge and education qualifications are better recognised and the necessary certification procedures are regulated accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, a remaining wormhead drop must be mentioned: The SPÖ believes that financial support should be provided as an incentive, as an incentive, as a motivation, but also as a reward for continuing training. I remind you, dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition that the Court of Auditors has massively criticized the small resources made available by the government for adult education. President Fierce last week in the Committee itself stated that adult education had come under the rule of law in the 2000 budget, as he formulated it. That's a really clear statement! I therefore call once again on the Federal Government to offer young people a new opportunity for this important part of adult education and to provide funding aid! With this in mind, I shall bring in the SPÖ resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e21983	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly signed and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22007	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to refer to my previous speaker in a moment. Mr Antoni! We know your concerns, and we also support it, but justice is not created to a greater extent, because the country's support of the workers' chambers and so on already partially different and with this general distribution to the extent of 8,000 S the inequality would actually be rewritten. This does not, of course, prevent us from trying to fight for more funds in the field of adult education. However, inequality cannot really be offset by another. ==References== There is this facility on September 1997, which you have already mentioned. I believe that the path we have taken is the right one to make the course of education different from that of traditional schooling. What's special about this? – The special feature is that professional maturity examination takes into account acquired skills and subsets of skills and training courses and transforms them into knowledge to be recognised or recognised. The adult education institutions – you have already mentioned them – offer qualification and further qualification courses. This instrument of professional maturity examination is now intended to experience an educational innovation boost, not least due to the high demand for this possibility of continuing training. Figures have already been mentioned: At present, 4 500 demanders in adult education institutions consume this requalification and this type of education is pleased to find great support and wide dissemination in terms of information. About every second apprentice in the last year of the course knows very well about this possibility. I am very grateful that it seems to have been possible to disseminate and communicate a great deal of knowledge with the social partners through this instrument. It is therefore important that we make a small adjustment with today's novel, which also indicates that experience with this law needs to be gained first. Despite the positive development of which we have just heard from you, an adaptation is already to be made, because it is clear that further flexibilisation and increase in mobility is not only appropriate, but even necessary, in part. In particular, it will take into account the extension of access to professional maturity testing, while at the same time taking into account training or examinations already carried out at an equivalent level. First of all, equal treatment should be given to equivalent training and secondly to the efficient planning and design of professional careers of qualified graduates. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only wish for this young product of success that we continue to take the right course with this adaptation and go the right way, so that even the urge for higher qualification and life-long learning is no longer in the way, but can only do good again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22053	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22074	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Antoni, I think this debate shows that it is quite possible to make substantial improvements together in a very good law. This decision-making will extend access to professional maturity examination to three-year secondary schools, and will also be possible now in the form of a professional or professional environment. Equal work is also recognised. It is therefore quite essential improvements, and the request you have already made in the Committee is quite right, because incentive systems are well justified, especially in the case of continuing training for young people. But we all know the budgetary situation, and we need to take account of it at the moment. However, I can imagine that when the situation in the budget is relaxed and changed – which is, of course, not to be expected in the near future – one can talk about it again. However, I am annoyed that the Chamber of Labour has also found that these 6 million schillings, which are contributed by the federal government, are not used effectively everywhere. However, I couldn't really figure out to this day how the Chamber of Labour thinks that these 6 million schillings are put in the sand. – This is literally the case in the issue of the Chamber of Workers. Perhaps Mr Niederwieser as a follow-up speaker will be able to give you more information on which training institutions for adults do not make reasonable use of this money! Perhaps it could be possible to experience, stop, and possibly make sure that these 6 million schillings are used more effectively! Mr Antoni! We are sorry that this funding is not possible because of the strained financial situation, but it is not every day evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22109	The next speaker is Mr Dieter Brosz. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22134	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can also take a short look at the following: We too will give our approval to these two requests. I do not know now whether the members of the SPÖ Group will bring back the request they have made in the committee. It was also about introducing the NAP story, which is now to be extended by two years, without time limit. In this context, I was somewhat surprised by the Committee's argument on the part of the government groups, which on the one hand was said to be part of the EU programme and should also be labeled as such, and on the other hand, it was argued that an unlimited extension would not be desired, because it is not the goal of people getting their professional qualifications out of the system and not of washing up their professional training. I believe that there is probably no one who intends to interrupt his vocational training on his own, and who wishes to make a conclusion on principle if there is a corresponding possibility or promotion. I think that this would have been much more possible and would have been a very useful measure for this indefinite extension requested by the SPÖ Group in the Committee. I would now like to come to another essential request for me, which was on the agenda in the Committee and whose treatment was then postponed, on the subject of student participation, on student rights and on democratisation in school. It is known that the Greens are in favour of a school system where there is greater democratisation by trying to get away from the Hierarchies. The treatment of this request has been postponed, and I cannot resist the feeling that its treatment has been delayed because it is not really interested in finding a solution that is about to come into force. It said that this request would be re-examined to the next committee, but it was not on the agenda of the next Committee on Education. I will therefore look very closely at how this is handled and when it comes to dealing with this request. I also noticed – and this seems remarkable to me in the plenary session – that you are talking about "fundamental opposition" here at least every second opportunity, which both the Red and the Greens in this House are supposed to operate again and again. . I believe that if you have looked at the voting behaviour today, you can say with fug and right that the Greens and colleagues from the SPÖ are thinking very carefully about what requests they agree with. I would be very pleased if it would be possible to reverse it once again and if requests made by the opposition in committee would not be delayed because it is not possible to accept a request from the opposition and instead prefer to make it back as a government proposal or as a request from the government parties. I would like to bet that, statistically speaking, there have been many more applications that the opposition – which is anything but a fundamental opposition – has agreed to, and you have only agreed to a fraction of the opposition's applications. The only way to do it together is to make it so that it is also a government proposal. That's why I'm saying: Be not only fundamental government, but also take note of what the opposition brings in, and also agree here if it fits content! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22177	The next speaker is Mrs Muttonen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22198	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It always says: Our youth is our future, and education is the resource of our country. – You will all remember that a few years ago the EU proclaimed a year of lifelong learning, and I am quite sure that you were all in favour of it at the time and said that it is very important to focus on continuing training and training. Therefore, I wonder why, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and of the ÖVP, you are now blocking yourself so that people can continue to learn with support without inhibition and perhaps even with support! I believe that people are capable of development, but just everyone according to their own speed, and that one cannot say: What hens don't learn, Hans doesn't even have to try! or better: We won't let him try! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Who says that?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How do you get on it?]] I would like to remind you of the criticism of the Court of Auditors and also of the fact that in your coalition agreement you have defined adult education, which is a central point for continuing training. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What leads you to the finding?]] - You'll hear it soon. I would also like to say that two points which I would like to discuss here are very important to me: One is the professional maturity test. I think you all know what it costs. You know that the fees are very different in the different federal states and that it is therefore once again a question of whether you have money or not and can afford it – depending on where you live – to take these tests as well. I think that in these 25 000 S to 44 000 S, the replacement for the cost of teaching materials or for childcare that may be needed, or for travel costs et cetera is not included. - That's the one point. That is why I think people are being pushed to the brink that do not have the opportunity to continue their education. That is why the SPÖ proposes to support these people with 8,000 s. This is not very much when you compare it with the fact that, for example, a maturant or a maturant in her last year of school costs to the 70,000 S. Another point is the extension of the possibility of primary or compulsory schooling. We have 200 000 people in Austria who do not have compulsory schooling and there are about 7 000 in the year. I think they are in acute danger of getting to the approximately 420 000 poor in the country and finding themselves there if they do not have the opportunity to reclaim compulsory schooling. That is why I think that should be time-consuming. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I urge you to think about it again and to give people a real boost in their speed, because low education is a risk of poverty. I think we should create laws for youth, for good education and against poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22282	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22330	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I'm dealing briefly with the most likely shortest law ever introduced, I assume, with the novelle of the school education law, in which it literally means: In § 82 para. 5e Z4 the number ‘2000’ is replaced by the number ‘2002’. - That's it. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not in the short term that the spices lie here, but in efficiency. What's that supposed to mean? . With this extension, we want to extend the so-called NAP for the completion of primary schools until 2002, then evaluate and see if this is efficient, and then possibly propose other solutions, because we all know that only a proper training, that only excellent training also ensures a secure job and that we have the duty to allow those who have not managed to make the possibility to complete at least the primary school in the next two years. And that's what happens to this novel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have an excellent training system in Austria, which also gives us the weaker opportunities for education and training. Not everyone wants to study, not everyone can study. We need not only university leavers, but also a large, qualified range of skilled workers, of craft capacities with compulsory education. This novelle makes it possible to have dual apprenticeship training – I emphasize: dual! – and with a sound market and demand-oriented conclusion, the training opportunities are also given. Ladies and gentlemen! We really do not need to put our light under the Scheme in Austria. I have the German newspaper "Die Welt", which is the edition of 27. May 2000. It reads: "The "cruiser" comes from Graz". Daimler-Chrysler creates a new car – I hope it will be a racer – that will be produced 100 percent in Graz for Europe. Read the reasons for this! – This is not because the union is so strong or because the Chamber of Workers is so behind it, but because of the quality of the training that our people bring in! And by the way, it says: "The Chrysler Voyager, the M-Class and the Jeep Grand Cherokee have been produced for the European and non-American markets since 1990. From 2001 the new Chrysler model, the PT Cruiser..., will also be manufactured in Graz. Not without pride, Eurostar Manager Gary Cash says: “We are the best Chrysler plant in the company, and we can definitely measure ourselves with the Mercedes works.”... While in Windsor/Canada of 100 Chryslers 81.6 percent are without fault and in the U.S. St. Louis only 54.7 percent without makeup, in Graz, it is 90 percent." Ladies and gentlemen! That is why the international groups are coming to Austria and making their investments with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They do not do so because perhaps the Chamber of Workers in times like this with the "Big Brothers" and the "Red Brothers" infuses us and believes that only it is with us, but because our people have a decent education because they do their own responsible, independent, performance-related and responsibly responsible work in the best quality! [[Abg. Silhavy:... from the AMS!]] The basis for this is appropriate training, whether in primary education, whether as a skilled worker or in higher education. These have our people, and this is proof of it! We can therefore be proud of our education system, our school system in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22379	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22401	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Großruck! According to the standards of quality management, 90 percent of good parts are still too few. We'd have to reach at least 95 percent, then we're perfect. To my previous speakers a few words. Mr Brosz! That with democracy at school has a hook. One could also, democratically, abolish items such as Latin, mathematics and even more of these things. In the end, we do not want to do that in this sense. But democracy as a learning of democracy is certainly appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If it is said that maturants who want to take the professional matura have to bear the costs for it, then one should ask one question about the training offer. I could imagine that the professional promotion institutions are reviewing their cost situation. I could also imagine that there is a corresponding margin for a cost reduction there and that one could certainly meet the vocational school-maturities there accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the Profession matura has got its place in our school system. 4 500 interested parties work on it. I think that the aim of the novelle is more clarity and a uniform quality of this test. I think it is important that the graduates of professional maturity examination also know what they can do with what they have and how this can influence their further life planning in the sense of a positive design of their further training. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The circle of eligible persons will be extended. I think that this law is also about essential clarifications. We are – in short – particularly concerned with the personal careers of people who still have to complete their life planning in mature years. The measures are suitable for this purpose. We are therefore convinced that all in this House will agree to these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22452	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22473	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, let me refer to a few comments by previous speakers. Mr Großruck! I would like to tell you about Eurostar and Chrysler production: If you look at the whole truth there, you know – you may know – that Eurostar itself unfortunately does not train apprentices, but depends on those skilled workers who, for example, are trained through courses of the AMS or courses of the professional promotion institute. This is a wormhead drop in all these positive developments. Secondly, you should also know that, in addition to the quality of training, the choice of foreign companies in Austria has always been an essential element of social peace in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Just keep it up!]] You are very close to endangering social peace with unilateral measures at the expense of workers with what you are planning here tomorrow and what has already happened in the past. You mustn't be surprised if this location advantage was lost, which we would very much regret. [[Abg. Großruck:... Railways strike!]] For professional maturity examination also a few sentences: There have always been two tracks in the professional maturity test. A rail leads through adult education, and it is clear that the colleagues of the liberals are first of all looking at the professional promotion institute. Mr Schöggl! The highest prices have the WIFI; maybe take You also have this top rate before. The professional promotion institute, which is financed by the workers' chambers, is very much in there. You must consider: If you want to reduce these funds there, as your debate on the chamber environment shows, then you are doing bad in two ways to adult education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the School Education Act: Unfortunately, it is not an extension of the overall NAP, as Mr Großruck has said, but it is a two-year extension of a measure. That's just one measure. We have already talked in the Committee about the need to extend this form of schooling for a particular target group, which would otherwise not have a degree and which would otherwise be particularly difficult on the labour market, in our opinion over these two years. We shall try again, I shall table the following amendment again: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would mean that this measure, which is really becoming increasingly valid, could be ensured in the long term, Mrs. Federal Minister. We cannot assume that this target group will no longer be available in two years. We must be glad if it does not grow larger, so that it would be a useful step to enable schools to enter this additional training rail in general. In conclusion: Mr Schöggl and Mr Grollitsch asked where we were getting the money. Schweitzer meant it wasn't there. A proposal that might be acceptable: It's about 16 million schilling for professional maturity testing. You have loosened the sum of around one billion schillings by your decision to promote apprenticeships – so much so when we add social security and tax relief. A fraction of this would be sufficient to promote professional maturity testing. You just have to want it, you'll find the money, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22555	The amendment, which Mr Dr Niederwieser has read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22580	Mr President. High house! I am pleased that there is much agreement here in the House on these two legislative novels. The professional maturity test has established itself as an important offer of vertical permeability. In order to reduce costs, I would like to point out the following: We currently have so-called object promotion in the adult education sector. That is, we are promoting the organisations. It is up to the organisations to provide special financial support to those areas which are particularly important to them. If the organizations do not benefit the apprentices, then we need to consider how we can redirect these subsidies from the federal government so that they really benefit young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Rehabilitation of primary school is a real concern for us. We'll evaluate it. If necessary, this will be extended further. A word on what Mr Ddr said. The following questions were raised: He said there were unilateral measures at the expense of workers. . Since many workers are employed in my field, I would like to note that it is also fair for the benefit of workers and only for the benefit of those who take action today to ensure that long-term pensions are secured and that the social system is safeguarded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The measures taken are therefore for the benefit of workers and workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22629	Mrs Schasching is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22651	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Not only has the recent sentence fallen, but the government may be measured by its actions. This has been done in part. For example, if you look at the outcome of the workers' chamber elections, you can see: There was already a rejection of the brutal redistribution policy from bottom to top. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Incorrect information...!]] However, in my opinion, in politics there are already words of action. In the light of the recent past and as Lower Austrian Members, it is not only a matter of concern to me, but also a political commitment to respond to the actions of Mr Windholz, the new FPÖ chairman of Lower Austria, who, with his recent statements, has gained a very amazing reputation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: In the debate...!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What's the name of the Lord? Workers' name is that in Carinthia!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I don't think such SS words as the much quoted fall by chance. They may not fall awarely because, as in the case of Mr Windholz, they are obviously so anchored in the subconscious that they are ready at any time in the day-political events. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Workers in Carinthia...!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The last worker of the SPÖ in Carinthia!]] This mental orientation is also reinforced by other FPÖ politicians. [[Abg. May. Mr Schweitzer: Mr President! The professional maturity test is under discussion!]] I quote remarkable statements in this context, for example, by the FPÖ politician Hubert Gorbach from Vorarlberg from the "Kurier". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this the subject?]] He complains very much about it, because he thinks that the blues should show more self-confidence and not give in to small ones, just because we are being observed from abroad. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Say " decoder" once!]] It is indeed so, and especially now, in this difficult situation with abroad, it would require highest sensitivity. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why do you have such a shaky hand?]] However, I find the reaction of our Federal Chancellor remarkable in this context. He literally said he knew the SS motto, and it torn him. I would like to come here with you, Mrs Federal Minister, on this subject. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who is now a sports spokesman: you or Mrs. Prammer?]] Today, for example, Mr. Bundeskanzler referred to this in the "ZiB 1". [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The professional maturity test is on the plan!]] He said that, particularly in the field of education and training, attention should be paid to the current events that alert children and young people to SS language. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is crazy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: On the matter, Mr President!]] They must be made aware of this and made aware of it in the sense of political education. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: On the matter!]] He also expects a study. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The professional maturity test law is discussed!]] That's how I can discuss this. He expects a study from the Federal Minister, and he has said – his words – that: The Liesl will do that. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You caught the wrong speech!]] – Therefore, he would like to encourage a study that would enable more sensitive handling of such harsh statements. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's incredible!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! In the course of today's debate, which is also a question of discussing the educational measures originally and which my previous speakers from SPÖ have already set out enough, I would like to ask you: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Theme missing! The President is watching!]] [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Pervaded!]] How do you imagine this study? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The President's participation is remarkable!]] How will this study come about? What content will it have? And above all things: How will it be financed? [[Abg. Steibl: Will the master worker of the SPÖ Carinthia also be present in this study?]] We hear that the money is too short for education policy measures in the sense of lifelong learning and that, for example, the 8 000 S premium cannot be paid out. These are important issues that arise in connection with the current political situation. I would like to ask you to perhaps address it and to answer these questions. In this sense, I very much hope that the social cold that this Federal Government is currently making us feel will not also be received in your resort, in the educational resort. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e22966	No one has spoken about this anymore. That is why I am closing this debate. I come to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act on professional maturity examination, together with the title and receipt in 160 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give a sign of approval. – This was unanimously decided at second reading. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: (in the direction of ÖVP) Take an example!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You learn!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to the presentation, to give a sign on this matter. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Antoni and Mr Comrades on the promotion of professional ageing. Here again, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer is not for it again!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have to ask yourself whether he was even there in a vote! I doubt it!]] We shall vote on the draft Federal Law amending the School Education Act in 161 of the Supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. Mr Antoni and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. First of all, I will be voting on the amendment just mentioned and finally on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the print error correction made by the rapporteur. Deputies Antoni and comrades have tabled an amendment to delete the Z 4 in § 82 para. 5th provision. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The amendment is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer wasn't for that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why is Gusenbauer there in no single vote?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's paid by the party!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That pays the party...!]] We shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. This was decided by a very large majority, but not unanimously, at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. . I note that the draft law is also adopted by a majority in third reading, and that it has just been negotiated under one, not only the professional-maturity examination law but also the school-learning law. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer was not against it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Gusenbauer was not there again! He's not here at every vote!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] 27. Point report of the Committee on Science and Research on the 2000 Research Report (III-41 of the Supplements) of the Federal Government (162 of the Supplements) 28. Point Report and request of the Committee on Science and Research concerning a Federal Act amending the Research Organisation Act (163 of the Supplements) 29. Point Report and application of the Committee on Science and Research concerning a Federal Act amending the 1982 Research Funding Act (Novelle 2000 Research Funding Act) (164 of the Supplements) 30. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the 1999 Research Report (III-19 of the Supplements) of the Federal Minister for Science and Transport (165 of the Supplements) 31. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment 107/A by Dr Gertrude Brinek, Dr. Martin Grafund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the University Accreditation Act (166 of the Supplements) 32. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the motion for a resolution 110/A (E) by Mrs Kurt Grünewald and Mr Comrades on measures to counteract the fragmentation of competence in the field of science and research for years (167 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23192	We come to points 27 to 32 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There are no reports on this. Mr Dr. Niederwieser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23239	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I shall start with a motion for a resolution. This includes the substantial differences between us and the government parties. [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Research is the stepchild of this federal government. Research is still fragmented, it is affected by cuts, and the comprehensive strategy set out in the Green Paper is not being implemented at present. You know the saying: A mountain screamed, and a little mouse was born. – We don’t even have the mountain here, but we only have the mouse that is lonely and abandoned, which is called the Council for Research and Technology Development. We have heard many experts in the Committee and the Subcommittee and have taken along many good ideas, but the only thing the Federal Government is now presenting is the creation of a Council for Research and Technology Development. Estimated Members of the Government Party! A Council will not be able to replace your research policy. That is also the reason why we will not agree to these amendments, because we are simply too few in the current situation. In this context, for example, the Chamber of Labour rightly writes of lost opportunities of technology policy or the Chamber of Commerce in an important issue: Whoever doesn't force research and development, he saws the branch he's sitting on. We therefore propose comprehensive research policy measures. We cordially invite you to join this request and to confess to colour whether you really want to use the expected additional revenue for research. Yesterday, a report on German Telekom was to be read; Minister Schmid may know him. German Telekom wants to issue 50 billion D-mark on license fees in eight countries, including Austria. The sum calculated for Austria is 3,5 billion D-Mark; this is the war cash of Telekom. They can calculate what could actually come out of competition. What we need in research – and there is much of it in this proposal – is a strengthening of the business sector – it is underdeveloped in research – more resources and a better anchoring of research in society. It is therefore not understandable that: In setting up this Research and Technology Council, it is an important part of our society, such as the social partners. Mr Gartlehner will make another request. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Government is called forms. Parliament is called upon to do so if the government does not do it itself. It is not good words that benefit us, but clear statements on research policy and also clear commitment to this more resources that we will need – which, in principle, we all agree on and what you should see today, that we want from Parliament. Give the future a chance! Voices Let us ask you to do this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23312	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23336	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! We are now talking about several things in the field of research: on the one hand, about the 2000 research report, on the other, about a novel of the Research Organisation Act and the Research Funding Act. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We know that!]] – Yes, my dear Clubobmann is always with the consciousness. Nevertheless, I ask him to listen and agree a little. A small note to the Research Organisation Act: The amendment also regulates the working and co-operation of those units and elements in the institutions which work under the Labour Constitution Act. The form of cooperation with the Works Councils and those under the Works Councils Agreements should, of course, also apply in this area, even if it is not explicitly indicated and implemented on all points. This is important to me so that there is no room for interpretation in this regard. In addition, I can say to the proposal tabled by Mr Niederweisser: The concern is supportive. We have also had many good talks about this. I have also listened to both ministers in the last few weeks and have heard their words say that they are committed to increased funding for research. I ask or invite you to renew this commitment today. However, in terms of a source of income, so much so that the fur is already distributed before the bear is still slaughtered, we think it is risky, because perhaps this will weaken the market value of this stock. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] Let me address a few key points in this respect, which we have been able to raise in cooperation with the experts, in particular with the subcommittee debate on this subject. The first point concerns – and this is important, more important, I think, when it comes to Mr Niederwieser and his colleagues in the club – the establishment of the Research and Technology Development Council. This Research and Technology Development Council is intended to advise the government on the focus of research policy. It will also help to develop a research strategy and make monitoring proposals. I believe it is important that this Council should be sleekly equipped, with a total of eight members, including the chairman, that this Council should have a written report and that it should be able to work with the necessary equipment, taking into account an establishment office. Second point: These deliberations, in which the Council is to take a very transparent approach, are to take place on the basis of a differentiated evaluation programme or, more specifically, evaluation programmes. These evaluation programmes will work towards medium-term secure budgeting or budget planning. I would like, and I hope, very many of them to support the government in achieving the 2.5% of GDP target for research. We do not withdraw from this objective, even if we do not join the request of the Dutch. The aim is to value the quality of research and the social benefits that research can bring before the undifferentiated allocation. Third point: The aim is also to improve cooperation between university and non-university and economic research, as well as the recasting of long and short-term research programmes. If we have so far – and we have been taught in the Subcommittee – spoken of basic research and applied research, we must now think about medium-term, long-term and short-term research and also think about their needs in this regard. Fourth: Researchers, especially researchers' careers, should also be more well-designed. The ÖVP, which is committed to the mission of the self-determined woman, has gladly accepted the suggestions of Dr. Winiwarter to introduce a better au pair rule and, for example, to take better account of the deductibility of child care costs. Fifth point – this is very important to me –: In this way – I want to describe it – the "research research chain" does not tear off especially among the students, it must succeed to inspire children in young years for science and technology. In this connection, I quote Peter Rosei, the "Spectrum" of 3rd century. June of "Denkunst, ja Denkenangst" as "Inhabited for centuries" of the Austrians speaks: These should actually be avoided. Finally, six: The 2000 Research Report makes it clear that the statistical bases are still insufficient and that Austria is at the heart of a research area of Europe towards new efforts, including the challenge facing the USA and Japan. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude with Peter Rosei and wish with him that more "experimentary pleasures, the longing for the new, alien, courage and will to the truth" – "not much appreciated attitudes here as virtues" – may be added to our schools and universities, so that research can continue to go well and even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23382	Mr Dr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party – Please formulate the facts to be corrected and the actual facts!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23406	Mr Brinek referred to our request to reject it because we do not want a non-differentiated allocation of funds. I'll put it right: We have never proposed a non-differentiated allocation, but rather very precisely divided into several applications, for which these 1.5 billion shillings are to be used. The main part goes to universities and increases the budget to the one they had last year.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23476	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23497	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The Scientific Committee has dealt with seven points, and everyone who wins these votes will be pleased. Nevertheless, I would like to ask and come back to what has actually been the words and statements of the Federal Government. One of them said: "That's what we've got to do." – Now I would like to invite you to think along – but I! – you don't need to be a well-known researcher. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We've never heard that before, Mr. Grünewald!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what you hear selectively!]] Please? – No, I don’t hear selectively, I hear well! But, please, don't stop me now, because I'm really in a hurry today. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Of course I'll stop you! What do you think I'm for?]] That's what I'm asking myself now! To call in between, probably not, because that would, as it were, be a misuse of a clubman, and I would not think so. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: So I can question what you're saying! I need to ask you critically!]] - Well, that's it: "That's what we've got to do." - Don't you think? – I would welcome this! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now I've given you an applause!]] Then you can still hear: "Let the government work! We've done so much!" – First of all, that is to say, that the government should work, I can take a positive position because it is good for more and more people to find work, regardless of their age, their training and how they can be hired – however, it is good. But if you say, We've done so much! What have you done? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You didn't notice that? – Reform projects!]] – files, laws, novels, political opponents, the last Siberian tiger, university participation, access discussions – you have done all this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Jarolim, be careful!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Jarolim) The political judge!]] Good. Perhaps now a sentence that applies better to you – I wrote it down – is: "The ones you can still talk to seem to be getting less and less." – What I notice is that in front of the gates of Parliament I always give some of your club, sometimes even some from another club – not very often, but nevertheless – right. However, the gates of these glass doors are hardly closed, one tries to turn out the opponent and is subject to clubs. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's exactly the opposite!]] Reverse? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You always give us the right!]] Occasionally, yes. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: And if you get in there, you're against it!]] I'm not enjoying myself either. If you say something reasonable, I recognize that. Good. But let's come to a winged word: If someone outside says something different to me than he represents here, then, I believe, in this case, honor does not mean fidelity, but discipline, discipline and order. – That’s worth saying, and you can say it unpunished. The 1999 and 2000 research reports are correct, but not only from this Federal Government. We do not agree with all of this because we have wanted a strong scientific area, and we have been disappointed on this point. It was also denied, and it was denied that instead of being bundled, it was ultimately fragmented. One has promised 2.5 percent of GDP for research and development. Instead, one has been saved, but one has also denied that. Even when the experts in the Scientific Committee shared our criticism in this regard, they were silent, but without concern. We have criticized the negative effects of government on universities and their external relations. That is what you have denied! Now I come to a small positive point: We have put a question, and this was answered very correctly and properly by the Ministry, by its officials and by the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: She always does!]] So her name's not rabbit, it's not like she doesn't know anything. It has no other name either, but it is called Gehrer and has permitted that something has been said that the Federal Chancellor has denied. This is remarkable, and I thank you. A brief debate was held at private universities. We were never friends of the private universities, but believe that Austrian universities do not need to be afraid to build iron curtains in front of them and not allow private universities. We also give our consent to it, even if we do not love it, and are in favour of the recognition of academic degrees acquired there, because we do not wish to harm the students who choose to do so. Nevertheless, I am already saying something about the danger involved, namely that the finer society may in future be able to approve the finer training for its children. That, I think, can be observed with sharp eye. Although academic degrees are equated, it is necessary to ensure that the Accreditation Council takes its quality assurance and quality control seriously and accurately and checks whether these curriculum is comparable. The Research and Technology Council also briefly: There is already somewhere in the dark or, if you want to be friendly, I would like to call it this way, naive belief in the power and intelligence of some less strong men – women have not been talking about so far – and they should now suddenly know what Austria is doing well, what is harmful to Austria, what Austria needs, what Austria's future determines in research. – I have nothing against believers, but a discreet reality, as regards the question of whether these can be expected, seems to me to be appropriate in any case, especially if, on the basis of their conclusions, research is to be established and located, what the "main railways" and – as we are already on the subject – what are the "sideways" are. Are the "next railways" perhaps those areas to be shut down because their tracks do not directly lead to profit, to the economy, to banks and industry? But last but not least, a short thought. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: short!]] At the university you are used to asking at least occasionally: Why and for what? – That's what I'm doing. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] - You laugh! Have you never wondered, Mr. Klubobmann? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I haven't been to university for a long time!]] Yes, you can see that – apologise! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank God! Not in the ivory tower anymore!]] – "Thank God!" – Your colleagues at the university will hear this with smiles, but not with surprise. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, yes!]] - Good. What we are missing is comprehensible fault catalogues that could be indicative when it comes to putting actions in this way or that. The questions of why and what universities are, where their tasks and objectives are concerned, have never been dealt with very thoroughly, with which no one is responsible for those who sit on the government bank; this has gone so far for decades. The university's tasks were never specified, and differentiations with other tertiary educational institutions were rather micky. In times of budget scarcity, however, one now naturally tends to make differences and to wonder what ballast or luxury is, only – you will not give me right –: I have doubts as to whether this decision, which is ballast or luxury, and what is necessary or faster benefit, is always being made properly. I wouldn't necessarily rely on her. Now one last thing – you'll be surprised because you probably don't think it belongs here, but I'll say it anyway –: Worldwide – and I have looked at some magazines – 80 percent of the capital in 24 countries circulate. The per capita income is 200 dollars in Uganda, 39 800 dollars in Luxembourg. Life expectancy is 42 years in Uganda, 80 years in Japan. According to Business Week, the average salary of a manager is 326 times higher than that of a factory worker, and the 225 richest people on earth have more wealth than the poorest 47 percent of the population, which is 2.5 billion people. The University Organization Act states: Universities are called upon to contribute responsibly to solving the problems of mankind and to the successful development of society. For good reason, in all the reforms and all the papers on these reforms, I do not find a mortal word about this goal so high and not blue-eyed. This is a reason for me to ask you once again to think and not to agree with all that was designed on the drawing board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23781	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23802	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Science debates are apparently always a bit tiring. I'll try to bring in a little mood. Mr Niederweiser! The representatives, who will then form the Council for Research and Technology, will certainly thank you for being compared with the little mice you have drawn from the crappy mountain. As far as your request for the privatisation proceeds is concerned, there is certainly a lot of our thoughts in it. We will support this, but: There is a government programme in which this is defined, and there is also a commitment that privatisation revenues are intended for science and research. And you know why? – Because this government has recognised that the results of research and development are the jobs of tomorrow. So it is so simple to explain these links, and that is why there will be money for science and research! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: The evidence has so far disappeared! The evidence's not here yet!]] On behalf of Mr Greenewald: I know that the only organization he trusts and whom he entrusts everything in the sense of science and research and of corresponding reforms is the BUKO. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] But the BUKO is not the only blessing in this field. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Very good!]] Of course, the target must be 2.5 percent of GDP... – it is gone. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Green Forest has gone away!]] He gave his speech in the sense of the BUKO and left. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: If you say so to Mr. Khol, it might be useful!]] – Mr Klubobmann Khol knows about university policy, which is probably impossible to claim from others to this extent! [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I haven't been to BUKO yet!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] However, we remain in line with the objective of spending 2.5% of the gross domestic product on research and development. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is indeed serious. Today you can read in the "Press": "Austria has a large innovation deficit." There is a great deal of analysis of the previous shortcomings: Too few technicians, too little research. Austria threatens to fall back slowly. – The situation is really serious, but I am convinced that, after the weaknesses have been recognised, this federal government will work on it and bring about a sustainable improvement. Ladies and gentlemen! As part of the Committee's deliberations, we have heard a lot of interesting and understanding information from well-known experts. I believe that the government really does well to eliminate these weaknesses as quickly as possible. But irrevocable research objectives remain: These are the increase in the research and development rate, the better networking of university and non-university research with the economy, the creation of a research and technology-friendly climate and the focus on the strength analysis, for example the dolphin survey carried out. I am sorry that the Minister, out of service, is no longer taking a position on these issues. He strives for a new career: He has now become a European spokesman by the Minister for the Interior of Science and Transport. The picture is rounded off, and I wonder: Is it perhaps now going to work as a European spokesman in foreign policy? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Don't be so funny!]] I am still as funny as you are, Mr Jarolim! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Humor has not been put in your cradle. Their strength is rather cynism and sarcasm, but we already have to hear that enough. Ladies and gentlemen! It is an important objective to build and co-design Europe's research area. It is also an important goal to explore the double and multi-tracks also, taking into account the research of the resorts and to improve the cooperation of the resorts. I think that really important impulses will be to set. We put great hopes in this Council for Research and Technology to be installed. I once said in joke: From the Nobel Prizewinner up here we would like to have the exponents that will be used for research and technology. We have very high expectations, as has been said, and there will have to be priority-oriented guidelines, but there will also be an obligation, as stated in a committee statement, that the ministries concerned will very well have to comply with the recommendations of this Council. I think that the quality and, above all, the independence of this body – and there is a particular concern for us party-political independence – will be one of the roots of the success of this institution. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Write a big letter on this: "Party-political independence"!]] Yes, I know you always want that! You wanted this to happen to the judges, too! I know there is such a letter that they wanted to have more party-politically motivated judges. We will not forget that as soon as possible, Mr Jarolim. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Coming to the end: We will be pleased to agree to this measure, the establishment of this Research and Technology Council, because we really have great hopes. We want to replace headlines such as "Austria has a large innovation deficit" in Bälde – at least until the end of the legislative period, Ms. Minister – with headlines of the following kind "Austria is the top in research and technology!" – We will have to read this headline in the newspapers no later than the end of the legislative period! [[The speaker shall hold a document on which the headline is to be read in height]] - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e23994	The Federal Minister is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24015	Mr President. High house! Today, the research report is being discussed, and I believe that some very important trends should be derived from this research report. It should be derived from the fact that not the distinction between applied research and basic research is essential, but the development of medium-term strategies and long-term strategies. It is very important that we also develop indicators of evaluation, an evaluation that makes sense only if it is associated with consequences. The government's task is also to create the appropriate framework conditions, and this is also set out in this research report. The research allowance for various research investments has been increased from 12 to 18 percent and from 25 to 35 percent, and this has to be borne in mind. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But that was us!]] [[Abg. Ing. Gartlehner: We were!]] That's in the research report. I believe that this is important to maintain these conditions. The Research and Technology Development Council, which is also being decided today, will make a very important contribution to the content and structural definition of research. This Council for Research and Technology Development will be slim and will consist of eight people. I think it's important that it's a slim instrumentarium. This Council will apply both bottom-up and top-down procedures in order to give us the right goal when investing in research. Ladies and gentlemen! This applies to the important major research projects. In addition, I was concerned about budget creation, not to cut the financial resources for research remaining at universities, for the research areas that remained at the Austrian Academy of Sciences, but rather to secure them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to point out quite clearly that two important research institutions of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, namely the Institute of Molecular and Cellular Bioinformatics and the Centre for Molecular Medicine, are well financially assured that these projects will be implemented very well. I would also like to thank the President of the Academy of Sciences, Dr. Welzig, for founding these two institutes with modern means, for establishing a GesmbH based on modern models, which is a subsidiary and where these research is carried out together with the economy. That's a modern way, and I think that's also forward-looking. As regards the request here made by the SPÖ that we should now determine what resources will flow into research in the future, I must note that the government's intention is to make the computer billions available from next year's point of view. Computer billions, like museum billions, mean that we want to invest funds, both in the technological facilities of schools and universities as well as in research. I'm just saying we have a different way of dealing with the money. We are making a new form of financial policy: We decide to spend billions when we have them. You can be sure that we will invest in research and education!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24074	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24095	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These speeches by the government representatives on this topic tonight are all very optimistic, I alone lack the belief that there really is a change here, further improvements that go beyond those that have already been very clearly mentioned in the 1999 research report. [[Abg. Böhacker: Think positively!]] I am naturally a positive thinker – you know, dear friend – but there is really no real approach to let optimism take place here, where we know that the conditions for research and development in Austria have worsened with this new federal government. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's why I say it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's why we're surprised!]] The competences have been further fragmented. We've always dreamed of bringing them together. We have been particularly critical of you, because we have distributed this to two ministries. Now it is divided into four, divided into six ministries, and it has really been a very difficult situation for research and development in Austria. There is, at least in this year, less money – that is also official – and there is actually a decommissioning of the regional and social forces in Austria through the reconstruction of the Council for Research and Development. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's not true! Where?]] - That's the real situation. We have tried, in a motion for a resolution, in which we have received very concrete opinions from Parliament over the last two years and have reminded us – and some gentlemen, at least the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, voted in favour of revitalizing these requests, because, I believe, they are valid for the government which is now in office. Unfortunately, it is not possible for this government or the representatives of the government parties to vote in this House. I have to say: This is, of course, a very weak performance! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: They don't want to be reminded of the time with us anymore, I believe!]] Well, we weren't always satisfied with our own achievements – I admit that – but what you deliver here, ladies and gentlemen of the new coalition, is extremely weak! I only hope that the Federal Minister is right and that, if the money is cut from UMTS' licenses, she will be able to enforce it and then we will be able to discuss this demand that she does not want to carry out today and put it into reality. This is not a fantasy that we are talking about, but rather a figure that press agencies in Europe report: With the UMTS licenses, around 23 billion schillings will be earned, and we already want to orient ourselves on that. Our approach of 1.5 billion schilling as a minimum is a very serious approach, which only ensures that we have no less money than we have available in the previous year. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You always spent the money before you had it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense: I'm sorry to have to tell you that you really haven't proved yourself. They have not done a good job for research and technology policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24206	Next speaker is Mrs Wolfmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24228	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I worked on the material and the documentation for the large-scale research project AUSTRON, and I was fascinated by it. At this late hour, however, as I think, it will hardly be possible for me to deal with this subject very in-depthly and precisely. [[Interlocutory calls and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is a fascinating project that would be extremely important for site security and could make Austria a model country across Europe. In this way, a bridge head function to Western Europe would be possible – and this now, at the time of Easter enlargement! In addition to this, it would create at least 300 new jobs and training and training places at the top level for students, as well as the flow of around 1,000 international researchers and scientists each year, with one word on all that we urgently need. We have given God a rejection to nuclear energy. We are also, of course, skeptical of the employment and research of genetic technology. But I am telling you what we intend to do very well and what priorities we want to set in research and technology. Minister Gehrer has now made a follow-up to the establishment of the large research facility, which has been under discussion for almost a decade. But now I'm saving you a trip to history. In any case, there is already a public financing commitment or acceptance of over one third of the costs if the rest is raised from abroad. This rest of a total of around 4.5 billion schilling should be applied by industry and by foreign investors. The share of Austria could be raised by additional revenue from privatisation proceeds and, for example, by the sale of mobile phone licences. What is this about the neutron-spallation source? – To the technical statement only briefly so much: It is an alternative to neutrons that come from reactor sources, which thank God is pretty slow to become deficient again. In many countries these new sources are now being accepted for environmental reasons. As far as the pollution of the environment is concerned, it must be said that radiation is minimal. With neutron beams, you can see matter similar to X-rays, namely, lifeless or organic matter, and thus get through the structure and internal dynamics. With the help of this neutron-spallation source you can work in technology, but also in medicine in cancer research and treatment especially in children in a new way. In summary, I would like to say that this neutron pooling source clearly meets a market need. It is increasingly needed in research and industry. The available neutrons become less. We now have the opportunity to use a technology that is, in principle, conservative but modern. However, the decision should be taken soon. A yes or no is due. The project has been delayed for a long time, and actions are now being asked to be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24277	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24298	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In view of the time of day and the time of speech available, I will be very brief, but in the short term I will deal with the research report, which, after being discussed most intensively with experts, provides very interesting facts for all of us. [[Call: Nighttime]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I am of your opinion that short-term research in relation to the economy will bring success and money. However, it will not be feasible – our experts have clearly explained this – that long-term research will not remain in state responsibility: It will continue to be the long-term task of the State. Of course, we know that this long-term research costs a lot of money, but it will retain Austria's reputation overall and will certainly attract investors. One of my previous speakers presented the great success story of Chrysler Austria, and I would like to say that it is not only the craftsmanship of our mechanics and equipment builders, but also the good reputation of research policy in Austria. That is why I am very concerned about the current situation. The experts have called the situation alarming in the light of budgetary developments, not only because we are at the end of the European scale of those countries that spend money on research, but because in the 2000 budget, half a billion shillings are available for research and it is likely that it will be much worse in 2001. The experts have clearly and clearly shown us that, if something does not happen soon in research policy, our young researchers and capacities, simply and grippingly, will emigrate or foreign capacities will no longer come to us. If we have heard in the statement of government and in the budget debates that in this context we cannot actually talk about cuts, but only about appropriate adjustments in the field of investments and benefits, then I would like to say that these savings will ultimately very well hinder research. I do not want to quote every individual expert from Professor March to Professor Winckler, who has presented this to clear hand-fixed examples, but emphasize: Austria needs this internationally recognized major research, and Austria must retain its reputation as a research country! I am full of you, Mrs Brinek, when you say that our young people need to be put on the road to research. We discussed this on another occasion. In Austria we have many Olympics in the school field, whether in physics, chemistry or mathematics. That is why I ask you, Mrs Minister: What's going on with these Olympics? You are now lucky to be the Minister of Education responsible for both research and school development. That is why I would like to ask you, in particular, to give the Olympics every opportunity to access to research and to make it easier for them so that these talents do not bother!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24336	The next speaker was Mr Graf. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24354	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I too would like to take a brief look at the comments made by some of my previous speakers. I'd like to hold on: The criticism of today's decisions is essentially limited. When I think about what has happened over the last three or four months and how it has been done, what is not going to happen in the university, but also in the research field, I feel that the criticism that has come today is actually relatively low. Mr Niederweiser said: Government is called form, and it has only regretted that the social partners are not involved in the establishment of the Council for Research and Technology Development. – Mr Niederweiser! It was deliberately handled like that! And if this is to be the only criticism, I'll tell you: The social partnership – I suppose that it is really only about proporz and posts – has always been the stopper in the bottle on these questions. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: No! It's about know-how!]] And now we've pulled this one! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the future, it will not be possible to use researchers, capacities and also experts as advisers to the government, the councils, but also the other research bodies. - But I'm holding on: That was the only criticism you made today. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Where were the social partners Stoppel?]] – I’ll tell you that, but I want to keep myself shorter now. Secondly, it has been said that experts at the two subcommittee meetings reportedly gave alarming signals. Experts such as March and Winckler were led by a previous speaker. – Both were not experts in the subcommittee, in which you will give me the right! - On the first day, good. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes! On the first day!]] But both have not given an alarming witness, but they have all been known essentially to the research goals to which we all confess ourselves here in the house. The fact that the government and also the National Council are on the right track is also known. The expert from the European Commission has also shown several times that the programme presented is really ambitious. That was finally the Quintessence. If you say now that half a billion will be saved, that there will be less money, then I assume you mean the newspaper article in the "Kurier" of tomorrow. I would like to say to you: In fact, you were originally held again and again that there is too little money available in the Fund for Funding Policy in the field of research. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: I can read the budget figures myself too!]] We haven't heard this today, because it just didn't vote! It remains – to this end we confess – that it is also necessary to save at the universities. There's no place to lock this up. We have made specifications in the infrastructure sector and have agreed with all universities that concrete examples of deficits are to be announced, because anything cannot be implemented. On the other hand, on the other hand, there are commitments from the resorts that, after examination of such genuinely concrete examples, there will be additional funds. – To date, however, no single deficit has been identified! And I hope that it will continue to behave this way in the future – even on other topics that will concern us. Let's just leave the trampled paths on which you're always yelling: Money! Money! Money! I agree with Mr Greenewald, who said: The universities will still be allowed to ask the question of why and what. In the future, politics will also be allowed to raise the question of why and what. The universities must also learn to say why and what they need money for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If they can justify why and for what they need money, there will also be financial resources in this regard. The trampled paths, that you just say we need money, but don't say why and what, will have to be left. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] That will be the new policy! In this respect, the universities will also need to learn and catch up, and if the universities do not learn, we will give them additional hours to do so. They will have to articulate why and for what they need the money, then politics will certainly help them. I believe that this new approach will have to take place throughout all research and university policy. We need to depoliticize so that we can make some progress, and also eliminate the proporz where you still want it to be. Then there will be solutions. Mr Niederweiser! I'd like to remind you of something else. They themselves were the ones who said that there is a broad consensus in research policy, that we all have the same goals and that we need to find the way to the goal now. In this context, you have talked about the quality of the handshake that needs to be achieved in these areas. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You don't agree!]] I also reminded you in committee. If a finance minister in the government statement and in his budget speech promises that there will be shares of privatisation proceeds for research and universities, if it has been said several times by high representatives of this House and also by the government, then I now expect you to do what you always demand, namely handshake quality, as a precursor, and then measure us whether this handshake quality is given! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you: This handshake quality you have for years pretended that you have it will actually comply with this government. Part of the proceeds, the privatisation proceeds, will exist for research and also for universities – but not so to speak, narrowed in a small resolution, which will ultimately only reduce this to a privatisation revenue. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You said you were going to try to make a request!]] We've got four years ahead of us. There will be many privatizations, and you will see it at the end. I hope that you will also have a positive opinion on this when it comes to the quality of handshake. I hope that you will also give your consent to this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24513	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24534	Mr President. Minister! High house! As Mr Graf's announced and threatened follow-up hours for the universities can or will be seen. Mr Khol is already very pleased about it, or he is already looking at it, if he thinks about how the follow-up hours will look for the universities! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: He looks at you kindly, Mr. Colleague!]] However, I would just like to deal with one request, namely the request made by Mrs Brinek regarding the University Accreditation Act, which regulates that academic degrees of foreign private universities are equated with national degrees, not by individual nostrification for each student, but by a more or less institutional nostrification of the degree degrees by the Accreditation Council. This means that the curriculum of private associations must be equivalent to those of comparable disciplines at universities. This is a step towards quality assurance, which is indisputable, and that is something positive. However, I believe that we still have to wait for the development at private universities as a whole. At present, there are six requests, some of which seemed to me to be very obscene in committee. There are still many open questions to answer, such as the question of study fees, the question of the budget, the question of evaluation and also the question of whether the Federal Government's ban on funding and subsidies is preserved, so that no competition with state universities arises, and the question of whether the creation of two classes of privileged students can have a negative impact on the public higher education system. This must be examined in order to ensure equal access to education. The fact that student participation is not normized was and is essentially the weakness of this law. We were always personally of the opinion that this is actually a relatively superfluous law because there is no corresponding market for it. We also believe that this is not a step in the right direction as a whole, but that the content of this proposal represents a small step towards more quality assurance. Since Austria is still below the EU average in the research rate, as measured by gross domestic product, but also significantly below the average of the United States gross domestic product and, above all, Japan, it would be to be questioned how you will reach the advanced 2.5 percent research rate by 2003. – This is the first open question, and I ask you to give an answer. The second question is: How do you explain that the fund for the promotion of scientific research had to take a significant reduction, while the research funding fund was able to experience an increase from the resources of the Ministry of Infrastructure? – We think this is client policy, we do not consider it balanced! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not decided yet!]] - Okay! I take note that this is not yet decided. In any case, I would ask you to make a statement on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24585	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24603	I'm making it very short, I promised. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's how long speeches begin!]] - No, it's not. Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! New studies commissioned by the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs have shown that Europe is falling far behind America and behind Asia in the development of the economic area. This competitiveness in Europe continues to decline, because growth in these areas, in America and Asia, is so strong and takes place only there. For Europe, every competition will always be just one click away, even if the competitor is in America or Asia. We must also respond to this very massively in the field of research! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For Austria, it is therefore quite clear that we really need to invest a lot more funds in this IT area in order to bring private funds into motion. Municipalities, countries and private individuals also have to go along, otherwise we will remain behind. In this area, 85 000 jobs can be created in Austria by 2003, and the Lisbon European Council has given us the objective: Over the next ten years, Europe will become the most dynamic economic area in the field of information and communication technologies. A pan-European roadmap has also been adopted, and this roadmap has already been implemented in Austria by the ambitious e-Austria in e-Europe programme, with a focus on youth training. I would like to take a brief look at what is being done. Until 2001: All schools on the net. Until 2002: Training all teachers. From 2001 onwards: The computer billions are not intended to purchase computers, but to market highly qualified scientists and professionals with special IT training for these modern technology areas in Austria. High-school courses for telecommunications, information management, network technology and software engineering will be increasingly established. Ladies and gentlemen! What the EU wants is too little for Austria, however, because if we only implement this, Austria will simply become a good e-consumer, someone who buys these technologies from the others and then uses them. But that's not enough for us, because even if you drive a car, you don't have a car market yet. It has been shown that only in those countries where research, training and economic conditions really have absolute top quality and have synergistic cooperation, the environment has developed for the existence of e-speech products on the world market. The Federal Government has already decided to set up centres of competence for this declared objective. Now it is important to network these centres and also to bring researchers from abroad here so that they can make their training and pass on their experience. At the same time, however, it is in principle important to rethink the training of our researchers at universities. When you see that IT developers often do not have completed training with us, because the market is already bringing them before, it is clear that we need to keep the training much more flexible and shorter. Now my speech has become longer. I'm sorry! I would have had much more to say about this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24647	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24665	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I would like to take the debate today at a later hour on the revision of the University Accreditation Act to confront you, Mrs Bundesminister, with the question of which degree degrees you are presenting for future studies at the universities for pedagogical occupations. I believe that we must find answers to this very sensitive question at an early stage in the development phase. We all know that in the post-secondary field, far-reaching innovations have been made in recent years and developments have started, for example, regarding the University Organization Act and the University Study Act, as well as innovations concerning the art university, the technical education development or the emergence of the Bakkalaureat. Although the majority of these legal measures are framework directives for increased autonomy, it should be noted that the areas need to be more intensive and better coordinated. It is not clear how the academic graduations that can be achieved in each sector behave together. I have a certain degree of uncertainty here. I therefore believe that, in the interests of legal certainty for students, for graduates, but also for service providers in this area, it would be possible to clarify clearly. Furthermore, compatibility with the diplomas available in Europe should be required. Mrs. Federal Minister! Has Are you already answering these questions? Which diplomas will be awarded by the School of Education? What will be the relationship between these diplomas at the higher education institutions and the teacher's diplomas at secondary level? How will the relationship of the degree degrees at the higher education institutions be with those at the vocational colleges and those of the Bakkalaureat studies? – I am aware that these questions are likely to come very unexpected. If you do not answer today, I will allow myself to make a written request to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24706	Mrs Papházy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24727	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the new Federal Government has taken over a dissoluting financial heritage from the socialists and that universities must also make their contribution to achieving the savings target. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Before I take a note of the Danube University Krems. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Tell us something!]] According to APA report of this afternoon, another 495 million Schillings will flow to DonauUniversität. On the other hand, the head of the rector's conference, Georg Winckler, complains of the necessary savings in his field in the tomorrow edition of the "Kurier". Mrs. Federal Minister! I think that a balanced approach is necessary in this regard. From this point on, I have recently called the Danube University a barrel without soil. Mrs. Federal Minister! I repeat, but I think that an evaluation of the scientific outputs is urgently required before further taxpayers are placed under any title at the Danube University! Mrs. Federal Minister! You yourself, if I interpret you correctly, have recently spoken of the need for performance figures in the university field. Improvements in efficiency, structural development towards full justice and the recognition of private universities are necessary and forward-looking developments in the university area. In a comprehensive report, the universities themselves recently presented their ideas of an extended autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of the enlarged autonomy of universities is not in the empty space. Many other issues are related, such as the question of Pragmatization, the question of the creation of new incentive systems for teachers and the question of the establishment of private universities. The Pragmatization of professors can mean that they are located in a professional one-way street for just younger, dedicated assistants. The Pragmatization of assistants, in turn, blocks young people. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore support the abolition of Pragmatisation in favour of multi-annual contracts of benefit, while creating new incentives. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Variable, performance-related incomes should be introduced for professors and assistants. I am thinking of criteria such as holding courses and exercises, research results and publications. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I consider the university sponsorship I have already mentioned to be particularly important. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Individual faculties should also be able to improve their economic behaviour autonomously, with the deductibility of sponsors being an important factor. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The creation of a funded new research fund could also be considered in such a way that current research projects can be funded in the short term. I am thinking, for example, of things like the "loveletter" virus. Where a fund is available, experts may immediately deal with technical or legal aspects of the phenomenon and make research results available to everyone online. Such a fund could also set up practical centres to support new research and technologies of university members. For example, I am thinking specifically of the planned centre for e-commerce law and Internet law. Ladies and gentlemen! A financial reorganisation of the state universities as well as a reorganisation of the service law for university members can be seen for me in the context of the accreditation of private universities. In fact, university professors appointed at the time should also have job alternatives in their metier as well as others in business life. In this context, too, the equal opportunity side-by-side of private and state universities is an urgent concern for me. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The University Accreditation Act determines the tasks of the Accreditation Council. I am of course aware of the fact that the Council of Accreditation, still appointed under the Minister of Science, reflects the proportions at that time. However, it is not set out in the University Accreditation Act that the members of this authority are serving further experts, with me in principle asking the question of the reasonableness of the costs and the independence of this additional body. There are currently six applications from private universities. The purpose and purpose of the Autonomous Authority Accreditation Council is the objective examination of the accreditation promoters. The purpose and purpose cannot be for current or potential competitors to be used as an expert for the status of a private university and thus gain a competitive advantage through insight into documents and business books. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] The President of the Accreditation Council, Professor Helmut Konrad, assured me in this context that accreditation seekers also have the right to reject possibly captive experts. I therefore call on you, Mrs Federal Minister, to keep this situation in mind and to prevent possible partially motivated decisions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said from this point of view, the quality of a university is measured by the importance that its graduates have in the economy. We cannot have enough excellently trained university graduates who prove themselves in the economy! It was planned that the first private universities would be accredited before the summer. I think it is important to keep this timetable as objective as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: But our schedule too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal to amend the University Accreditation Act is another step in the right direction. The academic degrees awarded are in the recast academic degrees according to domestic study regulations. As has already been said: The institutional and ex-ante nostrification of the diplomas is thought to be an additional step of quality assurance by the accreditation board and should therefore, in my opinion, be immediately perceived by it. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to support this forward-looking request to amend the University Accreditation Act by your voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e24860	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Science and Research, the 2000 Research Report, III-41 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Without cast builder!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Gusenbauer is not here again!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Research Organisation Act, together with the title and receipt in 163 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer is asleep! And Schmid has birthday!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft research promotion law, title and receipt in 164 of the supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of this draft law, to give a sign on this matter. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer is still asleep!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to the draft law in question, to give them a positive sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Again without a cast builder!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Science and Research, the 1999 Research Report, III-19 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer is not here, Mr President.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Deweisers and comrades on priority for research, technology and innovation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This amendment is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of the square of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer consuming Abg. Dr. Niederwieser) The cast farmer has grown a beard!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer wasn't here again!]] Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the University Accreditation Act, including title and receipt in 166 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For the protocol: This vote without cast builder!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also unanimously adopted. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Without cast builder!]] Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of his report 167 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. 33. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Government Template (22 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Prohibition of the placing on the market of cosmetic products which have been tested in animal testing (168 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25063	We're now going to 33. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Pittermann spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25144	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I see that the ladies and gentlemen of this House are not used to night work. That is why I am going to keep my remarks very short. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why do you say that?]] – Because everyone is so sorry I could talk at night! I'm used to night work, it doesn't shake me. [[Call to the liberals: we agree!]] The more you interrupt me, the longer I'm here. [[Abg. Kiss: That's incredible! You're becoming more and more sympathetic to me!]] [[Further calls.]] I don't mind, I worked nights. I'm not hurting that. My group... [[Prolonged calls.]] If you want! We can take advantage of the speaking time I still have – I am the last speaker of my group. No, I don't mind. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You didn't put that much on!]] - Please? [[Abg. Haigermoser: You didn't put that much on!]] I can also extemporate. You don't have to worry about that. I can do that without a doubt. We Social Democrats have always been very committed to animal welfare. We also always wanted a federal uniform animal welfare law, but unfortunately this was not enforceable in the past legislative period. I remember, however, that you too have repeatedly called for this. Perhaps this is the result of this legislative period. We would be very pleased about this. For this reason, we also agree with this bill, which is necessary on the basis of an EU-wide directive. ==References== There are no more animal tests for cosmetics. It was very interesting when calculating on the various opinions to see that "the doctors against animal testing" in Germany were required to use as an alternative method material from operating cells or also material from miscarriages or from placents. If you reject animal testing, you will also have to go alternative ways. There really is a need for rethinking in terms of what may be ethically possible. I don't think it makes sense to use matter that no one can use, destroy, and not use, and, on the other hand, to carry out cruel animal experiments. This cosmetic directive concerns not only decorative cosmetics, but also body care products and sun protection products. Of course, the companies want to secure themselves. We think this law is very good. We ask you to consider together with us what alternative methods we can use for animal testing. But I do not want to stop your sleep any longer, I very much hope you will vote in favour of a federal animal welfare law during this legislative period, and wish you all a good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25254	Mr Leiner spoke next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25275	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I know it's very late. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Very early!]] I'll be very brief. I would just like to say the following: In the last legislative period we have already made a very good law that really does protect animals... – Of course, we have done that with you! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You were there? I thought you weren't there? You can hear that the ÖVP was never there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Oh, yeah?]] Of course! There are also moments when you are reasonable, you see! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now comes a further law, which I very much welcome. However, I would like to look back briefly at the fact that there has been a terrible time. Already in 1859, Claude Bernard published a corresponding book, which at the time was truly profound and revolutionary and in which he recommended animal experiments. At that time, animals were tormented in a very cruel way by being nailed and tied up, they operated without anaesthesia, according to the extremities and the abdomas. This was then carried on, and one must also point out that this was done in people: in prisoners, in prisoners of war, at Sträflingen, even in those persecuted politically. Now you've gotten away from it. At the time, the human soul was also laid away in natural science medicine with this laying down of the creature animal. One has already said in language usage: "the galle" in room 6 or "the stomach" in room 7. I hope that this will be better today and that human beings will again be at the centre of the agenda and that animal welfare will be brought back to the fore. We don't need the animal tests for cosmetics anymore, first because enough cosmetics are available, and second, because there is no safe moment. We know exactly that experiments made with a particular animal and a particular preparation do not provide safe evidence of the safety of the preparation. There's only suspicions or hypotheses about that. Thirdly, there are enough other possibilities, such as tissue cultures of skin tissue or chicken eggs. The embryos of chicken eggs can be used very well for this today. There are also new results at the Frauenfeld Institute in Stuttgart confirming this. We only need to ensure that adequate financial resources are provided for these alternative methods, or that there are also suggestions for them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25343	As the next speaker, Mr. Dr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25373	High Bureau! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear watchman! I do not spare you a brief contribution to this consensus law. I have already refrained from confronting social democracy with its failure in research policy, for example at the last item on the agenda. Your modesty in this sector – but also your shyness, my rulers, towards me! . has led to our research rate of 1.5 percent of GDP being somewhere in no one's country. But be it – the end of this long day is devoted to consensus. It is nice that we have found consensus here on this federal law on the prohibition of the placing on the market of cosmetic products derived from animal testing or verified with the help of animals. One thing must not have been forgotten, friend Leiner: As early as 1998, we could have implemented this EU directive in the context of an amendment to the animal testing law – the law of 1988. But the government then decided to use animal testing cosmetics until the last possible date – that's 30. June 2000 – to be left on the market. So now it comes to this small law, which, by the way, is the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations. The cosmetics industry is now forced to apply a method of substitution and to research without animal testing. The next step – this is addressed by the Federal Minister; she is turning her back on me at the moment – is in the execution area of your Federal Ministry, Ms. Minister. [[Federal Minister Gehrer speaks to officials next to the government bank]] The next step must be the further development of the animal test law. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: These are the first signs of alienation!]] This, Mr. Niederwieser, standardises in § 4, that animal experiments must be based on the accepted state of the sciences. In the meantime, the sciences are capable of substituting animal experiments to a large extent. Let us jointly support the Zauders, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, through a modern adaptation of the animal testing law! I really invite all of you to take this next step – also in the sense of fulfilling concerns from the animal welfare people’s desire – with us. Let us also make this a consensus matter and jointly develop the animal testing law! Good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25417	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25446	High house! You know I've been very active in animal welfare for a long time. That I am against animal testing is more focused on the protection of humans, because I believe that animal experiments are ultimately a dead end of research. The analogies between humans and animals are too vague to provide a safe protection. [[Congratulations to Dr. Leiner and Dr. Puttinger.]] – Thank you very much. Above all, animal experiments always lead to a very critical authorisation of substances, which often prove to be problematic much, much later in the ecological cycle. That is why it must ultimately be the goal of abolishing and replacing all animal experiments. But after all, I see this law as a first step in this direction. That's why I agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25486	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 168 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00029_d7e25534	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed requests were made for 177/A to 190/A. Question No 867/J to 919/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 7. June 2000, 9 a.m. The agenda shall be contained in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
