ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e1636	I'll open the 49. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 47. Meeting of 28. In November 2000, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. The representatives of Bures, Fischl, Gaál, Gahr, Lexer, Dr. Moser, Dr. Ofner and Mag are reported as prevented. Stoisits. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e1670	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasserwill be represented by Federal Minister Herbert Scheibner. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e1697	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 GoG to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the request 1202/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e1825	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 1202/AB to Question 1211/J by Mr Lunacek and Mr Comrades on the revision of the Austrian historical image by Mrs Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. This short debate is being held in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall take place at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e1850	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the Members of Parliament have requested Dr. Stummvoll, the Budget Committee for Reporting on the request 324/A of Deputies Dolinschek, Dr. Stummvoll and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Night Heavy Labor Act, BGBl. No. 354/81, and the holiday law, BGBl. No. 390/1976, to be amended, a period of until 13. In December 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (310 and 310 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2001 and Investments (370 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e1874	Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e1895	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 "Vienna hours" is proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 156 minutes, FPÖ and ÖVP each 116 minutes and green 92 minutes. The term of office of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the Secretary of State responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 10 minutes, shall be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries will be counted from the outset on the speaking time of the respective government group. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. - Thank you, that's accepted. Advisory Group VI Chapter 12: Education and culture Chapter 14: Science
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e1950	We are now entering the negotiations on the Advisory Group VI of the Federal Proposal for 2001. There is no wish for oral reporting. The first speaker to speak was Mr Antoni. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e1977	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Good morning. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Good morning!]] Today, at the beginning of the meeting, we are negotiating and discussing Chapter 12 – Budget education and adult education. Let me say, first of all, that we believe that We do not believe that the educational budget presented to you provides any impetus for the development and management of the necessary challenges in the education sector. Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! In reality, you have frozen the educational budget. You will reduce thousands of teachers, you will introduce tuition fees, you plan to introduce them in the postsecondary education area of school money in the foreseeable future, and in the sense of lifelong learning, you will save adult education these in the truest sense of the word. Your idealess lawn mower-sparing method is indeed an attack on the quality of our education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No serious educational expert, no serious education politician can claim otherwise. Again and again, talk about a quality offensive in education. But all of this is really not in keeping with what you've been presenting here and whatever you've done in the last few days. They irritate and insecure with these measures pupils, parents and teachers and all those willing to learn. Such incisive measures that you introduce here in a cold smile – I mean the Budgetary Accompaniment Act, I mean the Financial Balance Act – can only, if at all, be carried by those concerned if they are understood by them. But this information, these necessary discussions about it, you refuse. You refuse the discussion with the students, those with the teachers, those with the parents, and ultimately you also refuse the discussion with us opposition parties. I can remind you that it has been a long time since the last meeting of the teaching committee. Ladies and gentlemen! Then you'll be surprised if there's trouble with students, parents and teachers when there's a lack of understanding and resentment, and you'll be surprised when sudden threats are in the room. [[Abg. Böhacker: No, we are not surprised at all!]] Mr Schweitzer and Mr Amon will probably stand here once again today and claim that no teacher posts will be reduced, and the means of education will not be reduced. [[Abg. Böhacker: There's nothing more wonder about us!]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] They will say that in education everything is in the best order. Become more and more They quote old OECD statistics and old studies, which have been past years, and say: That's all not true. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No! ==References== July!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You do it, although You know very well that your statements and your findings do not correspond to the facts. For the longer term, we are no longer opposition politicians the only ones who say: More investment in education must be made! On the weekend, a discussion between General Secretary Lorenz Fritz and our party chairman Alfred Gusenbauer was to be read in the "Standard". It was your Secretary General Fritz, who gave Alfred Gusenbauer a right and said that he felt it was urgently necessary to continue to invest in education and training. Read it in the "Standard" of last weekend on page 10. I can quote Mr. Lorenz Fritz: "In accordance with your criticism, Mr Gusenbauer, I am "in terms of savings in education, qualification and research. There the public hand, even in times when one is apart, would have to invest very well." - Quote. The representative of the economy or even the representatives of the economy know quite well that investment in human capital, i.e. investment in our youth, is a crucial factor in competition in the economic sector and in the expansion of the Austrian economic location. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: Where are the investments and structural measures announced by you in the government programme, in various papers, in various speeches in the field of education? What measures do you put in place in the field of middle and higher schools, which are hopelessly overcrowded and which have class numbers beyond 36 – unacceptablely high? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The main schools are empty!]] – I have just spoken about the vocational schools. What to do Are you particularly interested in information and communication technology in order to provide more teachers? What measures do you use to promote the foreign language offensive? What are you doing to ensure that integration measures are not reduced for children with non-German mother tongues, for children with disabilities and for specific funding needs? - decommissioning teachers. How will you prevent the reduction of afternoon care? - With teacher reduction. What do you do to implement modern pedagogical education and learning forms, such as project work, team teaching, cross-border teaching? - decommissioning teachers. Ladies and gentlemen! You will answer me again today – I assume, because you have done so often enough – that you will carry all the needs I have mentioned. But in reality it is the case that the federal states are required that the Council of State Schools be required, that the District Schools Council is required, and that these things can be handled directly at schools in the course of autonomy. Schools have to be creative and flexible, always say. We could already imagine that. However, they have so far failed to withdraw the regulatory density at our schools at last. Only when you take this step will more pedagogical autonomy and greater flexibility be possible in schools. But the school organisation law, the school education law, the teacher service law does not deliberately affect you. With the non-impact of these inflexible measures, you really prevent structural improvements, but you also prevent possible synergies. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude by pointing out that adult education is still the largest stepchild in your education policy. Although your government programme focuses on continuing training Your education policy has been raised, freeze the resources for adult education at the lowest level. This is a blatant contradiction to the Court of Auditors' criticism and to many, many OECD recommendations. In reality, you have no interest in giving a clear impulse towards continuing training, towards lifelong learning. Ladies and gentlemen! For us lawn mower-sparing measures really do not represent structural measures. Massive personnel reduction, the introduction of tuition fees, that you are already threatening with school money, and saving the caputt in the field of adult education are not an educational offensive for us social democrats. They should give our young people opportunities and not take their chances.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e2088	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. The clock is set at 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e2109	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Antoni, I will not mention any old figures, I will bring new figures to show the situation of Austrian education in international comparison, the situation described in 2000. OECD expenditure on education is an average of 4.6% of the budgets. In Austria, expenditure is 6 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That was our policy! Mr Schweitzer! That was our government!]] Mr Niederweiser! I would like to make a few comparisons, according to Eurostat report of 12. In July 2000, the EU cut is always 100. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: That was our government!]] In the primary sector, Ireland 68, Germany 92, Sweden 145, Austria issue 166 evaluation points for education. In secondary education: Greece 44, Germany 85, France and Denmark 136, Austria 155. . The expenditure on education is therefore quite respectable, Mr Niederweiser. The costs for teachers are very, very high. 93 percent of the expenditure is staff costs. That is why it was necessary for the Ministry or the Federal Minister to consider what measures should be taken to ensure that these costs do not continue to explode. These staff costs are primarily due to the care conditions. When we look at the care conditions, we see that we are far better in international comparison. In primary schools 11.8, in primary schools 9.3, at AHS and BHS 9.7 pupils per teacher. – These are quite respectable numbers of caretakers. In addition, the fact – and to do so aim at these measures, which you so criticize and against which the AHS teachers strike, is also true – that teachers are relatively few in the class and carry out many other activities. Since there are not so many hours that teachers could be more in class, we must also employ them outside of class. Only 616 hours a year – that is the lowest value within the OECD – are our teachers in class. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Posch! In the AHS field, exactly 27 percent of the total working time of teachers is assigned to the actual, namely teaching. I believe that this value is extremely low and that it is not a problem if this value is raised by the measures taken. On the other hand, one cannot protest if one wants to make a responsible policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Antoni! I'll tell you a reason we have problems: The major problem is, on the one hand, the age structure, combined with the salary scheme. The average teacher is 45 to 50 years old with us today, and the biennial jumps make it much more expensive from year to year. The second problem is that under your leadership much more teachers were trained than could be hired. You never said, Friends, you just can't study anymore and hope you'll be hired too! – No one can expect a job guarantee. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] If he plans to study anything, he does, but he has no right to a job. He can study what he wants, but he still has no right to employment! You will have to take note of this once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Antoni.]] You have "broken" the following – I say it under quotes – under your leadership: 1980/81 we had 1,19 million pupils and 93,389 teachers, in 1996/97 we had 1 million pupils, down 200 000, and 112,461 teachers. That is, the number of students dropped by almost 200,000, while the number of teachers has increased by almost 20,000. Mr Antoni! It can't go well if you hire teachers because they've taken the right party book and say: Somehow we're going to accommodate you. Today we have comparisons from various countries and see that we have done far more than we actually need. This is the problem that this government has to deal with primarily. You are now going to take advantage of this situation that you have caused yourself and do nothing about your student representations or even allow these combat measures to be carried out under completely wrong conditions. What stands out from your trade unions in the letters of the teachers' colleges, for example from the academic gymnasium or from other schools, is quite adventurous. I would ask you for one of your speakers to comment on this: Why are the measures concerning the Custodiat and the Ordinariat no longer ensuring the afternoon care of children? Why, then, will more than 36 students sit in one class at a time? – That is not at all to connect with it. None of these measures are at the expense of the students. The only thing that meets the teachers is that there is equal pay in the future for the fulfillment of a ordination or Kustodiat, no matter how old or how young the teacher is. If the old people worry so much about the boys, they are free to let the ordinations and Custodiates make the boys so that they can earn more. That is absolutely no problem. The burnt out older teachers could well be so social, saying: Young colleagues, make her the Ordinariat, make you the Custodiat. – That would be absolutely no problem. I'd like to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Niederweiser! Come on. You are out and explain to me why individual support and educational advice by the class board will be avoided by these measures! Come out, explain! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Explain to me why the choice of constituencies is drastically restricted by these measures, why current teaching material can no longer be purchased! – This is not true all that is claimed by your trade union, by the teachers who call on you to send these letters, to insure parents and, in fact, to carry out a dispute about the money on the back of the students. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But this is very true!]] That's why it's actually happening. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is about purely political calculation, which is behind it, especially behind the strike measures of the AHS teachers. Perhaps you had an opportunity to follow up the discussion with the trade union representative. It was relatively simple: If one asks for something without being able to argue, then one cannot win a discussion if there are no reasons for these demands or if there are no arguments for what is being claimed. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I say it again: With these false claims, you will not strike political capital. These fighting measures that you support are not justified. These fights will result in many hundreds of thousands of students on the streets in the morning. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These fights mean that many parents have to worry about the time that students spend unsupervised. You may have to take a holiday day, because – borne by you, provoked by you – fights take place that have absolutely no permissions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They want to undermine the rehabilitation policy with these measures. But you won't succeed. We will make further proposals on how we will get under control of the education system in the future. I am eager to discuss whether you are willing to give up your red occupations in many areas, if there are more qualified people, if you are willing to agree to performance-related payment, as we imagine you are willing to agree to an educational account such as Mr Amon and I have proposed, so that it will also be more competitive in the field of education. That's all we're looking at. [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] You can now come out and give answers, say whether you are at least constructive about this project, whether you are discussing it with us and, if our proposals are good, you will also agree. Come out and get a position, and don't make on the street politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e2246	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. The clock is set to 15 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e2276	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer always provides an occasion for you to react only to him at all, but the speaking time of 20 minutes would not be enough. I'll take it for the end. First of all, I'm going over to the important things. Mrs. Federal Minister! There are two interesting interviews from you that I have read in recent days – one in the "NEWS" and one in the "Small Newspaper". On the basis of these two interviews, I would like to draw attention to the problems of the 2001 budget and the measures of the budget accompanying legislation. The first statement I want to quote from "NEWS" was your opinion: "In the public, those who represent things wrong. This is not good for the school, not good for the reputation of the teacher." Mrs. Federal Minister! At first, I wasn't sure that this is an act of self-knowledge and understanding, because you and yourself simply didn't picture different things as they really are. In the course of the interview, however, I learned that it was obviously not an act of self-knowledge, but was very likely again aimed at those who have expressed criticism in recent days. I would like to point out once again, on the basis of an example, that the figures you mentioned in many areas are simply not true from my point of view. Let's look at the class board scheme again. Again and again, in every newspaper, you are quoted with this, Mr Schweitzer has also approached the speaker's desk and said: Now there is a new scheme: 20 000 S are now paid for the class board of directors. Everyone gets a lot. – That's right in the AHS area. That's the right thing to do. It is, however, a half-truth. It is a half-truth because you do not say that 9 000 S has been paid so far through two rewards – you will know from the AHS area – and these 9 000 S are no longer paid. Since this is not paid, it is now not a payment of de facto 20 000 S, but of 11 000 S. [[Abg. Wenitsch: That's good too!]] Now I'd represent it like this: Let's assume that someone makes a tax declaration and says he has issued 20,000 S – let's say – for literature. Then he gets 9 000 s back from his employer, and he doesn't write that in his tax statement. [[Abg. Großruck: Don't create something!]] What about it? – It is likely that a half-truth will quickly become an incorrect statement, and everyone who would do so would have problems. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Do not create horror scenarios!]] I would expect the numbers to be presented by you as they really are. A second point then let me stop from the tone and showed me that there is more behind it. In the "Small Newspaper" you say: "A teacher who is a class board is 50 minutes more in the class in the 38 school weeks next year." – Of course, that’s so far. But to this thing with the emphasis of the 50 minutes: Teachers actually don't work hours, but only 50 minutes, but let's put it there. The fact is, however, that one hour more work does not mean 50 minutes in the class – otherwise we could say now that they should work 40 hours – but that teaching activities also include preparation and follow-up and much more. That means it's not about 50 minutes of extra work – I can remind you: it's 1,11 units of value – but that's more than 2 hours a week. I would like to give another example of how the figures – perhaps pleasing to the general public, but not to reality – are presented by you in public. The third point is the reduction of apprenticeships. There were original questions in the "Small Newspaper". I quote: The editor said: "Good. Let's talk about Peter M." Your answer, Mrs. Minister, was: "Who is Peter M.?" On the subject of the editor: "AHS teacher. 32 years. Two children. Facherkombination German/English. I had to wait seven years for the employment. Now, half the teaching obligation, limited. 18,000 gross. Peter M. flies out of the boat because the class boards have to teach you one hour longer. What do you say to the colleague?" Your answer: "There can't be such a case like that." The editor: "We could call you a dozen." Your answer: "Well, if he has to preserve his family and is a single teacher, then the National School Council will take care of it." That's the one statement, and I'll also quote another one, and then I'll ask myself how you can actually know that. On the question of "NEWS", where the savings will have an effect, you will say literally: "I don't know." The following question follows: "More children per class? Grid: More children, no. I don't know." And then you say again and again: Infringements are excluded. I therefore ask you: If this fall of hardness is excluded, who loses his job? Those who only have a child? The ones that – I don't know – only have an apartment or else only have to somehow secure the livelihood? – They do not define "hardness cases". Always accuse us that we don't bring any figures that we're not really arguing. As a minister, however, you have the responsibility to put things on the table – that is your responsibility! - but there's nothing there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to return once again to the question of the decommissioning of the posts. If I knew the numbers, you would really present the calculations to me, then I would be quite prepared to say: I agree – I do not agree. I don't know her, though. You said in the Committee that the aim of this Federal Government is to freeze staff costs during this legislative period. To ask how long they should be frozen, you answered with a Bonmot and meant: Elections are decisive in politics, and if the next elections are, this may change. Let us assume that the next elections are 2003. This means that we have three budgets in front of us, which are to be presented by this Federal Government: the current budget 2001, the 2002 budget and the 2003 budget. And you literally said: The budget is to be frozen during this legislative period. In the paper you are now quoted with: over the next two years. – But that is not in line with the legislative period. We can agree on this: If it is to be frozen for only two years, it is only about 8,000 jobs. I take back the 12 000 jobs from the last time you take back that you want to freeze by 2003! Otherwise, we come – and this can be calculated; the structural effect, which you call by 3 per cent, is about 2 billion schillings per year at 70 billion schillings – if that has to be saved, in about 4,000 places, at least from the equivalent, however it happens. The measures you are now taking are interesting, because if class board work is paid extra and the budget is not increased, then that means that even less is available and the reduction has to be even higher, because you also spend money on a particular area, but freeze the total amount. From my point of view, it will be more – but we can still talk about the mathematical brilliances of the system. I come to another point in the "Small Newspaper", which I liked very well, namely to your statement: "We must be careful in the government that we do not maneuver into a vortex, where a new one is replaced by the other and where a total uncertainty arises." Mrs. Federal Minister! You said in the Budget Committee that we decided to set up a system for compulsory school teachers, which is not to enter into force at all, because Mr Helm's model is to be decided before the beginning of the next school year, and therefore we do not need the scheme. They adopt budget accompanying laws, of which you have announced as a goal that we do not need them and that they should be changed until the in-force step. This is the vortex you're talking about here. This is the policy you are insecure with, not we, not the opposition. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I come to the protests of the teachers. Also a quote from you: "And there are some who defend the privileges. In my opinion, they belong to the left half of the empire, and they bring uncertainty." [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Reichsdrittel!]] Reichsdrittel, okay, a little more limited. I'm telling you now a mailing list, it's called 'Teacher Forum', I'm telling you how you get there: You only need to write there in "Majordomo@ccc.at", and then enter: subscribe: Teacher Forum. Then you'll get all the e-mails that go into this teacher forum and you'll see that there's a lot of it down there: FCG Trade Union. I do not know whether you are already using the line between "left" and "right half" in your group. But I find it remarkable when all these persons are called "left half of the empire" – probably "mailing chaots" or so, according to the division of the government parties. Your trade unionists, your own people are not the "left half of the empire". Many of the numbers I call here, I take from no one else from calculations coming from your union. So you probably have to take the uncertainty on your cap if you don't succeed in convincing your own people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But now you have not said anything about these strikes! That would be interesting!]] . I come to talk about if the red light does not shine too early, I will also address your statements, Mr Schweitzer, but there are more important things. Last time you said we should answer that. We did it, but you weren't in the hall. The question to the SPÖ have She asked for the last time, but if you go out every time a question is answered, that's a smooth game, because answering a question once should be enough. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But now I'm here! Once again!]] Okay, if you sit down, maybe it's still going on. On the polemics you brought last week, Mrs. Minister – I deliberately call it "Polemik" – I am so law-worthy and I only want to negotiate laws in the committees. What I meant – I said that too – is: I would like to talk about the content of the education system, but these contents are not a subject in the teaching committee in connection with the government's education policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Mr. Brosz! Tell us something about the teacher strike!]] I would like to talk about your statement, which I support: There is a huge increase in knowledge, there is a great exchange of knowledge within a few years. Knowledge has reached a half-life of only four years. That's all we can talk about, but I'm wondering, What are the consequences? What are the structural results, the answers of the education system? Of course, there are teachers who are very committed to responding, but it is the task of politics to shape the framework conditions, to change teacher training, to change the structure of the school system, to launch a functioning technology offensive. – Your technology offensive occurs in every newspaper, but I hear it is that 400 students are rejected from a single HTL. That's the technology offensive? That is the answer to the fact that FPÖs prevent foreign workers from being brought into core areas? - Set You're a sign! Put it on! Bring new training places! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Antoni.]] As I still have speaking time available, I can now deal with your statements, Mr Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Say something to strike!]] For OECD figures: They always say Austria has such high educational expenditure. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Eurostat was that! July 2000!]] - Eurostat, okay. Have you ever considered that this statistics is also about not falling to the lowest point? The criterion of education cannot be: Whoever spends least makes the best education. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Austria is at the front!]] Yes, this is also a merit, and I am very proud of the fact that there is an educational system in Austria that enjoys a corresponding value, and that not, as in other countries, educational expenditure is reduced at the expense of private funds, namely those who have to pay school fees. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: So, what are you sorry about?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This concerns public expenditure!]] It's not about: Zero-deficit – zero formation. That's something else, maybe you shouldn't throw that into a pot like you always do. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This concerns public expenditure!]] Staff costs: 93 per cent of staff costs. Yes, of course, but why? – Because in recent years, in all other expenditures – you have not been quite wrong to show there – has been saved, wherever you could easily save, and that was not the personnel costs, but everything else. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of SPÖ) There are the reasons!]] Progress projects, accompanying measures in schools, all of this has been shortened. That is why the percentage now is much higher, but from my point of view it is not a measure. For remuneration: Take a look at the reward in the international comparison. Do you think that Austria's teacher is above average in the international comparison? If so, then prove it. What you're right with is the age structure, and I'm going to ask you to do it. Only: You can't just say how my colleague Grasser did: In the beginning you should leave it that way and later you should screw it back. This has to do with a flattening of the pay curve that we all call for – I think that also demands SPÖ, we definitely demand it – to do nothing. [[Abg. Amon: But if we do, you are against it!]] The distribution of life's income cannot bring any savings, so it's somehow different from what you're presenting here. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Let's make a performance-dependent salary!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Let's make a performance-dependent salary! Are you there?]] On the question of pedagogical activities. You said: Teachers should turn to the actual, educational activities. The actual thing in the school is not that a teacher is 40 hours in the class. That can't be the goal, can it? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But 27 percent are few!]] You do not say what the goal is; you name it only for reasons of savings. They say: a pedagogical model. What should a pedagogically well-designed teacher’s career look like? What is he supposed to have? What's he supposed to be like? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The service company School regulates all this alone!]] They're just saying save, you can get money, that's the goal. But this is not an educational policy, it is the policy of saving money, and I do not like it in the field of education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Say something to the strikes!]] I'm gonna say something to the strikes now. I have said that I consider the strikes to be a real sign – and I think so – because it is simply because it sets out measures that shape the education system to an extent that is very relevant. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Very good!]] It is said that 10 percent of posts are to be reduced to three years. What this means for the education system, you can imagine. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Absolute Nonsens!]] From my point of view, this is very serious, and I am therefore in favour of the fact that a sign is now being set by those concerned – and that certainly is also the teachers. On the constant accusations of "chaots" to the demonstrators and those who spread "untruth": I believe that the calculations of those in schools and their statements are already credible. Minister Gehrer always says that there has been no savings that there are no savings in the integration area, that all this does not happen. I'll tell you: Go to the teachers, go to the schools, and ask what is happening now! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Explain to me a single claim: Why do the schooling numbers rise by this measure?- Oh, my God!]] - I didn't say that. The number of students has already risen de facto. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why do they rise through this measure?]] Quite simply: because, for example, the units of value have already been quotaed this year and, for example, on the basis of the financial compensation. That's clear. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He has no idea!]] It says that the relationship between teachers and students should decline. And you probably won't put the teachers in the classes to the extent that they compensate it. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That does not mean that the schooling numbers are rising!]] Last word on the combat measures: I hope that they will succeed and that they will not have to last too long. No one can be interested in the fact that there is a long stretch in schools. Once again there is a willingness to discuss once you, the Minister, the ÖVP, are ready to enable consensus or dialogue, that will no longer be necessary. But as long as this policy is made by this government, it will be legitimate to oppose it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e2706	Next item is the report by Mr Amon. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e2728	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much, at the beginning of my speech on this budget chapter on behalf of my group, for your excellent cooperation, Mrs Federal Minister, with your employees, with your officials and with the staff of the clubs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ: "In the name of the teachers" you must say!]] – Of course, I am still speaking to the teachers, I have sufficient speaking time at my disposal, but I would like to start by referring to the statements made by the two previous speakers, Mr Brosz and Mr Dr Antoni. Dr. Antoni, you are speaking again today – the constant repetition of this argument does not make this statement more correct – of a ballast in the education system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hannes Bauer.]] You're talking about a "rasen mower method", and you're talking – literally – about a "attack to the education system". I'm telling you in all clear terms: If 13 percent of total budget expenditure is spent on education, if we have a plus of 1.7 percent in the education budget, then this is not an attack on the education system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You know, I also had problems when more or less overnight – although there have been discussions for many years – 5 000 S tuition fees were introduced per semester. I therefore thanked you for your good cooperation at the beginning of my remarks, because we have really been able to achieve a great deal in connection with the social suspension of these tuition fees. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: There's something "fearing" for you!]] I would also like to say this because I dare to say today that no one in Austria alone will not be able to complete a studies at an Austrian university on the basis of the introduction of this study fee for social reasons. We have ensured that aid and grants are extended to cover both width and height. We have ensured that the family aid is preserved in the current form. We have increased the amount of credit for the students to 100 000 s and introduced an annual calculation. And we're offering an almost pointless loan. This ensures that anyone who wants to study in Austria can also study in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Brosz and Mr Antoni. They say: More expenditure on education means 1 : 1 also means better quality in education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Antoni.]] Yeah, you said it earlier. [[Abg. Brosz: I just said it the other way around!]] Well, then, Mr Brosz, if you have said so in reverse, the reverse is allowed. If you have said that those who spend the least for education have the worst education, then the reverse conclusion is that those who spend the most have the best education. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] I tell you, however, that all international studies prove that this is not the case. All international studies also demonstrate that not the issue of high schooling for the quality of training is crucial. Interestingly, those who have the highest level of class students, such as the Japanese and the people in Singapore, are most likely to cut off in all international studies. That's very interesting. You should take note that this is not the case. It is not true that an increase in money for education automatically means better education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They criticize the new rules relating to the class boards and the Custodians. You have – I remember very well –, when we changed § 61, criticised that the counter-accounting model leads to the sudden absence of school skiing courses and excursions in schools, because we take the overtime for teachers. Now we are changing this § 61 – Mrs. Federal Minister has already said at the introduction that she will accompany this very critically – and now suddenly no school skiing courses and excursions can take place again. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's exactly how it is!]] This argument is cockbucks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you look at the current study on teacher working time, you will find that AHS teachers spend 13 hours and 28 minutes – that is their self-evaluation – teaching in the class. I would like to expressly say that the majority of Austrian teachers provide excellent training in our education system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let us look at the following: In our country are 122 000 – 122 000! – Teachers are employed, and we have 1.2 million students. This results in a per capita number, student/teacher, of 9.83. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Come to a teacher – yes, it's a milk girl bill, that's right, that's a simple division – 9,83 students. I ask you: Do we not have to put the structural measures in such a way that the ratio is equal to what this division produces? How do you get to your high school, I ask you if there are 1.2 million students on 122 000? - That's the problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Question response from the Minister!]] If we say today that someone who exercises the activity of a class board will no longer receive a discount hour in the future, but this... – Mr Posch, I understand something of this, but obviously you ignore the problem. [[Abg. May. Posch: Don't talk about things you don't understand!]] Their only argument in the education system is that there must be more money, because that means better education. Otherwise, you don't mind! The answer to this structural measure – and it is a structural measure – cannot be a strike at the expense of the students. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the Austrian population, the understanding of these strikes is very limited, I can tell you, Mr Posch. Mr Posch, obviously you understand the problem... – Mr Posch, could you please lend me your appreciated ear? - He doesn't lend it to me. [[Abg. May. Posch has a conversation with Abg. Dr. Pittermann.]] Mr Posch! They suggest I don't understand. But obviously you don't understand anything about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Tell workers and employees who have no job guarantee, why those who have a safe job have the highest share of strikes in our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Tell that to those who claim to represent you. There is no understanding of this. I would also like to say very clearly, Mr Brosz, that: There is also no such thing as an employment guarantee when someone completes training. The only way to regulate this is through limited study places – but you don't want to. They want a plan economy for the labour market. However, we clearly reject this plan economy for the labour market! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Brosz: You change the rules of the game with your actions!]] With these structural measures we are setting, we are also taking a first step towards the principle of seniority, because in the future, young teachers working as class boards will receive higher income, and older teachers will lose nothing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] This is also crucial in this measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The young teachers are no longer employed!]] That is why this measure makes sense and is good for the Austrian education system. Finally, I can tell you one thing: The schools that are currently writing to us and the social-democratic trade unionists who are currently writing to us and informing us of what school measures can no longer be carried out, we will look very carefully. We will... – No, no! [[Violent calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP representatives.]] This is not about it, Mr Edlinger. As the slug thinks – that's how it looks! They want us to be repressive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In no way, but we will look at this very carefully and see if this is not said to try to prove an unsocial measure that is not available.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e2983	Mrs Gehrer is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3005	Mr President. High house! Education must always be responsible. And for me, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of responsibility if fears are startled with false claims. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that those who pass on these false claims to the parents about the students must also bear the responsibility and stand for them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It has nothing to do with the structural measures that it is announced that ski weeks, sports weeks will no longer be held, that the students will no longer be advised that they will be finished just before the conference room, that there will no longer be any free items, that teaching materials will no longer be obtained. This is absolute panic and absolute error of the parents! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased with everyone who practices constructive criticism, who is positively involved in a future discussion, but I refuse to insure with false reports. It is always called upon to mention numbers. [[Abg. Brosz: Open the calculations, that's the point!]] In many committees – whether this is the teaching committee, the education committee, whether that is the financial committee or the budget committee – I have put all the figures on the table here in plenary several times. In addition, I assume that everyone can read what is on my homepage. There you can get any information about any structural measure. I'll explain it to you once more: Structural effects are necessary in order to stabilise the personnel costs – we have agreed with you in the coalition talks, and we continue to do so. These structural measures are discussed with the trade union. A class board will receive 20 000 S per year for this activity, for which he will be more in the class for an hour. Do you know what the young colleagues say when I talk to them about what they want? – They don’t want to work less, they want to earn more. And that's a good attitude. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: But first they must have a job!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Let the boys do the class board, then it works!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of these structural measures, 650 service posts will no longer be re-occupied in the AHS area and 650 service posts in the BHS area. We have a total of 40 000 posts in these areas, and 4,000 posts are still overtime, 2.6 billion schilling are spent overtime. In the case of a reasonable classification, these 650 posts are collected: by retirement, reduction of overtime and the early retirement model. That's our social plan. That's just and reasonable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you look at the budget, you can't just pass the facts: The education budget will be increased. Look at the schools in our country. We have the most modern and most beautiful school buildings, we have the best facilities in the schools. We are at the forefront of Europe in this area. You must finally take note of all of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Abg. Huber: This is the shrapnel you're always talking about!]] It is always called on to focus on new communication technologies. Ladies and gentlemen! I've been doing this for five years, and I can't spare you to say the priorities again. 50 percent of all teachers already have the computer leader's license, the remaining teachers are trained by the PIs. We have introduced the Department of Informatics, which starts in the winter semester 2000/2001 in Vienna, Klagenfurt and Salzburg. Years before, they talked about it, but they didn't. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Ing. Herbert. L. Graf.]] There will be a Backalaureates study in Graz in the ICT area. The educational institutes have ICT focal points. All Austrian schools have Internet, are well equipped. We are on the same footing with the Scandinavian countries. [[Abg. Brosz: It is about training places that are missing!]] We offer the focus in the trade academies, in the HTLs and in the specialized schools. We will have 20 000 graduates each year who have a basic ICT training. I had a big economic summit two days ago. We define the objectives common to the economy, set the training priorities, adapt them constantly and modernise them. We are far ahead in the field of new communication technologies and we offer the necessary training. We have the computer billions in the next budgets, we will use them sustainable, sustainable and reasonable. I'm curious if you have a positive attitude in these activities. Ladies and gentlemen! To the strikes that will take place next week, I must say: I regret that the AHS teachers, through targeted misinformation, are taking these measures that are missing sight. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] But I thank everyone, the many teachers who act with an eye, who know that a redeployment of the function of the class board has no influence on outdoors and sports weeks. I thank the more than 80 percent teachers who know that teachers are more than one job, that it is a responsible future job. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] And that's why I'm saying, Being a teacher is more, and parents need to be able to leave school. That's responsibility! The aim of this government is the quality of education and the responsible handling of taxpayers' money. This is new government in a new time!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3166	Mr Dr Antoni spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you politely, § 58 para. 2 GoG and start playing the text you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3191	Yes, Mr President. – Mrs. Federal Minister, you are always speaking today of the fact that class boardwork will be paid in the future at 20,000 s a year. This statement applies exclusively to L1 teachers, and we do not have so many of them. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's right!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who's stretching? Only the L1 teachers, the AHS teachers!]] But we also have teachers in general education schools. The primary school teachers get 15 000 S in the year, the teachers receive only 7 500 S in the year, but they hear only the statement: 20 000 S for the class board work.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3271	The next speaker was Mr Dr Niederwieser. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3298	Mr. Schweitzer, you wanted me to come out, now please listen to me! - Yes! Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Are you talking to the school?]] Mr President. High house! [[New calls from the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Mr Schweitzer has twice asked me to come out and comment on the question raised, and now I am there, and he is talking to anyone. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: With you!]] – This is not polite, Mr Schweitzer! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I listen to you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, a few words have been added to this debate today, which are far beyond education policy. Mr Amon said: We will take a close look at the people who are spreading false information! And the woman minister – and that kind of surprised me – also meant looking at these things. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[Abg. Edlinger: What's the matter?]] [[Call the SPÖ: Mr President, please!]] And this is the difference between "government new" and "government old": At that time, when we were still in the government and were being demonstrated against us, we never thought of taking any sanctions against those who intended to protest against us. They, on the other hand, threaten sanctions! That's the difference! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And that, Mr Amon, is the difference in democratic understanding between "government new" and "government old". That is also what you and this government have left between the lines, but clearly enough the three ways: You should not do such things, namely: We'll see who writes a wrong line to parents! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Go, please, that's ridiculous!]] This is a rejection, Mr Amon. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Mr Amon, and in particular Mr Schweitzer. Let me now present – let us say so – how little Maxl is so imagining my day. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who is the "little Maxl"?]] – The small Maxl is the one who comes out here and thinks that the science speaker or the education spokesperson of the SPÖ only needs to call and say: [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is discriminatory: "the little Maxl"! This is discrimination against young people!]] Mr Janchitsch, don't you even want to strike? Mr Neugebauer, we would be pleased if the ÖGB, the Public Service Union, would take a strike decision! Already at half past seven in the morning, the Chirac called me, asked me what he should do now! – This is how little Maxl imagines the day of a Social Democratic MP, and that is probably a nonsense special! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is a nightmare!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have to see for yourself that these things cannot vote, because how should a trade union like the AHS trade union, where we have 18 percent voting shares, respond to our call and say: The SPÖ has said that we should strike, and that's why we strike!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr Schweitzer! But what frightens me behind these words, which really expose themselves as nonsense, is the idea that people are not able to think themselves, and that is precisely in an educational debate. How can teachers, how can adult people, how can they only be subordinated to students, they can't expect themselves, but can only be influenced by us?- Oh, my God! I like this picture that these people are as stupid as the hammermen and only do what the SPÖ says I miss. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Not everyone!]] People are willing and able to think for themselves, Mr Schweitzer, not least because of a good education system. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The BHS does not strike!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: This is social-democratic education policy over the past 30 years!]] - Yes, that's right! If Mr Schweitzer goes out of here and quotes the OECD study 2000, I am glad – the OECD study has been quoted as much as I know; from me it can be Eurostat, which is the same data – that we can discuss data. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Eurostat!]] After all, this is progress: that we can not only discuss feelings and preconceived opinions, but also facts. However, this data, Mr Schweitzer, the last one in there, dates back to 1998 and 1999, and at that time, as far as I can remember, the FPÖ was not yet in the government, but the government of the years ago was a socially democratically run government, and the education system it left to you is, of course, an excellent educational system. We are only concerned now that in a short time you will be able to ruin this excellent education system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Your concerns are unfounded!]] If Mr Schweitzer said that we should have informed the teachers before, and added that it was not wise to become a teacher, then I must already ask him if he has been missing, who has been a minister of education lately, and that – I just wanted to say that – the woman minister wrote letters year after year, in which she explained the pupils of higher schools, how it is with the chances of becoming a teacher. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That there is no job guarantee!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No job guarantee!]] At least these things you should have registered. This has always been reported in the teaching committee. I'm surprised you left this unnoticed. But that's the strategy of your side at all. It is even now that Mr Brosz is so far away that, when he raises accusations against the education policy of the past, what he has done a little, he looks over to us only. Those in the middle that are before you, there is obviously no longer any more as to the past! They said at some point: everything that has been in the past when they were with us in the government, there is no longer. [[Abg. Brosz: I looked back to the government bank!]] Mr Brosz! You really need to know! We are well aware that they do so because it is a tactic. But we should be aware that the ÖVP also has a story. She was once in the government, and she's still it. [[Abg. Böhacker: But it's not you anymore!]] And you have to see both the good and the bad sides of the past. The schools we are talking about now, and the teachers who have been hired have something to do with the debts you are accusing us of now. They say: Why these debts? – These debts face values. Something has been created for this money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is also called "investing in the future" by looking at the right time to create the conditions for people to move in the economy and in society. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You didn't get much support for it!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I cannot spare you to tell you that we are concerned about the situation in the education system for several reasons. First of all, the tuition fees. – We still believe that despite all that has been introduced under "federation", study fees pose a major risk to accessibility to the education system. These tuition fees – that is, international professionals, and that is also Austrian professionals – are suitable to stop people from studying. Even the Styrian Commission, which was quickly set up before the country elections, meant – I quote the report of the Styrian expert group – that: "Process and content are considered to be missing. Sustainable damage to the Austrian education system." The positions taken in the last few days have not been revoked either. In a letter, for example, Rector Leibetseder also expressed great concern about free access to universities. Also in the newspaper "Academia", a magazine of a very far right..., a very conservative club, is read similar. [[Abg. Grandruck: After what?]] I do not even like to quote the title of this article. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What has, of course, aroused great unhappiness is the situation that people are being deceived, and this self-truthed occurrence has quite a reason. I have here a quote from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the 11th century. February 2000 – this government has already existed – which reads as follows: "Free is nothing in life." It also says: Minister of Education Gehrer provides excitement in a "standard" conversation. Or: 12. April 2000, Budget Committee: Mr Plank asked the Minister if she would be eligible for tuition fees at universities and colleges. The Minister replied with the following words: "I am not concerned about the introduction of tuition fees for basic scientific training." Or: ==References== May 2000: "Dear at tuition fees." But then something happened, and all of a sudden, there's been tuition fees. But now going here and pretending to be the best in the world, and as if doing something good to universities, that's the objectionable, that's what we recommend, because you know exactly – those who make education policy – that the tuition fees for social access to our universities are something harmful! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the real top kasperl will come first. I read in the "Small Newspaper", Klagenfurt, of 21. September 2000 "Haider carried out university fees." In an interview with Mr Haider, he said that he was the one who imposed these charges on the government. – Why I say "Kasperl" has the following reason [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Does it have to do with Caspar One?]] My colleague Dobnigg brought with him a document out of Leoben stating that on 5 May, he was a member of the European Parliament. In October 2000, at a feast Mr. Haider signed the resolution of the high school against tuition fees. It's his original signature, and there were enough people with it. So that's really a Kasperl Theater special, and it's only good that you know how these things work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me close with the following subject, ladies and gentlemen: Mrs Gehrer said: "What costs nothing is worth nothing!" – This applies once to kindergarten children: "What costs nothing is worth nothing!" [[The speaker introduces a taferl to the speaker’s desk, which is written in the upper half: “Dear: ‘What costs nothing is worth nothing!’”; in the lower half children are pictured.]] The same principle applies now to the students: "What costs nothing is worth nothing!" [[The speaker introduces a second Taferl to the speaker’s desk with the inscription: “Dear: ‘What costs nothing is worth nothing!’” which young people are pictured under.]] And the question is, of course – no, that's true! – when the students arrive. [[The speaker presents another Taferl, on which a large question mark is depicted, on the speaker's seat]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Incorrect!]] In this House, education policy has long since been made no longer by the colleagues Amon or Schweitzer or Brinek, but by the Trattner and Stumbling Members. Therefore, against this statement made in the Committee on Budgets, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We would like to ask you to clarify clearly what has been included in the Budget Committee on the introduction of fees, in the post-secondary field. You know what that means, you can clearly distance yourself now. There is another difference between "Government old" and "Government new": Education policy was once something that was done in the minor square. Since the Firnberg Ministry, the minor square has stood for that ministry in which education and research are united and in which education policy is made. In the meantime, however, there are other places of education policy. We discussed the Stubenring yesterday, where Mr Bartenstein is doing research policy. Research policy is being done at the Ministry of Transport in Radetzkystraße – we can hardly discuss research! And education policy is made especially in the Himmelpfortgasse. As long as you are not willing to change this and reconquer the primacy of education policy, you will have to be very critical of your education policy for so long.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3742	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Antoni, Mr Ddr. Niederweiser is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Graf. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3766	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, Mr Niederwieser has already started the block "Science Policy", and we have already discussed it with the budget accompanying laws and also within the framework of the committees. As far as science policy is concerned, the world is indeed in order, since no single word of criticism – with the exception of criticism of unloved tuition fees – has been presented here by Mr Niederwieser in the debate on the tertiary sector. You also know very well why: because the budgetary situation in the field of science is excellent under the conditions we find. – That’s a fact! In fact, I would have expected the SPÖ's scientific spokesperson to take a different view in this context, in addition to the criticism that one should put on from the speaker's desk and also express it in the debates, to take out the positive one. But you have missed that again, and I am therefore always difficult to see the other points unbiasedly, because in reality the discussion is always in the wrong level. On the subject of "student fees" you always make the mistake that these would inhibit free access to the university. I'll tell you: That's not true, it's also proven internationally! Those who have seen the inscription numbers of the last weeks and months have been taught a better one. We have increasing numbers of students in Austria – this cannot be denied – and this despite the fact that there will be tuition fees. Study fees are only then – and I give you the right – suitable to stop students from studying if no accompanying measures are taken. But these were sufficiently affected: Any Austrian young person who wants and wants to study will be able to study in the future. We have made sufficient provision for this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The only thing that could possibly stand up to this is the fact that you also have to do the job. That's what we've taken care of. It is, of course, the policy that is required next year as far as the framework is concerned. The framework conditions that allow each student to actually complete his studies at an appropriate time, we still need to create there and there at various universities and universities. In this respect, we have also provided for the corresponding budget. We have made sure that universities and universities are able to study through budgetary, but also extra-budgetary means of providing resources in such a way that each student will be able to study in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There will always be hardship cases, ladies and gentlemen, but we have also taken care of them in this respect. We have come to know that cases of hardness are being compensated for that we want to do something about this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] – Mr Commissioner, thank you for your interlocutory call. So since science policy has been found to be in order by the great opposition party – and of course also by the government parties – I will turn to the educational debate in the very first sense and now talk about the primary and secondary education sector. I bring, because Mr Edler has referred to my home district here, an example from our common home district. I can tell you: I have the impression that the discussion about the Pragmatization is being held so violently by teachers in particular – and in your ranks are 13, 14, 15 teachers, that is, disproportionately many – so that they may be able to party-politicize during working time. That's really it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Aha!]] The study says that teachers spend only 27 percent of their working time in the class! In other working hours, they call for action in conjunction with the strikes on events with the theme "Education policy – Saving to annihilation". I think that's, like, very stupid. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And when experts are called by the Chamber of Workers, I wonder: How many Schillinge Chamber of Labour pay a teacher? – I don't think so! But do you have to save these supposedly extra-party "initiative transdanubia against black/blue" – "education policy – until the end of the ban?" This is the first time that the European Union has been able to play a key role in the development of the European Union. I would like to tell you what is being discussed under education policy: In this call, teachers are driven out of service at this event with a certain amount of mobbing. Then the SPÖ and its trade unions are already looking: Who's going there? That's exactly what you're looking at. It will then be discussed about the government participation of the FPÖ, which, it says, has rightly aroused concern and resistance among many people. As early as the first eight months of the new government's term of office, it continues, further social reduction – pension reform, health care, zero budget, unemployment benefit reductions and disability pension taxation – is characterised by the withdrawal of women's rights – of "educational policy" goals, suitable to be discussed by teachers in the service period! [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] It is simply not true that the disability pension is taxed by this government! That's what you've introduced to your government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If so, you'll find out right! The Federal Minister said very correctly here: When teachers pursue education policy, they also have responsibility! And responsibility also means that one does not spread false information. And this is done permanently to a specific extent. If education policy is, then we are on the right track. No one in Austria understands such projects when they are from teachers. We want our children to be trained to the best possible extent, and we do not want to see teachers running party politics under the cover of extra-party initiative in schools. [[Abg. Edler: You do a different policy than you promised!]] We don't want that! These times are over, Mr. Edler! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you continue to support party-political mobbing, you will continue to support Pragmatization, because that is the only protection, and I will give you the right to do so. Those who expect this government to take over a job security obligation or guarantee employment rights are indeed disappointed. There are a number of professions where people study and have no job security afterwards. [[Abg. Haller: The majority!]] This is once again systemimmanent. Mr Schweitzer said: There will be no plan economic regulation for postgraduate academics. The same right for all, including the same right for teachers, as applies to other professional groups. We do not want to take the teachers' idealism, we want to bring the teachers back their idealism.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3897	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3919	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Compared with all the previous promises and measured by the budget, education and research policy in reality is quite short-lived. Reductions of 1 billion schillings in this year are evened by a billion people who are expected to be victims of students and their parents. For years promised technology billions are now going to be again – yes what? – promised again! However, a finance minister decides on their distribution between three departments, for which Orientalism is an superfluous luxury, and which universities would like to see organized as a winning GesmbHs. – Hope doesn't come up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Real research policy approaches, strategies and orientations become public places and become self-evident. What do we hear? – Competition and competition – not just! Flexibility, market and application orientation as well as undefined performance incentives are sold to us as a major innovation. But – hear the signals!, I may say – there is another reform. A reform that is quoted as "totaler than anything so far daily". And little sensitive but rather full-bodied I read: With this total reform, hardly one stone will remain on the other. - That was in the paper yesterday. Now, if the rawe of the language is already becoming a boulevard of research and education policy, I get a little scared or, let's say it differently – if you're not scared – I'm not well. To sell Reformation as a demolition company and universities as a quarries – that is not the strategy debate and the future debate I wish for. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It has to be said here that no legitimate collegial body has expressed this wish even one Austrian university that we should hardly have one stone left on the other. But it always finds fulfillment assistants for political desires, and some work on it; it may be too many. So much about the confidence-building measures now. It's the skill or sense of politics I miss. – But now content is still available. We are told that all these are wrong fears, fear of change, that they are the concreteists who wanted to keep everything as it is, who would approve of everything as it is. I don't count on that, but: Are these fears not justified somewhere? I give you an example and quote from a report on university reform from the Black Paper of the Rectors' Conference. It's not a cabaret, it's not a satire, it's a reality: "Something important to treat in the monastery is that the abbot should gather the whole community together and explain for himself what it is all about. He should hear the counsel of the brothers and then go to counsel with himself. He does what he considers to be acceptable." – page 40 of the Black Paper of the rectors' conference on university reform, structural reform, personnel reform; Example: the rules of the Benedictine Order. But it goes on, going on to how to imagine hierarchies and conductive structures: "If less important matters of the monastery are to be dealt with, he should only ask the elders for advice." – Page 41. "When the community is larger, brothers are to be chosen from among themselves of good reputation and exemplary lifestyle and appointed deans. As deans, however, only those with whom the abbot can share his burden unscathed shall be chosen." – This is democracy, criticism and so on. But it goes even further and is actually getting better and better: "More than that, decisions are in the discretion of the abbot. What he considers to be more wholesome shall all obey him therein." – This is modern pedagogy! Next quote, page 41: "No in the monastery" – to facilitate some who do not want to believe it: The monastery stands, of course, for university – "can follow the will of its own heart." - So now it's gonna be a little gruesome. And when I finish, on page 46, read: "Because of the sacred service they vow, there must be no hesitation for them according to a command of the superior, but they fulfill their mission immediately, as if he were from God," I can only say: To bravo! "Then the monks immediately leave what is important to them, and give up their own will." - Quote. So, my wish to become a monk has since gone very far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I hope, Madam Minister, you will not order the rules of an order of men and the vows of obedience, poverty and chastity as the guiding principle of our university. But that's where I trust you, I have to tell you. I even trust you. Now universities are increasingly seen as production sites. In principle, I think this is not bad, it is neither right nor left, it is neither good nor bad. But it somehow pushes everything to the middle, and there remains little space for breathing and even less to think about this reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Budgets are also produced. The input is provided by the Federal Government and its representatives, but the output is all about: the so-called chaots, the so-called squeezing citizens, the entire colorful society that must live with this output of a new law and with this budget. It means that universities have been called for the benefit of society, for the prosperity of development and for the solution of human problems. Whether this is about the way of regulation, with the vows of obedience, the poverty in the budget and the chastity I am still waiting for, is the big question. That is to say, it is by no means far gained if, on this path of becoming a law, from political decision to advocacy through the proclamation of the federal law, something like alienation and alienation, and not only with chaots – who are also eligible for election! – but also with the so-called citizens, up to the head of the group. But what interests me, much more than the entire columns and columns of naked numbers, is the question: What is the university's product supposed to be? And: Are the ideas of society covered with those products that the government considers valuable, good and expensive and feasible? What I notice is: You found this answer. Their speeches and your self-confidence on display suggest this, and this self-confidence, which has been shown, is also against new questions. But I still have questions, and I also doubt your quick answers. A colleague from the ÖVP, who is unfortunately not here today, has recently meant that she misses content in the discussion on tuition fees and sees only criticism. Let us begin with the question of whether the claim that study fees are positive is a very sustainable one. The reason for this, as far as I have heard, does not stand for a critical consideration and a re-examination. What was claimed? – Study fees would produce more diligent, faster, better students. We're talking about production: They produce faster and better students. I also ask whether it is verifiable whether the claim is true that the tuition fees would give rise to positive structural effects at universities. Innovation shifts are referred to as milestones when the students contribute a billion shillings to the reorganisation of the budget, but so ultimately only maintain the status quo after a billion of us have been taken. The belief and regulation of ideologies are not a political strategy to pass on the universities. I also believe that there must be evidence of truth in a discourse, and I ask you and at the same time ask you to enter this discourse and not exclude universities, their stakeholders, their relatives and their clients, the society, from this discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Study fees critics are not unnecessarily reddish noses, not non-special idiots. They have used experience, studies and data to prove their criticism in order to prove the validity of this criticism. I also believe that we can still argue about some of them, but for this it is simply necessary to get off this coffin of critical self-happiness, and I have been waiting for it since I was here in Parliament. – This may be too short, but still, wait and hope you can. For you, that error is human is a wisdom that seems to have little authority. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Errare...!]] If you dispute the humanity of error and are not willing to practice self-criticism, They alienate themselves from the human nature. I think that's how far we should go. They are not removed from the great concept of hominids. Powerful men were never comfortable with criticism. – This too was misinterpreted to me as an injunction and unwarranted criticism. But that's such a simple fact that you just have to think about it briefly: What do powerful people prefer – applause or criticism? They will have to learn to discuss content even in budget debates and also to listen to criticism, not to shake them off, not to shake them and not to dissuade those who express them. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think it wasn't the conveniences and the adjusted ones, it wasn't the most zealous and the ems, the quick and the smooth, the mere business makers that disturb the rulers, but precisely this group of people has required it to train in the university such something as criticism, curiosity, exciting questions and responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mr. Grünewald, we are already critical!]] But I do not dispute that universities, many of their teachers and students have also submitted to the fashions of time and their careers have adapted to this fashion. I don't like that either. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We are open to every criticism!]] I believe, however, Mr Graf, and you will help me a little, that universities should still be the place of unrest, doubt and at the same time the questions. I think this is much more exciting than the only and alone to get stuck in the production of increasingly faster circuits or microchips. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But this is more a sermon than a speech!]] – If you want to hear sermons, go to church. I don't intend to convert you. I believe that your ideal of safe knowledge – I don't know, colleague Krüger, how safe you are – somewhere on weak ground – is no, that's not apodic! – and that's why your knowledge looks a little old. [[Abg. Young: Nothing apodic!]] But it may be that we can meet there; I don't take it out. In fact, I just want to say that questions are necessary, more necessary than cheap, fast and insensitive answers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The crucial question – and I am now removing myself from the budget – is not the budget debate in politics, but these are the people, and they ask themselves: Does life pay off or not? That sounds like preaching again, but maybe you'll think for a minute. Keep quiet for a minute and wonder if people outside are interested in budget columns or what we do with education and research. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You have approached the Black Book and the monks very much!]] Close to the black book? - Yeah, okay. I believe that politics and universities should show respect for these issues, and if you and if we have to bear responsibility, we must give the university the space, the time, the width and the have and warn of cheap solutions. And I don't see any signals there. However, I would like to ask the Minister and others to start the dialogue. One can talk about it, one can argue about it, and perhaps one can find consensus about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4095	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4116	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can't leave everything uncommented by my previous speaker, especially not the monastery metaphors. On the occasion of this educational debate, I have come to realize that it is the competence of the upper-level student, who belongs to the upper-level student, to identify text types, to be able to assign metaphors. So: The monastery-metapher in a workshop report is permitted. President Welzig, who also likes to think and speak in classical metaphors, would probably be very pleased. I find nothing obscene in it – apart from being able to imagine being in a mixed abbey with wise students for the sake of truth. That's a nice university image. I have no problem with this, Professor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have more problems with the other metaphor you used, that of the "mighty and oppressed". Again and again you speak of the powerful and oppressed, of the powerful who would forbid the oppressed to think. This is a very dusty metaphor. She reminds me of a long-arrived art concept, according to which art is only that which hurts, and includes events that nobody actually goes to. That's what we're over. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I believe that we should also show this competence of the upper-level students and let the metaphors be what they are – as said in a workshop report – and let them manage more rationality and less selective perception. By the way, you know what happened to the medieval university. ==References====External links== The universities were nationalized, and Joseph II. they wanted to become training institutions. That's exactly what you don't want! So we're on our way in the right direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But a few facts because they were mentioned in part in the Committee and could not be contradicted. It has often been said that in the secondary education sector Austria has a lot to do with it, but in the post-secondary and tertiary fields, in higher education, Austria would need a follow-up. I can refer to the latest university newspaper. Austria is at the forefront of education expenditure at all levels, including in the tertiary field. Oh, "Front" you can't say, that's another war metaphor. That's from the old clothes collection. I quote: The Austrian expenditure per student at universities is 48 percent higher than the EU average. Austria is the third best place. – So bronze medal in Europe – we leave Italy, Germany, Sweden, Denmark and so on – is not a bad result. And this result will continue with the future budget, ladies and gentlemen. So you don't have to be scared. Nor do you have to be afraid, Professor Grünewald, that someone gets a reform debate octroyated. If you read carefully relevant literature – including my esteemed representatives of Buko, Proko, rectors' conference do so – you can see: Throughout Europe, universities are reformed, not only in the countries of the East, but also in the German Republic, in France, in other countries. So Uni-Reform is not a terror that the Austrian government parties have invented. The chairman of the German University Editors' Conference said: At the universities we need the organization of more self-reliance and commitment and fair conditions in a competition that we cannot choose from. – This signals: This is also the way Austria has to think! The debate is also under way, and so this government, Mr Niederweiser, is only continuing what the government has started before. I remind you: The UOG 1993 has not yet been "knacked" in all universities, as you say so beautifully – probably this is an inadequate metaphor again – since the then Minister has already presented a new law paper. All right! It is also all right to further develop this law-enforcement paper. For this further development, I would like to work hard. The framework concept of the rectors' conference is based on this right-wing idea and says: The current, applicable laws – UOG 1993 – are not sufficient to provide the necessary scope of action to achieve the rightfulness to achieve autonomy. The problems are known: too many individual, partially uncongruent legislation, too much red tape, imprecise responsibility structures, rigid budgetary requirements, annual principle, no cost accounting, no design options for students in terms of the ratio of funding/appropriation. In fact, we have too little data on higher education, but we also have to look at ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, who do not deal with university so much: 300 officials manage 6,000 university teachers and 240 000 students who teach and research together. This is four, five or six times as much as in the early 1970s, but the structures remain the same. Which company would be committed to maintaining the structures if the plant grew to four, five and six times? - No one! Everyone should think about what to change. Therefore, I like to say – it is something that demands time and again, but may not be heard, although it is said –: What is the real task of a university reform? – The real task is to develop a balance between the specifics of education tasks and modern forms of an efficient and at the same time participatory organisation. That's our job. And if it is not primarily a task of the university, it is also the task of the university to think about the production of this balance and not to leave another person to think about it. That would be a shame. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To calm down a few fearful rectors: The GesmbH model is no longer up-to-date. It was a model that, I believe, appeared even in the previous legislative period, but the bureaucracy model UOG 1993 – the law teacher Hausmaninger does this beautifully – is not enough either. Therefore: The proposal regarding scientific institutions, Sui-generis solution, which can be a challenge to which we can say indeed. There is no need to reject a reform by resolution. The reform also includes a reform of service law, the continuation of the focus in the study programme, the facilitation of global budgets, the establishment of a guidance plan with a possible implementation; Guidelines are already available, but there is a lack of implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, the universities are places of methodologically managed knowledge production. Excuse me! "Production" I can't say, it's a false metaphor, a market metaphor. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I didn't say that! Listen!]] I mean with this University Orientalism, Ethnology, Medicine, Computer Science and all other fields of study, so that you can learn about the spectrum of courses supported and forced by me and the People's Party – I also called Orientalism! – are also taught once. These places of knowledge production at the highest level must take note that they have to compete; I have the impression that this knowledge is not yet fully matured, not – once again – because the bad Federal Government wants it, but because now also technical universities, other institutions of the post-secondary field, private universities, business schools of all kinds have established themselves and they do not question universities extra. This is also the game of free forces in a free market. I think that the universities are wrong about it, they would only become copies of business schools, colleges, private universities and other institutions. They would thus give up their self-esteem, their exclusivity and their incomparable competence. That would be a shame. But I also think that they would give up if they left the justification of this objective and this claim to someone else. I believe that in reform history and in reform work, we have to start over and over again and again and again. I would like to quote at this point – and do it here too – a word by Ralf Dahrendorf, who meant that it was no longer worth distinguishing between East Unions and West Unions and East Reform Unions and West Reform Unions, but only more according to reform needs. And reform work is often at the level of trial and error. Dahrendorf says this very well: "We try and we try again, and the worst that can happen is not that we can stop drinking." Let's start trying and continuous try! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4189	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4210	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned when I hear what is said by the opposition to the false reports from the schools and what reactions you have. So I find out on the basis of your reactions and words: Whoever spreads a verifiable false report has no responsibility for that. – This is not a new way of thinking about responsibility. I would also like to comment on the subject of the study contributions: Whenever I am repeatedly tried to blame myself on old statements, I would have always rejected study contributions, I really ask you to look at my entire argumentation chain. As the State Councillor in Vorarlberg, I have already expressed my support for the withdrawal of study contributions in technical colleges, and I have voted in favour of the withdrawal of certain groups and senior students' contributions. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there are development processes. There are not only the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ. For example, I read here about a statement by Mr. Minister One of the 26 languages. November 1998: "Unlike the usual SP line, study fees for Minister of Science Caspar One can be disputed. However, a condition is necessary, he said in the latest issue of the SP teacher magazine ‘Free Teacher Voice’: The yield achieved must be in a reasonable ratio to the effort of the collection" – we do so, we automate the collection – "and it must also be used for the purpose of redistribution for the promotion of studies." And that's what we do, ladies and gentlemen. If you are now totally opposed to these study contributions, you have also taken part in a change of opinion. And I believe that such development processes are legitimate, they must be recognised, they cannot be constantly put in a corner by claiming that it is unreasonable to develop something further. I think it's reasonable and well done! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The science budget is a budget that can be seen. We have raised the funds for investment again. We covered the personnel costs. We have taken into account the funds for the further development of the technical universities. And especially in this area, we will again have 600 more training places in the next few years for the new technologies. I mean, our good universities deserved that we work together on their further development. That is why we have initiated the "Modern Study and Research" project. A steering group has been set up under the direction of a university professor, and this steering group will present the cornerstones for a new, modern service law for discussion before Christmas, to a broad discussion. We all want to be involved, we all want to take with us. If it has been said: What do powerful people prefer – applause or criticism?, then I have to say, I already feel that expression "mighty" personally as an inadmissible understatement. Whoever has responsibility is a worker, a worker for society, a worker for the community, a worker for this country. He is very careful to deal with this responsibility. I don't feel powerful, but I think I have a lot of responsibility and have to develop a lot more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I think it is right to enter into a constructive dialogue. My view of criticism is: Criticism is a mirror that you keep in front of someone. You always have to consider what reactions you trigger yourself, whether you want these reactions, and you have to learn something from the criticism. But I also believe that it must be the efforts of Members to continue with a positive dialogue. I would like to further develop our good universities in a critical dialogue with positive Members. And that's what I'm inviting you to do!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4260	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4281	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I think that development processes are important, it is worrying, I think, only if they happen so much overnight and one is not quite sure where these inspirations come from. Austria is concerned, and I too am concerned about the developments in the education system. If you look around what is going on in Austria at the moment, you can see that the students are striking that teachers are holding office meetings, the AHS teachers are going to strike, and the parents are concerned and are supporting these teachers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Boy: So no!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: No, really not!]] - Yes! You know, obviously not, but otherwise I know of many parents who support it. At any rate, the education system is continuing to run on crash courses, so the government is strongly opposed to these groups. The zero deficit – only the word "zero deficit" is an enormous word creation – must be carried out on bending and breaking; Bending and breaking also because only the little man will count on it and come along – the "little woman" will be sent to the stove anyway. There are a lot of examples. Think of civil servants who suddenly receive more than half of their wage overnight, including such an action, or of the students who are to study faster and who are also motivated by these new tuition fees. What's going to happen? – They will study faster, by the way more work, which in turn causes them to study longer. That is, it's a vicious circle you're going to introduce, but you won't get any more money from the students to achieve this zero deficit. Many will also stop studying. Perhaps this is the ideological background, perhaps only more wealthy people should receive good training. I think this should also hurt some in the ÖVP, because it has always been used for good education, not long before this swivel over night, it was promised high and holy that there would never be any tuition fees – a broken promise quite simply! It is already strange which bizarre way the blue-black government goes. For example, Austria has a relatively low academic rate, and I think this trend will now be reinforced. But maybe that's also a goal. This longing for the past has just been heard from the speeches of the previous speaker. But that's not all. Not only at universities, but also in other areas should be paid, or at least so in the room. It may be decided again overnight, perhaps also because by throwing the Telekom shares no money or little money comes in. It is considered whether or not to be paid in the post-secondary field, i.e. to the pedaks, to the social academies and to the colleges. What this means, for example, for HTLs and colleagues is clear: They're just not going to take place anymore, there'll be no more. If you continue to think about this path, you end up saying: End of compulsory schooling, start of schooling! – I already know that this has been demented in the APA, but my confidence in any promises is simply low. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to highlight the field of vocational education and training. Since the expansion of vocational schools, the number of students has quadrupled, and there is a further increase to be expected. The measures taken in this respect are scarce. It means every student, every student finds admission to a school. That's what it's called from the official side. That sounds very good, but reality is another. Today, the students no longer choose the schools closest to them, nor do they go to the school the father has already gone to, but they try to get a place that corresponds to their talents and offers opportunities for the future. They exist the recording talks, they may have an average score, which allows them to get a place. However, this is only a virtual place, because reality is another. The schools don't have enough teachers, the schools don't have enough value units, so the young people will have to look around to get some place in any school. If a student or a student has the opportunity to go to a first class, then after the first class it is again thoroughly sieved, because there are not enough units of value to maintain the class number. That's called education offensive. If I look at the foreign language offensive, I can only say: Unfortunately, there is not enough money. Finland and Scandinavia are repeatedly quoted: Take a look at how much money there is invested in education and research! I would like to mention one point: the issue of the education of girls and women. What will happen to the girls when this "education offensive" – under quotation marks – continues? I think it's very few girls or fewer and fewer girls being offered the chance to get a higher education. Also with the students: Ten thousand S are just too much! And this is another way that we are going, so to speak, to the EU. For example, if you look at: Austria has a relatively low female employment rate. Denmark has the highest female employment rate in the EU, i.e. 75 percent, single women are well protected, families with several children are also well protected, childcare places are available, and – you hear and marvel! – the birth rate is 28 percent above Austria. And this also has something to do with education, ladies and gentlemen, and with political far-sightedness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the climate in the classes will also change. One thing I would like to say: Being a class board is one of the most important and responsible educational tasks and not a purely administrative activity. And in the sense of the government's neoliberal thinking: Value only has what can be measured. And not quantifiable, like pedagogical skills, knowledge about managing groups, conflict management, all of this is nothing more worth it. Ladies and gentlemen! No wonder the teachers and teachers and the parents and students and also we from the Social Democratic Party are concerned about our education system.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4363	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4384	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has something special to offer: the beauty of its landscape, the beauty of its people – its still largely unharmed nature and its rich cultural heritage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of SPÖ) But now he laughed, the Niederwieser!]] This ensemble of culture, buildings, landscape and nature takes us away from the rest of Europe. And we must be aware that our cultural heritage in a fast-growing Europe is the most important because unmistakable part of our very own Austrian identity. That is why, in the coming year, our education and culture budget is increasing by 1 billion schilling, from 76 billion to 77 billion schilling, because education and culture, ladies and gentlemen, are inseparably linked. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Only a society that is aware of its cultural assets from a small point of view will see it as its real personal concern. Let us think, for example, of the Steffl in Vienna, or think of some marterl that is restored by a school class in rural areas and then finally recognized and regarded as their marterl. Education is history, and this awareness of history must keep it alive. Especially in the course of the restitution questions, unique collections in Austria have unfortunately only been dealt with on a punctual basis. The return of the well-known Klimt image "Dame with Federboa" is decided thing. In principle, however, many collections belong to better inventory and review, even in the sense of various museum mergers. For inventory problems I mention only the Austrian gallery as an example. In connection with the whole discussion about the restitution, however, the question arises of how far other countries, the Allies, the former USSR, are obliged to repay art treasures of Austrian origin such as the well-known Papyrus collection Pahlewi or the books from the house of Estherhazy or the Tapisseries of the Art History Museum. That too must be discussed. This is also part of the general picture of a sense of history, because only with appropriate education is the historical context recognizable and identification with its own culture, which is so important. It therefore seems particularly important to me that our children are already included in this historical thinking, that our children are brought closer to our castles, our monuments, our museums, our gardens in a way acceptable to them, and that our children and also the adults are actively involved in this restoration of our monuments. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This should develop as far as possible as in England, for example, the system of the National Trust, so that there are also voluntary helpers, the castles and monuments, because it is their personal concern, to restore and then to own. This forms and forms the population, parts of the economy and parts of the professional world already quite different from those of us in Austria, although cultural projects, as proved recently, are already very much a personal concern for more than 50 percent of adults, which they also want to share. Although this is already the case, the sense of personal responsibility in preserving our cultural heritage is certainly not yet sufficiently developed. And that must be our approach. Our approach should not be: Cultural policy is not for the people, but our approach must be: Cultural policy must be such a concern to people that it becomes their very personal project. This means successful cultural policy: Motivation for culture, practiced on the foundations of democracy! This means successful cultural policy: Not between the state or the market, but for the interaction! This also means successful cultural policy: Not to see the monument on one side and the passive viewer on the other. These two sides must be brought together in the sense of a common identification, for it is only in this way possible to make the Austrian cultural heritage, its buildings, its collections, its gardens, its cultural landscapes, in the sense of a national foundation, an Austrian cultural park an essential part of the Austrian identity in the heart of Europe. I would like to conclude with the words of Hugo Portisch: This need for this idea, not to perceive this identification, would be a reason to doubt the ability of Austria to shape its future independently in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4451	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4472	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me a little surprising, but yet very clear was the image that Colleague Povysil has just drawn and which has reflected her cultural understanding: a largely intact Austrian nature, beautiful people who go to the museum with good and decentness and lead to the cultural heritage of the past. [[Abg. Großruck: This also applies to you!]] This is not my or our cultural understanding. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the "intact nature" I say now only one sentence: In the meantime, two thirds of the species of animals and plants in Austria are under threat – the picture of the integrity of nature. But I am particularly concerned: If one conjures the cultural heritage of the past, one should be aware that we today need to produce the cultural heritage of the future or to induce and promote the framework conditions for producing the cultural heritage of the future. If you are based on a cultural concept that is exclusively aimed at the past, then you take this cultural heritage of today to the coming generations and – I have said it more often – produce a black hole in contemporary art and contemporary culture. That's not what we want. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not only about castles, gardens and monuments, it is mainly about opening the largest cultural district in Europe in the coming months, namely the Museum Quarter. At the moment, it looks like it is a museum exclusively for the past, a cultural district exclusively for the past, in which all the exciting, contemporary institutions dealing with the present no longer have a place. I am sorry that Mrs. Dr. Povysil has not lost a single sentence on this issue. We have been planning and discussing for 20 years now, and it will open next year. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Since when have you been in politics?]] In the previous speech, however, there was no single sentence on the culture of the present. With regard to the question of how to deal with the culture of the present, it is especially terrifying from the pages of the liberals. The quote from Mr Schweitzer – he is not present at the moment – to a critical institution that she not only bites her hand, but even the chandelier, has a very strange understanding in her mind and is actually demonstrating the accusation that we have to repeat over and over again, namely that institutions, which are also dealing with the political situation of the present, should be excluded from funding, so that a direct link between political attitude and art and cultural policy promotion is created. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That doesn't do anyone!]] It is, unfortunately, so! I just mentioned the example. I also regret the fact that the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mrs Povysil, is the first signatory to this question, in which specifically the link between the political attitude of actors and the promotions is established. I would like to address another problem, namely the structures of museums or the changes planned under the budget accompanying law for next year. This is mainly the integration of the Museum of folklore and the Theatre Museum into the Art History Museum. We believe that this is extremely problematic. The official argument for this integration is that these are too small museums, so that they cannot handle their tasks with the existing budget resources, although there is an opinion of the Intercontrol Wirtschaftsfidelhand-GesmbH, which clearly states that, for example, the Theatermuseum as a distributed, independent institution is very well able to balance positively. What is the background that is problematic for us? – I don’t think you can do anything about a comb in this museum landscape. One cannot equate institutions that also have scientific, time-historical tasks with pure exhibition houses, such as the Kunstforum. The theatre museum, which preserves the history of time by means of renditions, letters, photos, theater papers and directorial books, has a completely different task than a purely commercial art exhibition operation. The same applies to the Museum of Art. We regret the fact that you are all about a comb, a loss of diversity and pluralism in our museum landscape. We therefore strongly oppose the integration of these two museums, which have completely different tasks from the Art History Museum. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is particularly worrying for me that they should not keep their scientific autonomy full. We will therefore continue to criticize and combat this law. Ms. Dr. Brinek brought a quote earlier in which she meant that the phrase "art is only what hurts" corresponds to an obsolete concept of art and culture. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That would be worth a long discussion!]] Such a statement would be worth a long, detailed discourse. I would like to say to our cultural understanding: Our focus is on what is happening in interaction with the present. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I already agree with interaction!]] Interaction is what is happening at present and the cultural heritage of the future. We have a completely opposite orientation in setting priorities in the budget and in the case of structural measures. It therefore enjoys exactly what is no priority now the exciting, the contemporary, the living, the boy, the young art and the young culture. And I find this distressing and sad. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] This can be seen from the budget and the structures, it can also be read on actions, requests and statements by individual actors of the government parties, and it is unfortunate. So: Art is not only what hurts, but also what hurts, and above all what hurts politically. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4599	The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4620	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I very much like to dedicate myself to the subject of federal museums and often, but today I just want to strip it. The transfer of federal museums to justice has already demonstrated their basic sense of meaning. And the second stage, the integration of the smaller Federal Museums, namely the Austrian Theatre Museum and the Museum of People's History, is intended to involve already experienced experiences and use synergies even more than before. A close cooperation relationship and resulting changes in organisational and planning structures should be strengthened and optimally used, with the explicit maintenance of scientific autonomy – and I am sure that will be very emphasized, and this scientific autonomy will remain guaranteed – of the individual houses. I would also like to briefly mention a non-essential area for which the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture is still responsible, even if it is only a secondary department, namely the protection of monuments. There has also been a change in the new state of government, for example, there is a legislative novel on which I am unfortunately unable to go further in detail. In essence, it is about the integration of the Monumental Protection Act and the Export Prohibition Act for Cultural Goods into a law, which makes sense that the export regulations have been substantially liberalised and adapted to the EU's provisions. Here there are some differences in the assumption. Monuments and cultural heritage were referred to as terms, under-protection criteria were redefined, and an extensive list of park and garden facilities was incorporated into federal competence through constitutional provisions. I would like to say that, of course, there is still a lot to do in this area in order to adapt the structures to today's customer-friendly, service-oriented needs. For example, I have a little touch on the edge: One could quietly modernise the old official German in some forms, and so some bureaucratic procedure could still be dismantled, but I'm sure that will happen in the next time. What I would like to address here and today is a very interesting programme, namely the Culture 2000 programme. This is a first framework programme of the European Community for cultural promotion for the period 2000 to 2004. What has been drawn up in this programme is a single financial and planning instrument, which should help to achieve an ever closer union of the peoples of Europe, contribute to the development of the cultures of the Member States, while respecting their national and regional diversity and highlighting the common cultural heritage. The cultural creation of individual Member States is thus further promoted, contacts and exchanges are strengthened, mutual knowledge of the culture and history of the peoples of Europe can take place. The emphasis on a common cultural area certainly strengthens the sense of one's own resources, strengthens cooperation between cultural creators, artists, private and public organizers, carriers and participants in cultural networks and creates new ties. No one will disagree with me if I expressly welcome the promotion of cultural dialogue, artistic creation, transnational dissemination and the possible development of new forms of cultural expression for all parties involved. Ladies and gentlemen! Some 35 million euros are available for the overall programme in 2000. The deadline for submission ended on 10 March. May this year. Around 1 250 projects have been submitted across Europe, and our ministry has established its own advisory office in cooperation with the Federal Chancellery. Three action steps are planned. Action 1 concerns the field of cultural heritage. Here, joint cultural topics and currents are brought to the public through hiking events and exhibitions. It is about multilingualism, new media, restoration, conservation and upgrading of the architectural heritage of the 19th and 20th centuries. In the 19th century, as well as in my heart, I was very interested in the field of book and reading. There are literary translations, including in regional languages, including Central and Eastern Europe, finally pedagogical cooperation projects for publishing books with multimedia partners and the training of professionals. There is cultural cooperation, events, festivals, exhibitions. A maximum of five, at least three partners are involved. Duration of action: one year, budget: 16 million euros, with a maximum of 60 percent support. Action 2 concerns the development of synergies, culture and education, training, research and new technologies, taking particular account of European cultural history. There is also a cooperation agreement in the field of music. Duration: at least three years, five different states are involved. A total budget of 13 million euros is available for this purpose. Number of projects: about twelve. A maximum of 60 percent of Community funds are used. Action 3: Events with European and international charisma. This is about supporting European cultural cities. There are 220 000 euros available per city. So-called Cultural Heritage Laboratories are set up which are responsible for the conservation and protection of cultural heritage of exceptional and European importance. A maximum of four projects, at least three Member States must participate. Symposia on issues of common cultural interest are organised by the respective Presidency. A project under Austrian leadership and 14 other projects with Austrian participation were selected for the "Culturelles Erbe", i.e. the project under Austrian leadership, with the St. Stephan Cathedral Building as a European Laboratory for Cultural Heritage also being funded. Ladies and gentlemen! This cross-country cultural programme "Culture 2000" with its central importance beyond the individual country, which at the same time strengthens the self-esteem of the individual participating member countries and highlights the awareness of their own cultural identity, is to be seen as an important and important cultural contribution for the future – in the sense of international understanding, of exchange, connection, cooperation and cultural promotion. I think we can all agree in his positive assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4692	Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4714	Mr President. High house! In this discussion, a budget volume of 109 billion Schilling is discussed. That's 13.5% of the total budget! This is incredible money for education, training, education and culture, and I think it's good that we spend so much money on it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is also a very big challenge for all my employees to create this budget in such a short period of time, to actually make it clear that the figures are actually fixed. Therefore, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank all my employees for this enormous achievement, in this short period of time, of this huge budget! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Culture is a very important area, and it is stable in the budget. We got something. In this context, I believe that the discussion about the museum quarter should be conducted under the conditions that really exist there. It is Europe's largest cultural site! It will be opened after years of discussions in 2001, and there will be the "Quartier 21" where 3 500 square meters will be provided for future-oriented, progressive, lively, young cultural initiatives. These 3,500 square meters are to be revived by these young, innovative cultural offerings! We will ensure that both our cultural heritage and the future-oriented cultural work have place in the museum quarter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In connection with the cultural heritage, it has also been said that there is the National Trust System in England. We have planned rubble for the coming year. We want to do more for the monument protection. The fact that citizens can participate is an optimal opportunity for us to show what is worth the protection of monuments. So there will be a rubble action, and we expect it to bring about 50 million schilling for monument protection. This will be a great new initiative for the preservation of our cultural goods. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was also referred to by the merger of the Art History Museum with the Volkskundemuseum and the Theatre Museum, and an opinion has been quoted. However, the opinion should only be cited in full. In this opinion, it says that the Theatermuseum will write deficits in at least two years, and we do not want to. That is why we are looking for a reasonable solution with synergies. I received a good news today! It comes from the other end of the world, from Cairns, Australia: The World Heritage Committee is part of its 24th World Heritage Committee. Meeting in Cairns, Queensland, Australia, 30. November at 9.30 Local time, 0.30 CET, unanimously decided to include the cultural landscape of Wachau in the UNESCO World Heritage List! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] I congratulate the responsible person in the Wachau, and I am proud that we now have six world heritage sites in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4795	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Schasching's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4819	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Despite these encouraging reports, I would like or unfortunately I have to return to something more unsatisfying, because we really have to do with what the blue-black government has been showing us lately with an extreme reduction in social affairs, in education, but above all in democracy. I am therefore talking about the reduction of democracy, because, for example, Mr Amon, in his speech on the teaching budget, said quite clearly that we will have to look at the social democratic teachers. – What does he mean, Mr Amon? What does he want to look at? [[Abg. Haller: This is a distortion of statements!]] [[Further calls by Dr. Brinek and Mag. Tancsits.]] He said: We will take a very close look at the social democratic teachers. – I ask you: What's that statement? What does he want to tell us? Does he want to tell us the same thing as his colleague Strobl in Vienna's Landtag, which makes it even clearer? In fact, it threatens school supervisors if they do not take back their - as he claims - misinformation with consequences. He said: With disciplinary consequences, we will threaten them! What is that supposed to mean? Do we want to hang a muzzle because we do nothing else or because our colleagues do nothing else to draw the attention of teachers to what they have to expect in their life planning? I would also like to point this out to an example. Col. Graf has looked so down on "transdanubia", so I now bring an example of "transdanubia". I would just like to give you an example from the Floridsdorf district, because for this district, Mrs Minister, you still owe us the answer as to how your savings figures can be understood. Does it mean that in Floridsdorf next year 126 or 160 teachers can be less employed? That is the question. Can you tell us whether the savings measures apply only to the national tax compensation or whether the budget accompanying laws are applied? Can you tell us if this is to be added or if this can be seen separately? – In this respect, one is waiting for answers, and that is exactly 34 teachers who do not know if they can continue to work next year. For example, this is about a 25-year-old teacher who is just about to buy an apartment. Can it afford it next year if it has to make credit obligations, or can it not? Or: a young colleague who is setting up a family. Can he still afford his expenses next year, or can he not? – All these are questions that are open, and they are about individual teachers, about individual schicksales, but above all, they are also about quality in schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll hold you once again. School supervisors do nothing but inform. You're not insecure! In this case, the authority is insecure, you are insecure, Mrs. Minister. On another point which I would like to address in this context, I agree with you exactly in a sentence. They say: Being a teacher is more than a job. – Yes, being a teacher is indeed more than a job. That's what I think today, if I look at what the "Kurier" is titled. That's what it says: "Vienna's teachers make mobile at their schools." Right, they make mobile, but not to call for strikes, but teachers make mobile antidrug use. What do these teachers do against drug use? – 1 800 Vienna teachers and 270 directors voluntarily press the school bank to secure their commitment to fight against drug abuse. And the director of the Educational Institute of the City of Vienna said: The school is the only institution of society that reaches all children. The school has in some way also become a family replacement and for young people the first link to professional life. - Quote. I can only double-emphasize all of this. What does that mean? – This means that teachers are committed outside their teaching time, and that is also clear and determined, because teacher working time does not mean standing only in the class. Teacher working time is much, much more. Teacher working time also means engaging in a time when other people have leisure time: in the evening, in seminars, on weekends. That's right and good, but you have to accept that and be worthy of it accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am not saying, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have not honoured this, I say this in particular in the direction of the FPÖ, which has repeatedly, especially in recent times, made it clear to the hobby to debase teachers and teachers' working time. I would like to draw this out again on the example of this drug initiative, and I would also like to point out that it is planned to conduct workshops with parents at schools. - Yeah, when will that happen? Certainly at the time of the day when parents also have time to work together with teachers to develop concepts on how to deal with drug abuse. Mrs. Federal Minister! I very much hope that these appeals to you will not go unheard of, that you will clarify the ambiguity that you will tell Vienna teachers what happens in the next few years, with what numbers we can actually operate on in the next few years and how the negotiations will continue. I hope that a positive outcome will be achieved by March 2001 when it comes to the supplements that are extremely important to us. Then it is decided whether we can secure all day care at the schools in Vienna or whether this will also fall. After all, the federal government also enters the template with 299 posts. And it's about whether the children can be cared for in school in the afternoon or not. All these are urgent questions. All this also shows very well that it has worked very well in our school life. Now it is important to secure this, to maintain it, and we teachers stand for the quality of the schools. Of course, we social democrats are also behind this so far positive education policy, which aims to do joint work here: the positive for our education, the positive for our youth. And we call on the blue-black government not to save on the opportunities of young people in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4893	Mr Grollitsch came to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4914	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, but also ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! The university teacher association is just giving us a visit. He called for this in an issue, and I am delighted about it. We're five when I've counted right. Ladies and gentlemen! They have greatly encouraged them to go to the public. They have encouraged them to take part in today's debate. I take you pars pro toto, I take you seriously and I am pleased that you are taking part in public policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you demand in your broadcast that you and the students together consider the future, then this is an additional praise. But please also allow me to mention a failure: No one has prevented us from doing so in the past. The introduction of the study fee may not be the appropriate reason to become public as far as possible. But be it, it's an occasion, it's a situation that's new to us. We have already discussed them, and I have announced my own assessment here that I consider the type of introduction and the time to be unfortunate. But I also say that I am looking for that army of professors and rectors who have called for study fees in recent years and decades. These professors are currently disappearing in the sinking, they are hardly heard of these statements, of course not from the side of the political opponent. Unfortunately, Mr Niederwieser is not in the hall. I would have liked to talk to him about his "Kasperl theory" in relation to our former Federal Partyman and about that paper with which he watched here. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser stands at the Bureau in such a way that the speaker cannot see him.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But in between, something to do with it: Dr. Haider, the most successful post-war politician in our country, was at an event in my hometown and, as is not uncommon in his appearances, was very euphoric received by 1,500 people. And everyone has held him anything on which he may sign, whether this was a t-shirt, a caperel, a picture or something. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser returns to his place and draws the speaker's attention to it.]] Thank you, Mr Niederwieser, I see you now, who have led your Kasperl argument in this context. Back to the performance of Dr. Haider. Among these hundreds of signatures to be given, in a high mood and a great mood in this space, was also a note on which a student had him signed against the introduction of study fees. [[Abg. Dobnigg: Probably fake! Sustained!]] I brought the two people together after that, and there was a very constructive debate on this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – You should have been taking part or perhaps the Lord who has given you the note. Mr Karl Dobnigghätte should be there. There, Dr. Haider repeated his old and quite received opinion on tuition fees. He has always, like our group, expressed the view that there are groups of people at the universities who can and should pay a study fee. You and your Minister have called for this to be introduced for certain target groups. What else happened? The accusation here is that, for example, children of workers will no longer be able to study. Mr. Dr. Niederwieser, I was at the negotiating table in the late 1960s – and not on the street! – for the abolition of the study fee, and we were able to achieve that. But what have we achieved? – You know the studies on the social situation of students. We could not increase the percentage of workers' children from 1972 to 1998 – this year the study comes from by a promill. Read after: You're still in the 5-percent range. [[Abg. Oillingers: You're not at all!]] If you know that these 5 percent are exclusively scholarship recipients and that the scholarship system is extended in this direction, then this is not the target group that meets a study fee and is supposed to meet. That's a fama, say goodbye! We have also heard today what will otherwise be the subject of accompanying publications of this study fee. Mrs. Federal Minister, you smiled with me about this: There will be no more girls coming to the university in the future. I can't understand how Mrs Mag. Muttonen wants to justify that. She also meant that fewer girls at universities will lead to less education, thus reducing the incidence of birth. It should at least take note that – unfortunately, I say – a higher level of education is counterproductive at the birth rate. It tends, as it were, to lower levels of child warfare, which is simply a sociological reality. We therefore have no such concern at all. The figures also confirm that there will be no nicket in the inscription. That's what we all wish for. I would have liked even more – this is also addressed to the colleagues at the gallery – that it would have come first to the lawfulness of the universities and that the universities would have been given the opportunity to determine study fees relative to their respective offer. By the way, this is covered by the majority of opinions at universities, only – see the introductory statement – these are currently not to be found. If you look at the study on teacher working time from a different point of view, I give Mrs. Schaschl a perfect right. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Schasching is her name!]] – Excuse me for saying the name wrong! – being a teacher is a highly qualified professional activity and not a job. What we get here in numbers shows that teachers have a very wide range of work. It's nice that this was raised. The study shows that more than 80 percent of teachers are highly satisfied with their activity. It also shows that teachers have more than 80 percent above average or at least high average quality of life and are generally very happy and satisfied with their profession. That they are, in turn, proves that the minority that you are currently putting up and even strike with false reports is, and will remain, the minority. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5031	Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5055	I am correcting Mr Grollitsch on one point. Mr Alt-Parteiobmann should not have known what he signed about this signature. That's what you claimed. The fact is that I was told that the students said very well: Here we collect signatures against the tuition fees, and that he should have signed that. – I was not personally involved, but I was so told by the student concerned and by colleague Dobnigg. I also need to correct you in a second point. I didn't talk about a "Kasperl action", but I said that the old partyman is a Kasperl.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5091	That's not more friendly either. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Shame, Mr. Niederwieser!]] [[Abg. Achatz: Indescribable! Low level! It's a typical Dutchman! Very low level! Your name speaks for itself!]] Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5134	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, you already know why I spoke. We have still not solved the problem of school integration. The problem is therefore not solved, Mrs Minister, because you have shown absolutely no interest in the last few years, let alone have done something to promote or expand the school integration of disabled children in Austria. On the contrary, Mrs. Minister! The school integration, which was never a dear child of yours – that's just so; but you don't have to have louder dear children, that should not be the accusation – will continue to be shortened. If you're saying we're building up teachers, it's just going to cost anyone. The first of these to be negatively affected, largely negatively affected, are disabled children in primary school, primary school and also in the secondary level of the AHS. Mrs. Minister! You know, you can't count on naked student numbers. If you do, then there are no support teachers in the classes, then there is no one who can cover the special educational needs for disabled children. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I know you're gonna tell me, There are no support teachers according to law. – Yes, Mrs Minister, that is true; and it is your failure that these support teachers do not exist according to law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But there, Mrs Minister, where these support teachers have so far been present at least on behalf of the school, they will no longer be able to exist in the future, because by reducing the planning posts, schools – even the schools that want this – can simply no longer provide these support teachers. Mrs. Minister! This is a first-class discrimination for disabled people! [[New condolences with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! What does this bring, for example, if you are now also for these disabled billions, to which you say: We need to integrate disabled people into the first labour market with this money? – Mrs Minister, forget about this! If you don't even give the children the chance to go to a regular school, how should they ever get the conditions to really work on the first labour market? – I just can't do that! They must once be ready to accept that, if no one is isolated, even the difficult process of integration must be carried out. Let all children go to school where they want to, where they have their support teachers and where they get their special educational claim fulfilled! Let the children go to school nearby! It is in no way to be seen, Mrs Minister, why specifically disabled children are driven for hours through semi-Austria – and in other federal states it is no different – until they come to her school, a special school, although the regular school is perhaps 600 meters next to her apartment, next to her house. Mrs Minister, this is a cutback, and it is no longer sustainable! I know, Madam Minister, that you do not want to accept that specifically the 17. School Organisation Law Novelle has really created a flood of additional discrimination for disabled people and that the principle requirement of disabled people and their parents in Austria "Similar educational opportunities for all!" has not been heard with you, and is not heard. Mrs. Minister! It's the wrong bill, and it's the wrong saving mechanism if you want to save on the cost of education in Austria. What would that mean? . Today, when I was in my office here in Parliament, I happened to see a pickerl on a lignite column. There it read: Further savings in education policy create even worse politicians in the ÖVP and in the Freedom Party than we already have them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's a lot of truth about that! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But no, we're not!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If you are not willing to let the education cost you and especially give young people the opportunity to learn something and reach an educational level, how should they, when they are grown up, be able to do something if you have already cut off this educational path in childhood by your wrong savings!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: As good as never before!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, please!]] Mr Amon! With your computing skills, it's not as far as you always believe. You said that on average there was a teacher on ten students. [[Abg. Amon: Less!]] Less – the worse, the worse your bill! [[Abg. Amon: Yes?]] They have forgotten that Mr Schweitzer and many others are still educators, but they are still teachers, although they are not in school. [[Abg. Amon: Yes!]] That means they're included in this cut. [[Abg. Amon: Exactly!]] Teachers are also included who have only a half-day obligation. [[Abg. Amon: That's the way it is!]] Just like that! [[Abg. Amon: And that's why, Mrs. Haidlmayr, it's about teaching teachers more!]] If you were to do this and think holisticly and now, then your cut would have to be quite different, because you can't assume that someone who is a teacher, although he is not at all taught, will be included. [[Abg. Amon: Exactly!]] You have to start from those who teach. [[Abg. Amon: That's exactly the problem! There are too many teachers who do not teach!]] There is, please, the number of teachers: Students not 1 : 10. You're going to do this. I can help you, and I'll show you how. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Amon! Sometimes it is also better if teachers are not in class and teach. Sometimes it is better – I mean, Mr Schweitzer – that he is in this house and is observed by us than that he is let go of the children who cannot defend himself. [[Abg. Boy: You're pretty insolent, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: You take a lot out!]] This is not to say, of course, that Parliament is to be the catch-up pool. But in the individual case it is really more reasonable, and in this case quite certain!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5404	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5452	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! From the Red Cross we know the concept of the rescue chain. There – including the lay people – is simply explained what to do in the event of an accident: first secure the danger site, then store the injured from the danger zone and first provide. – Ladies and gentlemen! The same is happening now with the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! We must put the budget in order, and we cannot implement reforms and innovations until we have the figures in hand. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And the government too!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Put the government in order!]] It's easy for a minister, my Ladies and gentlemen, to draw and spend out of the full, much easier than the task that our Federal Minister has, namely, with the scarce resources available to make the optimal. [[Abg. Oillinger: Please fix the government, colleague Großruck!]] That's exactly what happens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire! They drew from the full, even though the pots were already empty. [[Abg. Oils: You're the government!]] You made debts. You have spent, you have said, the debt – what is the cost of the world? After us the flood! - You see now how the Flood is for you. We're now going to fix the budget. In my view, the dedicated goal of not having a re-indebtedness in 2002 is supportive and desirable. It is also supported by the broad mass of the population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Consolidation has been announced, and yet the Minister of Education has succeeded in increasing the teaching budget by 1 billion Schilling – from 76,333 billion to 77,327 billion Schilling. [[Abg. Oillinger:... Programme for the Federal Government!]] The budget for research and science is increased from 31 billion to 38 billion schilling – despite this committed objective of budget consolidation! Ladies and gentlemen! The reaction of the SPÖ seems to me this way: Every speaker, who comes out, brings prayer mills like this, repeats what Mr Gusenbauer, when he is here – he is usually only here when television is present – has spoken to us in his fundamental speeches. I have today... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Help us anyway!]] Yes, Schweitzer, I may make a request to amend the Rules of Procedure to allow Mr Gusenbauer to have an unlimited speaking time, but only if the television broadcasts directly! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Today – I have written it along – you have repeated the following terms. I quote: Cold, scrapping, exploiting, frosty, redistributing, greys, dead saving, preventing, squandering, reducing social measures, decomposition of education, democracy reduction, lawn mower-sparing, broken-out, education system ruin, crash-course, vicious circle and so on. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Today you have repeated these word creations in your contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! A little more optimism would also be recommended for you. You're just pessimistic, you're scattering pessimism. You can't wonder if you're in such a state as you are. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then it must not be surprising if you are found in newspaper comments all over Austria, even in those newspapers and magazines that are not necessarily well-loved for us. Read it through, even between the lines! Or read this comment by Norbert Stanzel in the "Kurier" this week: "Competition of negative marketing" he calls the policy of SPÖ. And: "As recently mentioned, it appears that the SPÖ does not take a step forward in its project to make up for lost terrain by means of an autumn offensive." This is how these comments continue. Read it and think of a better one! Bring positive suggestions! Let us make proposals on how we can invest even more in education, how we can make education offers even more qualified! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy holds an edition of "NEWS" in the direction of the speaker's board.]] These would be proposals, but not "grievances", "grievances" or whatever. It was, I think, last week, dear Heidrun Silhavy, as I saw a picture with a bathtub in front of Parliament next to the headlines on the first side. It's said the students have been demonstrating since five o'clock in the morning. It was only one hand full, and some even wanted to tear down the flag from Parliament. This is bothering me, but what I have seen is even more disturbing to me, namely the following picture: There's a SPÖ boy in the bathtub, the poor devil, he's frozen, he's gone out, he's naked, and he's shuddered. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A pants he put on!]] And that is exactly the condition in which the SPÖ is currently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Extinguished, shivering, and the water is up to your neck! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not bad!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to have a constructive discussion with you on the educational budget. [[Abg. Silhavy: Is that your contribution to the educational budget? Cabaret belongs to the art field!]] We cannot do this because you are not willing to respond to positive arguments and bring in your ideas. You don't think of anything except "grievances." Ladies and gentlemen! The educational budget, education, science, culture are best hands with our wife Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrerin! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bravo!]] As a learned teacher, she knows what she is talking about, she knows what she is talking about, she knows what needs are doing. I think we can all rely on her to do the right thing. She'll do the right thing! Now I have a wish on my own: Help me get an HTL in Grieskirchen soon, because it is necessary that we can also train computer scientists! In this sense, Mrs Federal Minister, I can ask you for your best support. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] ..
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5694	The next speaker is Mr Rada. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5716	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to give Mr Grossruck the right to say that he described the situation of the young man in the bathtub in front of Parliament: The water to the neck, the cold! He's shuddered. – That is true, but not because he was standing in front of Parliament, but he has shuddered at this education policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because he was in the water!]] And all young people can tremble when they and we hear what you say, Mr Grossruck. A further comment on the previous speakers: I hope that many teachers have heard Mr Amon today when he congratulated the Federal Minister on this educational reduction, which is unique in the Republic of Austria. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He was very good!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Make this happen to some examples!]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! If you say that all your actions are consistent with the trade union, I really wonder: Why did the teachers strike on 5 October? December? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what we're asking ourselves!]] It's like Mr Großruck said: The water stands up to the teachers. They will have to take on income losses. And we too will be very soon up to the neck if we have to cope with the loss of quality that Austrian schools will face. Mrs. Minister! You said wrong data would be agitated wrong fears. . I have once again calculated all the data according to your statements in the Committee on Budgets. They constantly argue that all service savings are paid for by the financial compensation. Mrs Bundesminister, that's just not true! The financial compensation is charged only on student quotas, if you want to, on student heads. Now, if you increase this headline in every segment, this means – carefully expected – that by 2004 5 504 posts are less in compulsory schooling. And I'm just talking about compulsory school now. This has absolutely nothing to do with the fact that, according to the budget accompanying law, class board hours and Custodiates are no longer removable. These are simply added cumulatively. That is why at least 7 000 posts are available. If one now calculates from these posts how many of them are double and tripled because there are karenz vacations because there are sick people because there are failures because there are special uses, then that is much more. It is not about teachers fearing their incomes that teachers are concerned about their employment, because it is only about reducing quality. It is certainly common to you, Mrs. Minister, that this week the national school inspectors of Austria are meeting. You may have heard from your officials that, at present – and I emphasize – there are only three federal states in this school year that are able to achieve the compulsory school business in some way, as in the past, securely. Six federal states are already unable to do so. And if all these measures are to be taken, there will be much more. Some examples: In the previous year we decided with enthusiasm the flexible school entry phase in the so reliable folk school. I would like to admit that this is an excellent pedagogical measure, because, at last, even in those school places where a preschool class was no longer possible, these school-leaving but not yet school-leaving children could be properly promoted. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Not manageable! Because it was a pot!]] This school entry phase will no longer exist in the future, because we have to save jobs. We decided two years ago with enthusiasm in this House the foreign language offensive in primary school. With enthusiasm we have used secondary teachers, native speakers, with enthusiasm we have trained our teachers abroad for this task. We need to save hours now. I ask only in my federal country our teachers and the school supervision: Where did you put the first measures at school this year?, comes in the answer: At the native speakers. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is developing here in Austria a situation that could become very fatal. There are also schools in places where well - known parents live. We already know from these parents and from the parent associations that they will pay themselves such a native speaker. But this cannot be Usus at Austrian schools, and our federal government cannot evade its responsibility. Mrs Haidlmayr has already raised the problem of integration here today. There are also rigorous savings measures in the area of integration. If we cannot pay the second teachers, the support teachers and the assistant teachers in the future, what will be the result? – Exclusion will be the result again, it will again be so that children with "other needs" – I just say it so harmlessly – will be taught again in other localities, in the general special school. We also emphasize with regard to our good Austrian school how competent we are in the field of non-binding exercises and free goods. We are all very pleased – and I am happy to join them – when our students cut off excellently at various school olympiades: Olympic winners in physics, Olympic winners in mathematics and other winners! But we can no longer afford this training track – or we do not want to afford it anymore – because this area is greatly saved. Since speaking time is always too short, one last thing, because today we are also discussing the chapter "Science". "Research and Development Policy" is repeatedly presented as a big, important keyword. It is indeed very important, because without research no industry. Even in the industrial economy, jobs are moving in this area. If you look at the research centre Seibersdorf and follow the development there – I mention this because I am extremely convinced, as a member of this region, of the research centre Seibersdorf – you can see: no increase of additional research resources. The only thing that is currently in the discussion, Mrs Minister – I know, is not necessarily your place of business, because it is all about research and development that has been so nested into several ministries that we no longer have a concrete contact person – is: Instead of more research and, instead of more highly qualified researchers, there is a third director, just because the Director-General of Siemens Austria is imagining this. Does he want to advise one of his business friends or make the new woman minister a gift? Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This is true of the school, which is particularly true of the quality of the school, and this is true of all the young teachers who are in education. I have already asked you – and I ask you again today: Do we still need the pedagogical academies if we can't hire young teachers in the next five to ten years anyway?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5825	Mr Brix spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please repeat the case to be corrected and then the actual one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5850	Mr President. High house! Mr Grossruck referred to the fact that Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer has no money because the previous government has made so many debts. I'm actually putting it right. [[Call the ÖVP: There is nothing to correct!]] In the Court of Auditors' Perception Report on Consolidation Packages, it is literally stated in Chapter 12 "Instruction and Cultural Affairs" – I quote – that: "The overall objectives of consolidation have been missed – despite successes in sub-areas."
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5884	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5906	Mr President. High house! This government is giving particular attention to research and impulse policy in particular. But we have another procedure. The funds are not somehow distributed according to the foundry principle or other dubious systems, but we name projects, we have them reviewed and evaluated. The Research and Technology Development Council was created. In this legislative period, there will be 10 billion schilling in addition to innovation – both in infrastructure and research as well as in the development field! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] 7 billion of these schillings go specifically to research. The Research and Technology Development Council will make initial recommendations at the next meetings. We have already identified 24 projects for basic research at universities, for important research areas that we are applying for that will be made available in the next few months. This is forward-looking research policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is a personal concern for me to say something about the whole of compulsory school. It turns out again that the larger opposition party has an extreme problem with responsibility. The Heads of State or Government have the financial compensation, and the Mayor of Vienna has negotiated it. You said: In our field of activity, we contribute to better organisation of compulsory schools. They are familiar with new ratios, with the ratios they will implement by 2004/2005. That's why: Asking me how many teachers there will be in Floridsdorf is a very clear misunderstanding regarding responsibilities and competences! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] School supervisors need not only inform, inform and manage. Only to pass on information is an archival understanding of a management function. Perhaps this was the case before, when you felt that you were a writer for bad news. School supervisors have the task of managing the objectives agreed by the Head of State and the Mayor of Vienna in the financial compensation. That's the job! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] Two important areas still: The actual figures resulting from these new ratios are made up of measures in service law which we will agree with the countries, and of measures taken by the organization. Please read the financial compensation carefully! It is wrong that there are still teachers' posts to calculate the organization and the whole field of service rights. This is a common activity: the law of the service and the measures in the area of organization. It is also wrong if it is claimed that integration is now no longer possible. With regard to the proportion of special education care – I say clearly and clearly: Blind schools are rule schools, deaf schools are rule schools, special schools are regular schools – you should finally stop substituting this school segregation. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: These are special schools!]] A special and a good training can be nothing negative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The ratio 1 : 3.2 in the special school sector shows that we are at the top of Europe with the teachers we provide for children with special educational needs – and I will ensure that this remains the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5991	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6012	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr! I very much regret that your statements are seamlessly linked to those of Mr Niederwieser, whose verbal derailments and errors I must reject. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Our educational speaker Mag. Karl Schweitzer has spoken out of my soul, and the Federal Minister has confirmed it: There are no jobs at risk to young teachers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is indisputable that AHS teachers strike before the conclusion of the negotiations, and it is irresponsible that AHS teachers carry out their extortion efforts on the back of the children who unfortunately are not cared for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimming: Loss of reality!]] The strenuous teachers harm the reputation of the state of teaching in the public, and the impression arises that teachers do not want to fulfil their actual task, namely to teach. It is also falsely always presented in such a way that school-school courses and non-binding exercises are at risk. - That's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen! What's this about? – It is a question of making financial allowances for class board activities and Custodians instead of billing hours in the course of the teaching obligation. May. Schweitzer lit this in-depth. There are many highly motivated teachers who like to work, who like to work a lot and like to earn something for it. And it is time for the performance thinking to be fully received in the teaching profession. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Pragmatization has been carried out in the teaching profession – which shows once again. Here in the National Council, if you can believe the "standard" reports – I have not checked them – every tenth teacher. On the Austrian average, every one is 64.33. Austrian teacher. And I have a request to all teachers sitting here in the National Council that they help to ensure that their status is respected to prevent further such measures. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From education in school to education in museums. The Bundesmuseen Act sees the museums as places of lively and contemporary discussion with them entrusted collection material. Museums are understood as comprehensive educational institutions for children and young people, in which modern and innovative knowledge is imparted. This is a clear mission to museum pedagogy. Museum pedagogy has been booming in recent years, and it is well invested money. It is important that a broad understanding of art and culture exists and is created in the population; and museum pedagogy can make a significant contribution to this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is important that children be taken seriously from a small age as a museum audience. The children's museum "Zoom" – we have gotten our own children's museum relatively late, but for that it is a very good one – will now be given the space corresponding to the new museum quarter. And I like the access of the managing director Claudia Haas, who considers it important to stimulate age-specific motor, cognitive and social skills. The aim is to address all the senses. I saw it with my six-year-old daughter the other day. On the question: What did you like best? she said: everything! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For Ms. Dr. Haas, the essential factor is personal care, which is why she also asks for prior registration. Children have deficits in the donation, even there the museum can partially remedy. Ladies and gentlemen! Museum pedagogy helps to identify tendencies and promote gifts. A person who can shape his training, his professional life according to his inclinations will be successful and happy and thus also contribute to the success of the economy. From education to science. The tertiary education sector is in decline. The accreditation of the private union, which I am very pleased with, has begun a new era in university life. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There's something going on!]] The disseminating of public-law entities is a next important step. At the beginning of this week, the rectors' conference discussed a change in service rights, Pragmatization in favour of multi-annual, renewable service contracts. It is important for the benefit of the customers, the students, for competitive and performance thinking to be received in addition to private and public universities. Each university professor is required to take account of new developments in teaching and to train himself. There is an urgent need for an inter-relationship between the economy and the tertiary education sector. Students need modern know-how as a prerequisite for their professional success. The economy knows the requirements of tomorrow. It is also important to win excellent experts from Germany and abroad for teaching at the universities in Austria. I support the fact that in future we will give the Institute of Stiftung Professorships to public and private universities a greater priority. It is necessary to create tax reliefs for the sponsors of Stiftung professorships. Ladies and gentlemen! It is much to do in the fields of education, culture and science. We should all scramble the sleeves and work together on the reforms!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6137	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6191	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I hold it with Mrs Povysil, who meant that there are beautiful people, and therefore I say: Lovely people! However, if I listen to the cry of Mr Schweitzer, then this "beautiful" is a little relativized. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Calls!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The socialist teachers should leave school so that the young teachers can have room!]] I would like to focus very briefly on my previous speaker, who meant that Mr Niederwieser would have allowed himself verbal derailments. I don't know what happened! However, I would also like to point out a verbal derailment by Mr Schweitzer, who, unpunished by the Bureau, Mr President Prinzhorn, said: You broke that! [[Call the SPÖ.]] – Unpunished, he said that SPÖ has "broken" this, one of the best education systems in the world! What is the point, then, of what you are planning, Mr Schweitzer? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Back to the education budget. It has often been praised today that the educational budget has been increased. There will be more Shilling around 1.3 billion. For the first time, however, only 400 million schillings are due to rents to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. I hope that there will not be developments such as at the universities, specifically the University of Linz. There is a letter from Mr. Landscaping and the Mayor of Linz, which points out that this is not at all possible because there are other contractual regulations. – I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to ensure that this is not the case with other federal schools. It would be really interesting how this budget is to be fulfilled. 1.3 billion schillings more – 400 million are already gone, with the rest the biennial jumps, the "equivalent savings potential", as it is so beautifully defined, are to be paid for salary increases et cetera. The whole thing will be on the back of the teachers. Well, that's opportun, you can cheat on the teachers! But, this will also take place on the back of the students, because it will go towards massive quality reductions, quality losses. Everything for the fetish "zero deficit"! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Halali against the teachers already opened the "simple party member from Carinthia" in the summer, when he meant that one would clean up with these parasitic elements. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He never said that!]] The Federal Government has joined this hunting company and has continued with the new budget and its accompanying laws of this behavior. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have really had sustainable reputation in your field. For half a year, however, you've been playing them. I don't want to go into it anymore. Study fees: You said no in the summer. - Introduced! Next break: Study fees for post-secondary education. – In the Committee as well as decided! How long will it take for us to talk about a general education fee again? How long until a school visit will have to pay back money? By the way, I noticed: The sums parents have to spend today for things that the school needs are not so small, you should talk to the parents about it. Next break: Mrs Gehrer says no teachers will be terminated! – In all schools, the class board and Custodiatisations cover a total of 3 500 teachers. Of course, they will not be terminated, their contract will not be extended, they will become unemployed. In the case of compulsory schools, the financial compensation package will be added. You have already said that you do not care, but fact is that this is also for the period of financial compensation of 5 000 to 7 000 teachers. If all of this can still be picked up, I'll look at it! That cuts into the quality of our education system! There will then be no more full-day schooling, there will be no more integrative measures, small schools will be closed, the teaching obligation will probably be increased and the number of pupils increased. Mrs. Federal Minister! I read through the interview you gave the "Small Newspaper." You were asked if these two points, namely teaching and schooling, were from the table, and you said "first of all" – so you will certainly talk about them again! They say again and again that nothing will be shortened. I should like to give you a simple example of a 12-class primary school, the main school of Schwerberg, where I come from. In this autumn, in the run-up to these measures, this school has already had to make cuts to such an extent that there are no more sports-indulgence groups – that ten hours have been saved – that second and third performance groups have been combined, in this case in the field of mathematics – saved four hours. But the pikanery on the edge is: It's always said that all of this is taken up by retirement. In this small school there will be no retirement in the next seven years, because all those who can still judge themselves are already in retirement! Mrs Minister, one last thing: You say you're on dialogue. – Where was the dialogue with the trade unions when it was introduced coldly by law that a supply hour was to be kept free? A working hour is free to keep! Where else is that? Where was this dialogue when it was introduced to reduce the overtime costs quite simply? Where is there such a thing? And that without social partnership clarification! I have already mentioned the cold increase in the teaching obligation by the class board and Custody regime. Now you are disappointed, Mrs Minister, because the AHS teachers do not talk to you anymore, but simply want to strike! In this interview with the "Small Newspaper" and the "Mitagsjournal" you say clearly and clearly: The package will no longer be strapped on! – Yes, what kind of opinion is that, for an attitude to dialogue? [[Interference of Federal Minister Gehrer.]] You don't talk to the people, you just tell them. You say here in this interview: But now we have to get it close to the people! Now, after it's decided! This is not a form of dialogue, which I believe is an increase of teachers. There is now a massive reduction in the quality of Austrian education, so that we can say: Well, now we've broken everything, but a zero deficit has succeeded us!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6294	Mr Schweitzer spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6318	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My previous speaker, Mr. Gaßner, meant that the head of state of Carinthia, Dr. Jörg Haider, called the teachers "parasitic elements". – That does not correspond to the truth! With this expression, which I would not use myself, he meant two unserviced trade unionists in Carinthia, who gave up service! – have been booked on their account in about 150 000 S per month as a result of multiple salaries, which corresponds to an annual earnings of 2.1 million schilling. [[Call the SPÖ: Isn't that a teacher?]] I think that's too much for union workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6357	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Leiner. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6378	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! In short, something positive – I hope that the opposition can also contribute to this – namely to the medical study, which is now being reformed. I believe that the student who has chosen the medical profession should already be able to hit the scientific track in the course of education, but above all should see the patient in the foreground. This is ensured by the new structure of the study. I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Minister, also for all the officials, especially the professors of the Faculty of Medicine in Vienna, who have developed a curriculum that really redesigns medical studies in the future. In this study, particular attention is now given to the patient, to the people who are in a huge state of emergency, who are sick in an unusual environment when he comes to the hospital who has been torn out of his everyday environment, the family, the workplace, who must be afraid that he cannot return to the workplace, which is often scheduled, which is sometimes still a number in the hospital today – I personally have experienced this and will perhaps experience it again on Saturday – who is too little informed, waiting, not knowing what is really happening to him now, and very often stamped out by numbers. This new study order puts patients in the foreground as humans. Its special needs are taken into account in the new structuring of medical study. I hope that, as started, the study can now be completed in 12 semesters. There are very many internships planned, in small groups and patients close to them. At the end, before the third examination, mandatory 24-week Famulatures are introduced, i.e. a very patient-related training. Electoral elements are also introduced, which will lead to a deepening, a scientific deepening of medical studies, bringing the basics of scientific work and providing a good preparation for the work of diplomas. This also provides for future scientific activities of the individual. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As one of the medical science sectors, I now want to take out biotechnology. A special sensitivity to the evaluation of biotechnology in medicine needs to be given in the future. High scientific and therapeutic relevance is recommended. Biotechnology intervenes in the entire medicine, naturally goes far beyond medicine and affects fundamental questions of our self-understanding, our social responsibility, the design of the social framework conditions, the sensuality of science and technically feasible. I'm thinking about embryo research, of cloning. In this respect, we are required, especially we physicians! The resulting conflict potential should also be discussed with medical students, discussed, solutions should be found, in particular with regard to the extent to which and in what form possible majority decisions and legislative measures should influence medical activities, must or may, even if ethically sound solutions are particularly difficult! – I can experience it again and again. In the new curriculum of the Faculty of Vienna, however, there is no food science and psychosomatic medicine as a chair. The latter, I think, is a very important subject in which the relationships between the body and the soul are researched and should also be taught, with which we doctors in daily life are often confronted. As you know, just cross- and joint pain have 70 to 75 percent psychogenic causes. That's why I'm missing psychosomatics, and I'm sorry. [[I should like to congratulate the EIA and the Greens as well as representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To be considered positive is the new test system, which now becomes more objective and includes a method mix. As has already been said, training is now being done in person with the patient, and patient-oriented discussions are conducted in small groups in front of the patient. I am firmly convinced that by doing so, the student is faced with the inadequacy, with failure, with mistakes, also with disability, with death, with the flaws of our existence at all, so not only with the feasible, but also with the real disability and the disease that accompanies the whole life, and thus gets much more understanding of the illness and the mental situation during such a phase. [[I should like to congratulate the EIA and the Greens as well as representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We didn't learn that! I wish. We have had to pay a lot of teaching money at the expense of the patients. I wish the current students didn't have to pay it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6456	The next speaker is Mr Faul. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6477	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to comment on this really levelless and low speech by Mr Grossruck, but I must say one thing: I was actually very surprised that your stoic clubman Khol suddenly jumped up and was so happy about this low level. This clearly shows the trend of the ÖVP, the tendency down and the tendency towards minimalism. I've been able to see that today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More insight has already been made by Mr Amon. Today, when he has addressed the limits of commitment for the students, he admits indirectly that the majority of students in Austria are dependent on a work that depends on the merit of confidence. And they will have to work even more in the future because they will have to earn the 10 000 S tuition fees you have introduced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] He then pointed out – and for me this is objectionable – that there is also an educational credit, an educational check. Yes, what are we going to find in the teacher area, Mrs. Minister? – Teachers who have completed their studies have a lot of debt and certainly have no job opportunities. These are your visions of the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! In fact, I have always admired you, as you have referred to the teachers in many questions of personal criticism, on questions of the criticism of the Court of Auditors. You have also faced the teachers when the Minister of Finance has intervened in your department and finally your Federal Chancellor has openly told you. But recently, Mrs. Minister, have worked You're paralysed like you've been bitten by a snake, maybe by a cobra, I don't know. You repeat monotons of your stand in the newspapers and even today. You're talking about non-existent teacher unemployment, you're presenting But your early retirement model, your social plan, knows that it will only be very conditional and very weak. And you ignore the horror figures calculated by the experts of the expected service releases of teachers in the range of up to 10,000 posts. In my opinion, you also react with incomprehensibness and, above all, with haema to the rightly announced combat measures of teachers, and you hope like Mrs. Vice-Chancellor and your party colleagues... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: With what right? What's the reason?]] I'll tell you the reason. – You hope, like your vice chancellor or your simple member of the party from Carinthia or you from the liberals, that the majority of the population will react negatively to these combat measures. They hope, in particular, that the press will react negatively. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: With what right are these combat measures?]] Mrs. Minister! Dear Karl Schweitzer! You've sown enough envy. Friends of the FPÖ! You've sown enough envy. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: With what right?]] In clear words: "privileged knights", even more sharp: the "parasites of the nation" – we have just heard it from you – the "Ferienkaiser", the " half-day workers". This is an extract from a chimpforgie of the FPÖ delegates here in the house. And I think back to how two days ago the Vice-Cancellor pointed out a speaker from the ministerial bank in a haemic way, because he said the number of officials to be released by 5,000 to a lesser number. She said: No, no, it's still 5,000 more that we're going to release. She's happy about it. That's your policy! Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A lot of envy comes from your ministry. And I can now try – Karl Schweitzer, perhaps you can listen to me – to give a practical example here so you can really see the problem, an example from the city of Weiz. – Mr Drinkl is not here now, unfortunately, he would know it. – In Weiz there is a primary school with 36 classes, different priorities, the oldest teachers are 50, the youngest are between 35 and 40 years old. All are pragmatic or have an I L contract. Because of your first measures, Mrs. Minister, three teachers have to leave because these 60 hours are missing. In retirement go, as you suggest, the 50-year-olds certainly cannot. They are loud specialists: One wears the computer area, which you have so excellently set up today, and is the engine for integration. The second takes care of the whole day and has a family with two children who have to provide for themselves, because the husband is on the second path of education. And the third colleague is a musical engine. They cannot be moved to the nearest places of service, because there is the same situation. Mrs. Minister! What am I doing with these colleagues? You don't know; in the newspapers you say: I don't know. In this inconsistency, I thought of the head of state of Styria who wrote a letter to me before the election, confirming that these colleagues cannot be terminated, not released, but transferred to the district staff reserve. Mrs. Minister! The army of reserveers in the Weiz District Staff Reserve lets you greet. You will be unemployed teachers, perhaps with a salary guarantee, as you have suggested, but they will not be able to serve the savings target that the Minister of Finance has called for.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6579	The next item is Mrs Wachslander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6600	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Faul has just used a term, namely "Ferienkaiser". I can really say it's probably a very, very widespread opinion that you say: You become a teacher because of the beautiful long vacation, because of the few working hours and because you also deserve well in the higher service age. That's a widespread opinion that I can't prove to you in demoscopic terms, but it's really a fact, as you can see when you're going around like this. [[Abg. Huber: Your colleagues always say that!]] I am not going to comply with this opinion, no, quite the contrary. There are very, very many teachers who really practice their profession decently and well. And I always assumed that you become a teacher because you feel the ability to impart knowledge, because you feel the ability or desire to accompany young people, make them valuable members of this society, and because you see this profession as something beautiful, something very important. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, with this assessment, I am going to lose a little bit, because if I take the 5th. December call into memory and see that 20,000 AHS teachers are ready to step into warning strike immediately, then, I have to say, this looks a little different for me. Honestly stated: The argument that we are entering a warning strike to save young colleagues, so to speak, from unemployment seems to me to be somewhat vague. I've been a teacher myself once and have to tell you: The pit struggles for better hourly layout, for better discount hours and so on, whether they are very solid, I dare doubt. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Instead, I am sure that the re-evaluation of the activities of the class and Kustodiats has raised these emotions. The planned hour more in the class, however, would have to be a gift for every good teacher, because this means he gets close to what he really wants to do, namely to work with the children and not to carry out administrative activities and to conduct class books. In addition, teachers are now being extra honoured for this outsourced work with a lump sum. And there can also be shown solidarity by going here as an older teacher and saying: Okay, the Custodiat receives the young teacher, because he can earn more! – That's why it's all right! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm quite sure: This structural measure is a step towards equalisation. With this, Mrs. Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are hopefully also at the beginning of a genuine service law reform, which we consider to be not only optimal, but also for the longest time, namely to a performance-oriented salary scheme, which between initial and final reference forms a relatively flat curve, with a function component that ensures that certain functions are paid off regardless of the age of service, and with a performance component that ensures that, in turn, individual benefits can be paid in return from the service-age principle. Ladies and gentlemen! The school of tomorrow has only the future if it develops into an educational enterprise! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, very good!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, in particular Mr Antoni and Mr Brosz. They've been magnified by our education spokesperson. On the occasion of the budget speech on our Minister of Finance's budget 2000, Schweitzer invited us to participate in an educational campaign. – After much I didn't notice, except that you're querulating. On the other hand, the implementation of the educational offensive is very important. But what are you doing? They go here and insecure with incorrect representations on the most suspicious teachers, students and parents, and they only talk about horrors and hetcerically propagate the caputt saving of the education system.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6666	"The most suspicious", "hetceric" – that's not necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6687	Sorry! But act with such actions Of course, they are counterproductive and contribute to the fact that teachers who really feel that being a teacher is still a vocation are more than frustrated. Ladies and gentlemen! I have nothing against methods of negotiating and thinking: That and that we demand! But, for example, I found a request paper from the AKS, the "Action Critical Students and Students", and it came about in your presence, Mr Brosz. It contains many details that are truly entitled to be realized, but there are also demands, in view of which I have to ask: Are young people told where the necessary money comes from? How can I pay for that? How can I finance that? Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They seduce you with your slogans, with your panic, your misinterpretations – I hope I don't get a call again – with your greed for reconquering power to overreact teachers like students and parents. [[Abg. Edlinger: You didn't get one anyway!]] And that's really not necessary. Arguably, then there won't be those strikes! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, my appeal, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: Give the youth, teachers, education and for yourself a chance to meet the needs of the future! Stop your boycott calls and het campaigns, then teachers, students and students will be creative again where they are at home and should be: in schools and educational institutions – and not on the streets! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6747	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6768	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! After what we have heard in the last few minutes, I would like to return to a factual, constructive opposition word. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But this speech was very factual!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You can see how you see the view of objectivity, Mr Schweitzer!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now Edlinger is already making intermediate calls for education!]] On the subject of tuition fees. Mrs. Federal Minister! In connection with the introduction of tuition fees – after you first said you would reject them, and then have been convinced after not particularly strong resistance – you spoke very proudly of a taboo break that you are doing here. That is true, you are doing a taboo, namely adopting a system of equal opportunities education and removing barriers to access to knowledge and education in the education system. I asked myself: Why Makes You proud of this taboo break? Why are you proud of this taboo break? – Are you therefore proud of the fact that with the introduction of 10 000 S tuition fees you are creating an entry into this system and thus opening up the opportunity to increase fees in the next few years? Someone who starts a study today must consider: Will it remain with these 10,000 S, or will I have to expect even more? Or are you proud of it – and I think this is the true reason – because you know it is the first step towards a system change in the education system? It is the first step towards a system change that is going on – and we know that this is already being discussed, not in connection with this budget, but as an idea of where one could develop it – that school money should also be introduced, as the colleague Niederweiser mentioned today, and then we have a system of education, after which perhaps only the compulsory school, that is basic education, can be freely accessible to all, and all that could be built on and beyond, can afford opportunities, only more accessible to those who can afford it. [[Abg. Amon: The compulsory school is more than the folk school!]] So we are dealing here with taboos, a change of system: away from a system of equal opportunities to an education system for those who can still afford it. But the criticism of the tuition fees has not only come from people who reject it from fundamental considerations, from fundamental socio-political considerations, because they are concerned, but also – and I think that is particularly interesting – from those who support tuition fees, for it was obvious that these tuition fees were very daunting – that was the judgment that could be read everywhere – and were unthinkingly introduced. So I think this introduction was not only wrong in education policy, it was also done on the basis of a bold concept. What to criticise proponents of tuition fees Your concept? – On the one hand, you introduce tuition fees without taking up structural reforms at universities at the same time. What can people who now have to pay for it for studying only for so long because they do not find the appropriate conditions in many areas at universities to be able to do their studies as quickly as they really want? There are a lot of students who would like to get through with their studies more quickly, but have to wait for them to enter the corresponding events, which therefore do not find the appropriate conditions for a fast study, and these students will have to pay "strave" in the future for the conditions they find. The second criticism was that you introduce the fees not for a service offer that is used but for time. I have already said that, on the one hand, the conditions are not always met. But there is something important to this: that many students – we know, this is a very large number – working alongside their studies, on the one hand, in order to earn their existence – will have to work even more – and on the other hand, what is very important to gain professional experience and to stand with a leg in a professional life. By the way, this is also a recommendation from the OECD that students should be active in addition to training, which it calls future-oriented. And by the way you introduce these tuition fees, you are punishing exactly those people who carry out this forward-looking form of combination of study and profession. The third criticism was on the design of your loan model. You have decided to owe the students what we refuse. In principle, there would have been other models that would have been more tolerant and more meaningful. The effect on the budget has become almost null, and it can only be concluded that this measure, still under the title "social security", which is particularly cynical, is set for purely ideological reasons and not for budgetary reasons, that it is only about initiating this system change in the field of education, which I have outlined.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6846	Next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6867	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If I listen to some previous speaker like this, I always hear the criticism that the Federal Government has no visions, it is always spoken of how bad it is for teachers without considering what potential, what resources are in those who pass through and use our educational institutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to document here that we, the ruling parties, are those who actually have visions, and that those who have no visions are just the opposition. I can also present these visions to you by means of Lower Austrian examples, to examples from the technical universities and the Danube University in Krems. The added value for all of us in the vocational colleges is that there is a close link between theory and practice and that, in particular, the technical universities have gained enormous labour market and regional importance. We also know that international companies pay particular attention to where the educational potential lies and where the training potential is. That is to say, through the colleges, the regions will be strengthened, and that is why it will continue to be important for us to dissociate the high-school courses, as this will help to improve the disadvantages of the region. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can show a positive example from Wiener Neustadt, which stands for the fact that a high-school location of the company is based on company settlements. In Wiener Neustadt there is not only a technical university, but also the regional innovation center, and, above all, through this link between the University of Applied Sciences and the Regional Innovation Centre, we have managed to create a tangible technology center. The Lower Austrians in particular know that we have just completed the second phase of expansion in Wiener Neustadt. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] We are proud to point out that in this technology centre there are research projects by Seibersdorf, from TU-Vienna, that there are companies from the software industry that are located there the center for electrochemistry, echem, as well as numerous well-known companies such as Siemens. This example alone recognises that education and research are simply the best feeding ground for future jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, this is confirmed not only by the case of Wiener Neustadt, but also by numerous international studies, which clearly show that the technical universities are reducing or preventing migration trends and that there is an immense strengthening of rural areas. I should like to address the regional innovation centres very briefly. We can – thank God! – in Lower Austria, refer to a comprehensive network. Above all, it should be stressed that 90 percent of modern, innovative business start-ups have long-term holdings and that through these innovative companies it is also possible to create and ensure future-looking jobs. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is active, modern site policy for me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is a location policy based on three pillars: the economy, research and education. This is our location policy, which is the location policy of the Federal Government. Let me also remind you of your location policy: "Consumer", nationalised – in the truest sense of the word, the economic incompetence of SPÖ is to be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Faul: Your speech has such a long beard!]] I'll be back to the colleges for a short time. We will continue to force the expansion of technical universities. This is reflected in the budget estimate alone. We have increased the budget by 250 million schilling, from 855 million to 1.1 billion schilling. This alone underlines the essential importance of this educational rail. The second positive example was the Danube University in Krems. This is a state training institute, a state training university with private-sector leadership, which recently celebrated its five-year anniversary and – with which we can happily appreciate – for its graduates there is great demand. The example of the Danube University shows that in addition to the funds from the Federal Budget, huge sums of state resources are also involved. The Danube University in Krems is being expanded, and the state of Lower Austria has taken over it to provide 495 million Schilling for this expansion. We are well aware of this and are very happy to do so, because we are aware that knowledge for us is an advantage, that knowledge for us means competence and that knowledge ultimately means the future for us and especially for the young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Importantly, and this is also noted in the example of the Danube University, is the international link. There are 600 speakers from 31 countries at the Danube University. This shows that this internationality is simply a matter of course for us. These examples, which I have now provided, are simply intended to show that these educational institutions are promoting science, research and the labour market. I would like to congratulate our Minister. In spite of increased conditions, it has presented a very good budget approach, and it has also done so with great sensitivity. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6947	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6971	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Mikl- Leitner has just given a whole series of real injustices in her speech, I would just like to point out: She said, among other things, that the SPÖ had any vision and concepts for an appropriate educational and research policy, but that you, the Federal Government, the current majority, were the owner of these concepts, and demonstrated this with examples, for example with the University of Applied Sciences and the Danube University Krems and the University of Applied Sciences and the Technology Centre Wiener Neustadt. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You know that these fact-finding claims are wrong. You also know that most of the decisions you spoke about here were taken at the time when I was the Federal Minister of Science and Research, and that the pure polemics and no facts were. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7010	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7032	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! New study orders are installed under the University Study Act. The reorganisation of medical studies is important for the future medical care of the population. She, Mrs. Federal Minister, saw Latin knowledge as a prerequisite for the study. Now the emphasis is on the skills for the future profession. The reorganisation of the study is also based on foreign experience. The study will not be carried out after the traditional medical subjects with the very theoretical introduction of the preclinical clinic, but rather practical learning and study as well as small group teaching are recommended in order not to lose sight of people as a whole. This "medicine study new" was presented last week by the Wiener Medizinische Fakultät, but will require more funds. The better education and, on average, shorter duration of study, since in the future students will be charged with tuition fees, are particularly important. Students have problems finding training places. Too few places in most studies and therefore delay in time result in loss of family support. Mr Amon and Mr Graf's statements on rapid study are remarkable. According to their biographical data, both academic careers were not so fast. Colleague Amon has Realgymnasium, Handelsakademie/Handelsschule – perhaps the private university was attended without Matura. Col. Graf was only 27 years old, so also a relatively long study duration. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I was a work student!]] Both of them would not have received grants due to their performance. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I worked!]] Mr Grossruck, who is always so critical, has ten years of secondary schooling and an abandoned medical course. But he has received his youthful mind, as one sees in the position of the microphone with which he manipulates. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The federal funding of the university clinics is unfortunately not carried out accordingly. In addition to research and teaching, the patients are also optimally cared for there. The Federal Government is responsible for the teaching and research work of the university clinics, the clinical additional burden. Complaints of the city of Vienna prove that the federal government does not comply with its obligations at Austria's Klinikum, the AKH. The government's budget adjustment must not be carried out on the back of the sick and our scientific reputation. In the AKH Vienna, most doctors and students are trained, the scientific output showed more than twice as high an impact factor as for Graz and Innsbruck together. I call for a rapid agreement with appropriate funds. The doctors of the AKH work an average of 72 hours a week. – When will the Hospital Working Time Act finally be complied with? Whoever the health is at heart, is following BSE development with anxiety and quick to wish for research. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Biosciences are among the key research and technology sectors of the 21st century. ==References== Great hopes and expectations are placed in them. "Everything is sleeping," says Christoph Zielinski, an innovative researcher and user of new methods such as cancer vaccination in a "standard" talk about Austrian science policy "relating to a satisfying infrastructure that could facilitate the emergence of new biotech companies". Zielinski says "that the AKH could create medical Silicon Valley, but I have the impression that no one understands that of the relevant bodies". Austria's bioscientists are very committed, but receive, in an international comparison, low research funding. The Government Declaration refers to the special research focus on bioscience, and there is hardly any funding. Foreign companies earn summaries of biotechnically produced drugs, and for our health care they are almost inalienable. To join internationally in front of the front, appropriate means are needed. We invest too little in international comparison. Mrs. Federal Minister! Separate yourself from the non-social study fees that exclude gifted persons from studying, hunger Don't take out the AKH, each of us can need it, support the "medicine study new" and remember that the biosciences are among the most important hopes for the future! We Social Democrats want Austria at the front and not as the final light.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7128	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported and is therefore subject to negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Sevignani. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7152	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Education and youth are the raw material from which our future is made. This requires not only the best possible distribution of resources in the educational area, but also structural changes. We need modern administrative and structural reforms, greater flexibilization of service times, conversion periods for multiservices and the return of a stronger principle of performance, which can also be understood and controlled. As a teacher at a higher Federal Teaching Institute, I fully understand the government's action in the field of education and schooling, but not for the announced strike of the AHS teachers' colleagues. . A praise at this point was expressed to the compulsory school teachers and to the many other teachers, who do not participate in the trade union's fights, but at the negotiating table raise their fears. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the volume of expenditure of 77 billion schilling 419 million in the chapter on education and culture is used well and target-orientedly. It is a sign of efficiency that staff expenditure can be reduced by 31.6 million schilling compared to the current year. We even have an increase of 335 million in the main items of expenditure. Our goal is a modern and forward-looking school and education system for Austria. There are no serious suggestions from the SPÖ, neither on how to finance the social state nor on how to reduce the debt, how to obtain pensions, nor on how to secure the future of our youth and the opportunities for education. The SPÖ has neither a vision nor a reform programme for the future of the country and people. – The only thing you have in terms of concepts are combat measures and the road! [[Abg. Edlinger: Isn't the posch your friend?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The teacher-student ratio in Austria is much cheaper than the OECD average. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the OECD section a teacher comes to 17.9 pupils, in Austria the ratio is 1 : 11.8. And just in the area of the AHS, where strike is threatened, we have an even tighter relationship. In the AHS sub-level, a teacher has 9.3 pupils in Austria, and the OECD average is 15.5 pupils. In the AHS upper level, 9.7 pupils are cared for by a teacher in Austria, in the OECD 15.1. Ladies and gentlemen. These figures force us to think about the administrative structures and the remuneration of teachers' administrative activities. The working time study showed that teachers are only 37 to 35 percent of their total working time in the class. In Austria there is a teacher per year 616 hours in the class, in Germany 788 hours and in the OECD section 642 hours. For this purpose, a new regulation for Custodiats and Ordinariats is long overdue. Class discount hours or board hours, Custodiates and Ordinaries will be paid in future regardless of age of service and salary in lump sums. I am of the opinion that: Teacher is not a profession, teachers are supposed to be a vocation! Teachers must again be able to fulfil their actual task of teaching in class with pupils, with young people. No one needs to be afraid of the measures. Additional benefits will be paid, and there will be no terminations. Other claims are false! The Federal Minister Gehrer said it already: Retirement, overtime reduction, and social plans such as the early retirement model avoid cases of hardship. Teachers lose nothing by the new regulation because the additional benefits are paid in flat-rate amounts. Class Boards: 20 000 S a year, Custodiates: 16 000 S a year. We are on our way to greater justice in the education system. I'm sure after 5th. In December, after these strikes, the AHS teachers also returned to their minds, as all the measures were negotiated with the trade union. Our goal, ladies and gentlemen, is a modern and future-oriented education system for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7212	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7233	Mr President. Mrs. Ministra! High house! The basic study without fees is my concern – that is what you said in the spring of this year, Mrs. Minister. Since the zero deficit has now been declared in Austria, you too have had to agree to the introduction of tuition fees, and you have probably not been involved in the decision of the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance as much as the rectors complain that they have not been involved in your decision. It is alleged that tuition fees reduce the duration of the study: Now about two thirds of all students are already working next to their studies, and in the future they will have to work even more, which will extend the duration of their studies. It is alleged that universities' services are improved, and that they are supposed to be more quality through tuition fees. – In reality, most of it is used to stop budget holes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is alleged that higher tuition fees increase social security: The scholarships have already been completely unfairly distributed, and this effect will be reinforced by the tuition fees. It is said that the performance of the students is to rise. Rather, it is true that the academic rate in Austria is not high and we are in the lower third of the EU countries, and it is quite clear that tuition fees are going to intensify this situation, because all the rules of the market are going to decrease demand if a good will be more expensive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that's all you want. It's about a social numerus clausus. All the measures in the area of study aid cannot compensate for this because the students of study grants represent only a small part of the total student population and, on the other hand, parents with one, two, sometimes three children are particularly affected by this measure. If one calculates the additional costs resulting from the implementation of the Studienförderungsgesetz, the budgetary effect will be small. For this, you have joked with all students, even with those of your own group. Students who are not well equipped financially will have to work by 10,000 s more each year in the future. By 10,000 s more work for a student or student is called full-time work for three to four weeks. The fact that this time is ultimately missing as a learning time understands itself. Therefore, study fees do not reduce the duration of the study, but they prolong it. The fact that you also want to cover tuition fees by offering a loan model and negotiating it with the banks is the bottom line for the barrel. On the one hand, talking about the zero deficit that one must save, no further debt should be made, and on the other hand, to assume a low-income population group, to indebted oneself to what one refuses for himself and the state, is white cynicism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More than half of the parents of students have an income of less than 30 000 S net per month. Almost one third of students come from families with net less than 20,000 S per month. For these students the study fees have exactly the deterrent effect you want. This is your social confidence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But how do you, Mrs. Minister, have on 1st. March 2000 said: It is not my concern to introduce tuition fees for basic training. I mean, it is the tax payer's job to pay the educational offers in Austria from the folk school to a doctorate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The government has actually crossed the budget with the lawn mower in order to save itself a few costs in each department without considering the control effects of study fees. Neither have you voted on the economic situation, nor have you taken into account the different support situation in the different fields of study, nor have you evaluated the actual costs of a study place, nor have there been steering effects for universities, nor are there incentives systems for students, nor have you taken into account social equality. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's all come up with!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Then it's even worse!]] This has not been thought of at all, and therefore, Mrs Minister, I believe that it would be better if you were to withdraw in order, just as the government has already done in the form of unemployment benefit or in the period of suspension, when you have noticed, in the face of the confrontation with reality, how far-reaching and unsocial your proposals were in truth. – Maybe that much again. One word was permitted to me, because Mr Schweitzer here, in an actual correction, referred to that statement by his party chairman of the "parasitic elements" and relativized that Mr Haider had not referred the statement of the "parasitic elements" to the teachers, but he had meant teacher representatives, specifically two Carinthian teachers, who in Carinthia supposedly deserved 150 000 S. It is true that Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider on 28 October. June 2000 said: Parasitic elements must note that the carnival is over. – Now I do not want to comment more closely on this Nazi language and do not judge it more closely. In my view, it makes no difference – I like to repeat it and at any time – whether it means teachers or teachers' representatives. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] Mr Schweitzer is not here now, but I am still telling him – on the Minutes – because it is interesting to know and ask: What is the income limit at which Mr Schweitzer will start and where will the parasite begin? – This is the crucial question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the key question of the liberals regarding the privilege discussion: With what income does parasiticism begin? – You don’t need to get nervous, you on the right half of the empire. I'd like to have told you that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Mr Khol is not in the house either, but you will give it to him. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In the house he is already!]] – He can't always be there, I understand. [[Abg. Achatz: Mr. Gusenbauer is not in the house either! Where's Gusenbauer?]] I'm fine. He can't always sit down. They're completely artificial. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I understand that a clubman can't always be here. That's all right. [[Abg. Ahatz: Aha! Now at once!]] [[Abg. Haller: Aha!]] With regard to the debate yesterday, Mr Khol has been told: He was laughing at home, really laughing at home, about Mrs Schwemlein, when he tabled a motion for a resolution on the occasion of the Kaprun tragedy and then he was not there when the vote was taken. That's the point. Mr Schwemlein was not there during the vote because he was ill, had to go to the doctor and only because of the submission of the request. That is why he was not present in the vote himself. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I can't tell Khol! Khol can't know that!]] That is why we should tell Mr Khol before he says such a thing, let him be careful, because there are fine differences as to whether you are sick as a Member of Parliament, Mrs Schwemlein – he has told honourable Member Puttinger – or whether you are going to a football match like MEP Westenthaler. That's a fine difference. Secondly, there is no one going away from Parliament's Westenthaler either.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7411	Mr Amon spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7435	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In connection with the introduction of tuition fees, Mr Posch said that, according to all the rules of the market, demand for a good will decrease if the price increases. You said that. Firstly, the question should be asked whether this is a market. The fact is, however, that, in the case of a market, we have a monopoly provider or an oligopol and therefore the regulation you have set up is not true, as the current inscription figures prove.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7465	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7487	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! If I speak today about the "Education" chapter, I would like to talk about the diversity of Austrian education, about the opportunities and innovations introduced by ÖVP ministers and which have proved to be very successful, such as the technical universities. But at the moment, one does not seem to get over one thing on the topic of education, and that is the tuition fees. It does not matter that these tuition fees in the 15 EU countries are the rule rather than the exception, and it seems that they do not matter at all that these countries are largely governed by social democrats. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only in Austria, education according to red and green must remain free of charge. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We should finally say that education is free. It must be clear to us that anyone has to pay for the training, and a student in Austria costs over 100 000 S per year. Unfortunately, not all students are successful, and therefore the drop-out quota is also relatively high. It is therefore necessary to introduce the Austrian system to the other countries. A measure will be that from the winter semester of 2001 we will remove around 800 S tuition fees per month, such as most EU countries and, for example, social countries such as France or Holland. I do not see that a single mother in the ach so social Vienna or social democratic Vienna at least – the emphasis lies on at least! – 1 200 S kindergarten fees must pay, and 800 S tuition fees per month should be unimaginable. I think you're going through reality very much here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But we have also provided social symmetry: In order that these fees do not exclude anyone from their studies, there is a bundle of social measures. You know that, and yet you say outside and inside permanently the opposite! At least we increase the study aid by 10 000 S per year, so the students who need support receive the tuition fees back. The circle of those who receive a scholarship will be extended. For example, children from small and medium-sized families will be entitled to study aid for the first time. You can't stress that often enough. Overall, we increase this study aid by almost half a billion schillings in the 2001 budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Students will also receive an additional 100 000 S per year. Many students like to work next to their studies because they have a much greater chance of getting into their profession immediately afterwards. Not to be forgotten: The family allowance is maintained and will not be abolished as requested by the Socialists during the coalition negotiations. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Needed!]] - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this set of measures, we will also spend some 400 million schillings from 2001 onwards. This also means that every second student or student is supported by the state. For this, free access to universities is maintained, which is not a matter of course in all other countries. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we must not forget what happens to these tuition fees. We have not decided on them from Jux and Tollery, but because we urgently need to invest in universities. Many people rightly complain that the situation is unbearable in some areas. A number of changes will also be made between the professors and the teaching staff, such as a new right to service more efficiently in the design of the teaching firm. Here too much will be in motion because if much is no longer free, then there will be less for nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7558	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7580	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I spoke again in connection with the tuition fees, but in particular with the findings made by representatives of the two government parties. It's going to be amputated. There is a bunch of social measures, and everything will not get so bad. I would like to address two very specific groups, and I believe that if you are advocating and taking a set of measures, you should also extend this to these groups. Of these 10,000 S per year of study, of course – there have already been previous speakers who have mentioned this – are particularly affected by the few employees, the alone students and the self-sustaining students who are now being treated for this tuition fee. We all know that the number of working students in Austria is more than 50 percent. They will all admit to me that the reality of studying in this group looks different. You can only register less, accept fewer offers from the university. They need longer, and if no special measure is put in place for them, they will be asked much more to cash out than others. They usually study for eight, nine or ten years. I think it is wrong to punish people who do this – I say so – for their willingness to learn life-long, to take quality-enhancing learning seriously. That's the one group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second group, which I think should not be forgotten, is those doctoral students who are seeking a scientific career and who, of course, take much more time in their first research work than a normal doctoral student does because they know very well that this research work depends much on their professional career. This is a solid, comprehensive work, which can take two or three years to produce. Also, these people should experience a suspension, as you call it, or receive a measure so that they are not stamped to those who are charged by these fees for a fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7628	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7649	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The debate of the budget chapter "Culture" gives me the opportunity to speak on a subject that is not only a long-standing personal concern to me, but also a connection with which I am connected by my former professional activity in the cultural administration of Graz City, namely the protection of monuments. Ladies and gentlemen! In this year we celebrate 150 years of monument care. This is a anniversary of the state monument care, because of the fact that on 31 December, it was the first time in the history of the city. ==References== The Central Commission for the Exploration and Conservation of the Building Monuments, as it was then called, has been established. This central commission had the task of initially meeting both the requirements of research and conservation within the framework of the Ministry of Trade and Commerce, which was at the time also responsible for the construction authority. This was a goal that has remained largely unchanged to this day. The focus of the activities was the exploration of the architectural monuments, in order to determine at all once the objects that were worthy of protection and which were to be preserved from the point of view of that time. From 1856 the communications of the k.k. Central Commission and the Yearbook of the Imperial-Kingal Central Commission, which today correspond to the "Austrian Journal of Art and Monumental Care" and the "Vienna Yearbook for Art History". ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website They give impressive testimony to the quality of these early Austrian research results. The practical work was then entirely in the hands of the building authorities and the architects, from whose ranks volunteered curators recruited. However, the first state measures for the protection of monuments have already been put in place in the time of Maria Theresias. ==References== April 1745, i.e. 255 years ago, it says – I quote –: No painters, sculptors and architects, whether teachers or academics or not, no stonecute, excavators, lime burners, mason masters, painters or anyone else who is publicly owned may destroy or improve or re-work or re-touch paintings or sculptures without being visited and examined by the Academy. The aim is to ensure that the good works that are worth living are protected from destruction. - Quote. However, other regulations of that time also prove the growing interest in protection, according to Edict of 12. August 1749, which concerned the protection of archivals, or the Court of Justice Regulations of February and November 1776, which regulated the obligation of advertising in the case of finds, in this case primarily of coins, the export of art objects and the safeguarding of inscription stones. So far a brief look at the past from the current occasion, which proves that Austria has been considered a cultural nation in the world for the right time and not only since the last century. But we also know, especially when comparing the teaching for monument care over the years, that it had to be saved. That was not pleasing, but necessary. A three-stage plan of the Federal Monumental Office has set the priorities for this budget commitment. That the saving phase can only be limited in time, everyone who understands something about monument care knows. More money will certainly have to be invested in the protection and care of many historical, artistic or cultural monuments. It cannot be expected that the countries will assume responsibility for the federal government and will automatically provide for the financing of valuable objects. The current problems of monument care, the fight for the unspoiled preservation of the monuments of the past, are basically the same everywhere: The historical substance is threatened by destructive environmental influences. It is often short-term economic interests that lead to annihilation, in particular, of valuable land findings. Wrong search for renewal is another source of danger that does not stop at our national borders. It was therefore important not only to protect cultural heritage through national legislation – that is to say, the Monument Protection Act – but also through international agreements such as the 1954 European Cultural Agreement, the International Hague Convention of the same year or the Convention on the Protection of the Archaeological Heritage adopted in 1969. The ultimate goal of all of us must be to preserve cultural heritage for the future, just as it stands on the medal of merit that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, grant.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7711	Mr Brix spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7735	Mr President. High house! Mrs Lentsch has claimed that in Vienna the kindergartens cost at least 1 200 s. I'll put it right: In fact, the places in the Wiener Kindergartenten, i.e. in the kindergartens of the city of Vienna, cost nothing for a third of the visitors at all, for a third of the visitors they cost between 700 S and 2 500 S, and for a third of the visitors the maximum limit is 2 500 S.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7784	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7827	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to say a few words about culture when the discussion is now over. I would like to bring you back to the present once we have first heard about the monument care. If you look at the budget for the museums, you notice that there are strong imbalances. The disproportionate increase in federal funds for the Art History Museum is striking. This is a very significant increase. However, the federal funds for most other museums stagnate or have been shortened. Once again, it is clear that the promotion of contemporary and alternative art forms has been shortened, i.e. there is simply less money. The consequences are far-reaching. Planned events have to be cancelled, additional purchases can no longer be made or to a very reduced extent. Building measures are also being reversed, and the staff in the museums are very uncertain as regards their own future prospects. Traditional museums are thus provided with sufficient money, contemporary such as the MAK or the Museum of Modern Art are lacking. I think there's no doubt that a museum has an educational function, especially. At the moment, however, it seems to me that it is more about financial success and audience numbers. The next breakdowns are under way. One of the main tasks of this kind is to finance itself. In order to make this possible, the laws of the free market will have to be followed, so it is a market-oriented exhibition and collection policy. What that means, you can imagine: Spectacles and sensations, so-called events, will be asked more than ever. And this shows us the old partyman of the liberals in Carinthia quite well. – Events and then a summary event about the organised events is the idea of culture. But especially in the field of contemporary art, it needs special mediation, and that needs support, and that also costs money. This is slow, as is the case with learning processes, and only very rarely are these so-called events. The concern is whether museums dealing with contemporary and modern art can exist without loss of quality. There is concern whether these museums will be able to work without major programme changes and content restrictions. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, the experts are also of a different opinion and have expressed very strong concerns in this regard. I would like to stress one point: I do not think that it can be assumed – especially not in this area – that audience numbers and quality are identical. You can be that, but in the field of contemporary art and culture this is perhaps rather rare, and that is then limited to so-called modern classics again. I think it's important to show this over and over again. – I am looking for you not only for the past, but also for the present.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7864	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7897	No, that's not how virgins look! – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of today's plenary session, I had to hear the saddest speech of the day. Mr Brosz has managed to pass 20 minutes on today's budget chapter without losing a single word about students, about young people, about requirements for our education system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] He used this forum at the moment of the highest attention, when everyone was still present, to harm the concerns of school, youth and teachers. It is not a concept, it is also true of the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the one hand, he calls for free and free access to universities and on the other hand job guarantees for teachers willing to learn. Those who demand such a thing strengthen the image problem of teachers. Especially those with the best training are supposed to need the strongest professional protection. Yes, please, what picture does this convey to the public? What picture does the public have of our teachers if such a thing is necessary? – You have to remember that today most people already know that we are living in a world in which efficiency and performance belong to our lives. Do not push the teachers into the ungrateful position that you want to artificially guarantee this place in our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Austrians know from our own children that our teachers are violent. We know our kids, and we know they're not always the simplest candidates. How will a mother describe the school? – Personal survey: There are really good teachers, and there are catastrophic teachers. That's the reality. If you want to help the school, don't make them sick, but you have to reform it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Those who want to improve the image of teachers must not put the teachers under a fall in glass. [[Abg. Brosz: Shorten the means!]] In school, it is about fundamental life bases, knowledge and motivation. What's in front of us? – It is about improving the permeability of our education system, improving the efficiency of the preparation of content and improving administrative processes. The reform theme is Teacher Education, i.e. Educational Academies. Teachers of today are also knowledge intermediaries, but first and foremost they must be motivation experts. With regard to Mr Niederweiser's request concerning the introduction of cost contributions, I would like to make a clarification: Cost contributions, study contributions always refer to universities and universities, as we mean. Once the educational academies are colleges, they are treated as such. Schools within the meaning of the school laws remain free of contributions. We consider the transformation of the educational academies into universities to be useful for good reasons. Mr Niederwieser – I ask him to do this – depends on the past, but hopefully he will not want to turn back this project. We will therefore reject his request in this case. Another reform theme is teacher education, because children today are to learn new ways of common knowledge development. Good and motivated teachers in school must also be given greater scope for their own initiatives than others who do not take their tasks so seriously. Now I come to the permanent topic of foreign languages. English has become a second language in today's economy, not a foreign language. Therefore, much remains to be done in this regard. Our teachers do valuable work. We have also entrusted them with the most valuable thing we have, our children. Our teachers bring gifts to development, and our school system helps our children to be well prepared for the future. Thank you to the Federal Minister for further improving our school standard despite the debt we had to accept.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7958	The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7980	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to say to my previous speaker: He probably did not read the Court of Auditors' report, otherwise he knew that the Ministry of Education had been heavily involved in this debt, and that has also been strongly criticised. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That means you're accusing her of too high a budget item?]] Mrs. Minister! I now come to an issue that has not been discussed today. How do you feel as an educational and cultural minister in view of the fact that, in Upper Austria, the establishment of the new music theatre was rejected by a large majority in a popular survey? What has been wrong in educational and cultural work in Austria? What does that mean for the future in Austria's cultural and tourism country? – A courageous and innovative cultural project will be rejected. In my opinion, that does not mean good for the future. [[Abg. Achatz: Is this a reproach for the Upper Austrians?]] - No, it's not. That's what I'm gonna talk about. [[Abg. Achatz: That's so great!]] Mrs. Minister! In other countries, cities are renovating themselves with awe - inspiring cultural projects. [[Abg. Achatz: Take the popular decision!]] I mean, for example, the project in Bilbao, where the Guggenheim Museum has brought an excellent upturn for the entire steel town. – But now I come to the answer. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Mrs. Jäger! Are you questioning democracy?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr President. Would you mind calming down?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8073	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Jäger's wish is understandable. It will hardly be able to prevail if the noise level is so high.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8089	I understand that the people of Upper Austria have rejected this music theatre project because for months, with the use of more than 80 million schilling, this German government has been explaining to the Austrians how much we owe and that we have absolutely no money. [[Abg. Achatz: The Chambers of Workers, the Trade Unions!]] This campaign has actually taken hold, and the Upper Austrians have said that if they take us so deeply into the wallets, we are not willing to agree to this cultural project either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, this is a rejection of your government policy and a rejection of these massive interventions for the people of that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Then your request from Friday was hypocrisy?]] Mrs. Brinek! I think we all have to work much more massively in this area and do much more public work. I don't want to go out there at all. [[Abg. Young: Just keep going...!]] What I do not understand is that in voting here in the House Mr Klubobmann Khol has forced poor colleagues from the ÖVP to vote against this music theatre, although this is not in the Coalition Agreement. Why did you let down the poor Mr. Landes Captain like that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Again back to Linz: Linz is a modern industrial city, has a reputation as a modern cultural city, is forward-looking and has prestige. We know that many companies choose their locations according to whether there is also an opportunity for the managers, for the people employed there, to actively participate in the cultural life. That's why this project is so harmful. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: such nonsense as you say!]] The Freedom Party abuses people in a cultural struggle for its anti-cultural purposes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] With a million advertising in the diction of the 1930s, "Small man pays big opera" – that's from Hans Fallada – you wanted to inform people that people have no culture. [[Abg. Achatz: Not now!]] People have culture, but they are not ready to save, in times when it is generally said, for cultural projects, although it is proven that citizenship is using these cultural projects to spend money and to support it. Mrs. Minister! But what does that mean for the Kunsthaus in Graz? - That's next. Mrs. Riess-Passer has already announced that several things can be asked. What does that mean for the Kunsthaus Graz? What does that mean for projects in Salzburg? What does this mean for the future, if your coalition partner lets you vote on one project after another in the field of culture? I think we need an honest discussion in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You're a democracy muffle!]] We have agreed, and we accept the opinion of the people. [[Abg. Huber: Listen!]] Of course, you have to go different ways now. We have also agreed that, if a People's Survey is conducted, we must take note of it, of course. [[Abg. Achatz: That was a decision of the people! Take note of this!]] Last point: Mrs. Minister! What about students from developing countries? – We have been told that you could, by way of instructions from the Higher Education Tax Act, achieve that the people from the priority countries studying in Austria – in the field of development cooperation, they have always been taken into account – get back these higher education taxes. In my opinion, the implementation is impracticable. I would therefore ask you to comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8287	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Saviour. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8333	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The science budget we have today is very good. It is a science budget that enables and ensures investments in the field of universities, which guarantees that science and teaching will find a good outcome in the future. In the end, this was also demonstrated by the discussion in the Committee on Budgets, because there was hardly any criticism from the SPÖ, from the scientific speaker of the SPÖ – except for the not pleasant but just necessary study contributions. I should like to congratulate you, Mrs Minister, but also the chairman of the Scientific Committee, my colleague Dr Graf, on this. With this budget you have succeeded in ensuring the proper operation of the universities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, the Socialist Group is hardly open to the public, but this subject matter is no longer possible. Hardly are you in public, be it in plenary, be it anywhere in public life, scandalize, make you afraid to stir up by spreading falsehoods. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Binder: Does that not seem familiar to you?]] Yeah, I'll give you some examples. I can tell you how you wake up, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. I went to a fax. Sender of this fax is the ÖGB. That's what it says: Action - Listen [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Hannes Bauer]] Please! – ‘Action ‘Co-leading’ of the Deputies to the National Council of Rüdiger Schender (FPÖ) in the 48. Calendar week and action people's chain around Parliament on 5.12.2000". That's where the trade unions send faxes to their sub-organisations. And what's in there? There is, on the one hand, the responsibility of the union and, on the other, the responsibility of the districts. This fax says that the districts should send me faxes and e-mails. I want you to fax and mail preprinted text suggestions. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a problem for the people in the private sector. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] [[Abg. Edler: Incredible!]] But it's going on, Mr. Edler. It's gonna be much more incredible. It goes on to say: "2. Motivation of officials to participate in the human chain around Parliament". It is said that the districts are to take a minimum number of people with them, there are buses that lead people to the parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Nobody else is coming!]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] With buses, you are driving your members from all over Austria to hinder a democratically elected parliament in order to prevent a democratically elected parliament from attending a conference.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8443	I call Mr Schender. Please give him the opportunity to make his statements!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8458	Thank you, Mr President. I understand the nervousness of the red trade unionists, because it's getting even thicker. This has begun with the blockade of this speaker's vote by Mr Haidlmayr, which represents an incredible and unique act in the history of parliamentarianism. It is now continuing with Parliament's attempt to block the human chain. But that is not all, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Then it continues – be careful, it's incredible what's coming now, that's getting worse and worse – "3. Since the NR member Rüdiger Schender lives in Puchenau, the districts Linz and Linz Land/Urfahr Umgebung are asked for the following additional action: Setting up at least two A-stands for at least two days in front of the House of Deputies." [[Deputies Dr. Khol and Ing. Westenthaler: This is immense!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Terror is that! That's incredible!]] "Set up at least two A-stands for at least two days in front of the church or in an appropriate public place." [[Abg. Haigermoser: To the pranger you want to put the delegates!]] "Sandwichmen" should also, as far as possible, open up and off the house of Mr. Schender's... [[Abg. Riepl: She doesn't know anyone else anyway!]] Look, Mr President, I am well aware of myself in my area, as opposed to other colleagues from your group. "Sandwichmen" are supposed to go up and down in front of my house. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an incredible mental disability, which is an incredible derailment. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Then there is – and this is probably the summit of naughtiness –: [[Call the ÖVP:Terror!]] "Three action teams to accompany public appearances by NR Schender". That's top line! That's family-disability! I would be interested in what the socialist trade unionists say about it. Mr Nürnberger, because I see you standing like this with a sleepy face, come down, apologise and distance yourself from these measures! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Nürnberger! The ÖGB is not a forward-looking political office of the Socialist Party. The ÖGB would be called upon to perceive the interests of workers. [[Abg. Dr. Hannes Bauer: You wrote it yourself!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! They're making fun of it. ÖGB-Faxgeräte, it's even the address of the ÖGB with the phone number on it. [[Abg. Edler: Can we have that?]] Of course you can have that. And then I would ask you for a removal and a withdrawal from this mental disability, because this poster is already in front of my house. And do you know what's on that poster? – I vote in the National Council on 5 May. December for the non-social tax package, for tuition fees. Signed: Rüdiger Schender, National Council. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is unbearable! This is signature forgery! That's how down the union union has fallen!]] And by the way, it says: If you would like to share your opinion on my unsocial behaviour... Then you'll find my private fax number, my e-mail address and so on. It has never been in this Republic that Austrian trade unions are opening up to operate against freely elected, democratically elected representative family terrorism! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But you were even too cowardly to write "ÖGB" to it. That's just by the way. I ask you: What's next? - I don't want to know. What you are doing here is not the representation of workers' interests, that is not the information of your members, but you make people bad and branded freely elected, not generally and not on the basis of the political line of a party, but in the closest personal environment of Members. [[continuing calls – Abg. Dietachmayr holds a table with the inscription "Deeper isn't going!" in height]] This is Mobbing! It's political mobbing the worst class of goodness! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, socialist trade unionists! What you're doing here is a humane, organized polity-mobbing worst variety. This is a democratic decline in the 1930s. This is a irrational, evilst hatred of freely elected political mandates. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, the quote of a prominent football player, who yesterday brought Mr Haigermoser on your strategy, is: If we can't win, at least we'll tear them down. Just you, ladies and gentlemen, you're no longer trampling on the lawn, you're trampling on the freely elected mandaters. trample in the most personal environment in front of the door You're breaking the lawn and trying to defamate and make bad, and that's last-class, colleague Edler. [[Abg. Edler: Who?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This must have been learned by Gusenbauer in Moscow!]] But let me just say, People are outraged by your incredible envelopes – I have already received numerous calls – and they are outraged by your inhuman, humane envelopes. They understand the need for the restructuring course of this federal government, they understand the reform policy. We freely elected Members will not let ourselves be stopped by your family terror and by your mumbling, by your political mobbing on our way, this republic you have for 30 years – 30 years! – have led to the edge of the ruin to bring this country back into a proper state. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I expect from the top-ranking officials of the ÖGB, who are sitting here in the House, a clear distance from this human being, I expect you to be personally excused, because this is against people, these are personal attacks – this will probably not only affect me, but most of my colleagues here in this house. That's why I expect you to have a clear distance.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8677	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I give Mrs Petrovic the floor to an actual correction, I would like to draw your attention very briefly to the fact that the last quarter of the debate was fully committed to crossing the borders in terms of expression, so that it is not only worthy of this House, but that I fear that there can be more. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: These are Nazi methods from the SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Mr Petrovic: Mr President! Please log "Nazi methods"!]] We are hard at the border, and I ask all subsequent speakers to consider exactly what expression they choose. I believe that everything is done to really use a sound that is appropriate to the thing, but also the dignity of the house. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Nuremberger is silent!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8737	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My predecessor has, among other things, made the claim that the participation or invitation to participate in the events of the previous speaker by political dissidents is a form of excellence. This is incorrect: Participation in controversial political events is a fundamental component of democracy, which you have missed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8772	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8794	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! . I am not saying anything about this, but I would like to return to the cultural debate with a little more level, which should actually concern us here – with a little level because I believe that voting results of the House can be made public. [[Abg. Achatz: What do you say about this immense process?]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should already say a sentence about this!]] Everyone has the right to know how the mandates are voting here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just a sentence you should say about it! I'm sure you're not for it!]] But now to the culture: Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Especially visible in the budget for the museums is – my colleague Muttonen has already responded – that the Art History Museum has received a tremendous increase in resources. That is quite positive, it is at least an increase by a very large amount, namely from 189 to 280 million schilling. But in this context, it seems to me to be remarkable – and I would particularly like to address this – that in the future one is thinking of a merger and structural change in the Federal Museums and is planning to merge the Theater Museum and the Museum of People's History into a business area. However, I mean – and would like to do so – that the Austrian Theatre Museum is quite capable and should have the right to continue standing on its own feet. Let's take a look at the history of this important theatre museum – Vienna is a theatre city: The forerunners have been there since 1976, only in 1991 was the ransom of the Oesterreichische Nationalbibliothek. Most of the collection of the theatre museum has only been in independent administration since that time. The books have remained in the area of the National Library, but they are managed by the Theatermuseum. It is important for me to note that in February 2000, for the first time, a separate exhibition of the exhibition collection of the Theatermuseum took place. This is also the real beginning of this independence for me. And I wonder why, after such a short period of time – one could not actually collect any relevant experience yet, and no cost accounting has yet been presented, and not how this should be done in the future – plans to merge in the field of tasks. You, Mrs. Minister, compare – and unfortunately I must tell you – in your reply to a request from Dr. Cap the Theater Museum with the Kunsthistorisches Museum, i.e. apples with pears, because the Theater Museum is partially entitled, while the Art History is fully legal, which means that all revenue is also flowing into its own area, while the revenue from admission fees of the Theatermuseum is still to be transferred to the Federation. In this context, however, it seems to me to be remarkable that according to the museum's rules, it is planned to transfer the managing director to the three directors of the collective museums. And I wonder if there may perhaps be a conflict of interest if the director of the Kunsthistorisches Museum is to be at the same time the managing director of three sub-areas, namely art history, theatre museum and folklore museum. Should we not think about whether this does not lose the independence of these three important areas in the sense? And should you not also ask whether such an important post should not also be issued? Another point of discussion for me is that it will be very difficult in this context to do my own scientific work in the future. And that, I think, is an essential fact, especially for the ability to live and work independently, because the basis of the many special exhibitions – and this must be noted – are still functioning, independent museums. That's why I'm looking for you and I'm appealing to you: A theatre city like Vienna is supposed to retain its own theatre museum. I would ask you to consider this procedure that you are currently planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8864	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8885	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Pittermann has tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Minister for Education to initiate priority research programmes relating to BSE and Creutzfeldt-Jakob. – Mrs Pittermann! This motion for a resolution is no longer necessary because the government has already put in place all the necessary measures. We do not need to agree to this today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The few minutes still available to me, I would like to use a subject that has been of concern to me for a very long time, namely our public broadcasting and television station. I would like to make three comments, two positive and one negative. I start with the positive: I would like to praise the programme managers for the fact that Austria 1 provides such a good quality offer, an offer at a very high level, which is extremely interestingly prepared, in which current shipments are offered. I really congratulate the responsible person and would like to ask them to maintain this high level and these high standards. I only have a small wish regarding the technical area: Austria 1 is very difficult to receive in some regions, even along the South motorway, although this area is normally very well supplied. Perhaps the ORF, even if Austria 1 does not pay advertising fees, can also invest in the technology in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, we lack a similar quality offer in television. Our two television channels are permanently licensed down, and the sad low point is the currently running and probably finally ending show "Taxi Orange". [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What kind of problem do you have?]] This programme, which young people see as a target group, is currently blocking the best broadcasting sites. Quality shipments are currently being pushed into the night by this shipment. [[New condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Very many fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, complain bitterly that this weak and levelless programme will be sent at the main end-times. Ernst Wolfram Marboe, a recognized media specialist, calls this show a total manipulation. Werner Schneyder, in a note on this show, says it's "Waste and Tratsch". Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, our citizens have the opportunity to turn off the television, but this is also the only way to protest against the programmers in the ORF. Experts see with great concern that outcasting and exclusion or superficial popularity assessment are the main topics of this mission. But a democracy lives on tolerance, and that is why all responsible areas should maintain such values very high. The ORF is currently making the opposite: The ORF relies on banality, voyeurism, exclusion, just to win a young audience as a seer. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is particularly worrying for me that huge funds have been spent for the betrailing of this mission. There has been a great deal of investment to draw attention to this weak programme and finally to the use of power to the extent of those of the private stations. There is a second similar show in the evening, namely the "Expedition Robinson". Many consumers really hang out these shipments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] – I am very glad that not only do I see it that way. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Young people would urgently need life models, young people are looking for solutions and are therefore vulnerable to such programmes, but with this media waste we do not bring young people to the desired results. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, this programme – as well as other broadcasts – offers a kind of advertising that is prohibited in itself in Austria. I don't know how to justify this procedure with the withdrawn ORF fees and how far to get this fee...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8938	Deputies! I only draw your attention – the clock obviously does not work completely – that you have already exceeded the scheduled speaking time by one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8953	Ladies and gentlemen! If this nonsense is already to be sent, then at least to the same extent should also be brought valuable transmitting material that really brings people something. My only hope is the new ORF law, which will define the public service contract more clearly and more clearly in future, and will also ensure that the ORF fulfils its legislative mandate accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8983	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. On a given occasion, I would like to inform you: An actual correction should begin with the re-examination of the claim to be corrected and then counter-appropriate this claim to the corrected facts. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9016	Mr President. Ladies Federal Ministers! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor, in his contribution to the debate, took the view that the Federal Government had adopted all the necessary measures in relation to BSE. [[Call to the Freeman:Since when can one correct one's view?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: opinions can be represented as you want!]] - That's wrong! Rather, it is true that this federal government does not – none! [[Abg. Böhacker: This is not an actual correction!]] . has adopted appropriate measures, measures necessary. It is true, rather, that the Federal Minister other than Sickl and the Minister of Agriculture Molterer are in a secret letter dated 18 May. In July 2000, Austria tried to reach an exemption for the removal of risk materials. That's a scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9078	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9099	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since Mr Kampichler has devoted a good part of his valuable speaking time to the "Taxi Orange" programme, as an example – as he has said – for banality, voyeurism and exclusion, I would not like to leave this in the room so irrefutable. You can stand on this show, as you want, you can call it banal – then you have to call many of the ORF's broadcasts banal – you can call them voyeuristic – then sometimes you can't turn up the TV at all – but you certainly can't say one thing: it's outlawed. This mission has done more with regard to the exclusion of homosexuals, with regard to the presentation of homosexuals than any well-intentioned decision-making programme – which has been well meant in the rarest cases – which we have discussed here. That's what you said! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Kampichler! I agree with you: In such a programme, there is no need to search for interrupting advertising just as much as in another program of the ORF. But I would like to ask you that you also have the consequence of calling the other programmes of the ORF, in which unfortunately there is a breakage advertising. You are right: It's supposed to get out of the ORF, people pay fees, because there's a breaker's advertising, I think I'm really not looking for anything. But please, if you're dealing with "Taxi Orange", be more careful or try to take into account the reactions of young people in relation to those points that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9139	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9160	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Some comments on the Advisory Group VI, including some concern. I have now been in a political mandate for 31 years, I have been politically active in my home community for 14 years, I have struggled there with sincere social democrats, worked together as it is so common in a democratic community, and I would like to highlight briefly the events that Mr Schender has brought to us, and the arguments put forward in this discussion, from my point of view. Not too long ago, in our shop, the windows were bonded with anti-FPÖ-paraols. I did not attach any importance to this, we removed it. I mean, Well, that's a stupid boy's stroke or whatever you call it. But after this speech by my colleague, Mr Schender, I now come to the conviction that the whole system has, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the whole system has, especially as you do not stop in front of the families of the affected, ladies and gentlemen. The disgrace of your behavior is that you break out in dengues when a young person, a young parliamentarian feels affected and stands in front of his home and his family. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Colleague Dietachmayr has quickly pulled out a prepared Taferl with the inscription: "Deeper doesn't work!" To this end, I would like to say: You should turn that around, Mr Cot, not stop us, but keep the mirror in front of you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You defend!]] From the limitation of the exercise of the free mandate to the mouth-to-mouth, it is only a small step. Unfortunately, we have had to get to know this in a sad story of God, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You want to kill others!]] I'll call you: Be the beginnings, ladies and gentlemen! We do not need a blockkeeper system, but we need freedom of expression in this Republic! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: That's incredible! That's terrible!]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You want to kill your mouth!]] What's the increase? – Demonstrate where you want! The right of demonstration is one of the highest rights of a functioning democracy, ladies and gentlemen. But you also have to choose the places. Demonstrate in front of Parliament or in front of the party headquarters. [[Abg. Oillinger: On the cemetery, with the comradeship IV!]] – You are there, too, in the cemeterys, and you are walking on the graves of deceased people, Mr. Cot. Respect for the deceased is also a high right of a functioning society, wherever they, no matter why they had to experience the cool grave, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Old Nazis demonstrate at the cemetery!]] What is the increase in the branding of this free mandate? Do you want to reintroduce the political maria-theresian estuary into the mouthbird, the espionage, the pranger, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Torture!]] I'll answer you with Voltaire: "I do not agree with any of your words, but I will fight until the end of my days for you to pronounce them." [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What is this?- Oh, my God!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, this is the answer! Come with arguments and we will find ourselves in the field of this debate! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: See Haider, Böhmdorfer! Law enforcement!]] [[Abg. Brosz: In your calls, you will still come with Voltaire! I'm sorry!]] Finally, a quote from Norbert Reader's book "... in half ways and half-deed..." This is part of the cultural debate. Or do you want to prevent the distribution of books now? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Unbearable!]] Quote: "The sharpest thing Paul Blau, the former editor-in-chief of the 'Worker Newspaper', has characterized the development of the party, namely yours, "to their centennial anniversary: ‘The heritage wasted, the future wasted.’ Of all this, the ‘Oberschluderer’ Heinz Fischer knows nothing or does not even want to know and to know. Apart from small retuses, he finds everything good all around as long as he can lead a comfortable life as the top of the political class. It does not seem to bother him that this ceiling of social democracy is becoming thinner and more sluggish in order to cover it up and cover his blush." – End of the quote. You should read this book to the end!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9377	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9399	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I hope the Minister for Education is still here to address a brief question to her. But before I do, I have to say a word to my previous speaker. Mr Haigermoser, it is very nice that you are defending freedom of expression here, but freedom of expression also means to you that a FPÖ politician can say unpunishedly: "Our honor is called fidelity", an old SS proverb. It can't be! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] I have a specific question to the Minister for Education Gehrer. A question was raised by Mrs Jäger earlier, and I would very much ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to comment on this matter. This is about the study fees for students from developing countries. In the original Federal Estimate, in the original budget, it has been said that students from developing countries will be exempt from the study fees. In the meantime, it seems that the Higher Education Tax Act states that you, Mrs. Minister, are entitled to adopt a regulation in line with the priorities of Austrian development cooperation and with the reform countries a number of countries whose students can be reimbursed the contribution. In the Committee on Budgets, I asked the Foreign Minister what she was doing. She said she was going to speak to you about this. I have not heard of any change so far, and that gives me the chance to think. Should you really plan, for students from the poorest countries in the world who are often unable to study in their own countries, contrary to the principles of Austrian development cooperation, which are both about poverty reduction and education promotion, to no longer allow them to come to Austria and study here with us? What about the refund? How is it that a person who cannot apply this study fee must first pay the 5 000 S per semester and then get it back? It is not even clear which countries are meant to be. In my view, this is not a meaningful development cooperation. I would therefore ask you to give us an answer whether you are planning to change this, namely that students from developing countries will not have to pay any tuition fees from the outset. – Thank you for the answer in advance.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9454	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9475	Mr President. My dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been here in Parliament for a long time, and I know that I am not going to get out of the way of hard discussions with words here, but I am very happy to lead them. [[Abg. Oils: You can see that!]] But here in Parliament the hard discussion is to take place when it comes to political differences. As far as Mr Schender has informed us here and today about this, Mr Sevignani in Tyrol, Mr Gaugg in Carinthia and also some of Vienna's colleagues have already been put into reality. Mr. Trade Union President! This is a procedure which, as I know, cannot be carried by you personally – as well as I know you – because it is a style that has nothing to do in a democratic republic like Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Accompanying a private person by officials of the ÖGB to point out his behaviour here, this has nothing to do with democratic behaviour! All that Mr Schender has said here, what happens to actionism around his person to his privacy, has nothing to do with democratic behavior. And there is obviously a very targeted preparation behind this behavior, which is not only supported by political parties here in the House, but also initiated. I'm all the more convinced of that than I'm now getting new information, which is the 5. December. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Trade Union President! Here it is called again that this 5. December, the day of the vote on the budget, the "budget of cruelty", would be a beautiful, appropriate day for courses, and, I quote, a tour around Parliament should in no way be missed. It could be that the students are at the level of the ÖGB for the 5th. In December, prepared human chains could participate if they were to take a reasonable course on the day of the 5th. December. – Friendly greetings: Austrian Trade Union Confederation. - Quote. On this leaflet, brought to the people, my dear ladies and gentlemen, from the union union, stands – I quote –: [[The speaker shall keep a leaflet up to date]] [[Call to the Freeman – towards the Abg. Obsessive –:Kids abuse you]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And the One laughs!]] We leave 5th. ==References====External links== With a human chain around Parliament, we demonstrate against the budget decision of 6. December. - Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Transport blockages throughout Austria plan the same day the platform "Checkpoint Austria". A connection with the protest measures of trade union and "Checkpoint Austria" does not exist, the trade union tries to add. It may be that the Trade Union Confederation is not involved when "Checkpoint Austria" will try to paralyze Austria on next Tuesday. Under the motto "And to Krampus Austria is still in the morning!" "Checkpoint Austria" wants to paralyze professional traffic at around 15 neural points throughout Austria. [[Abg. Oils: Please go!]] This is the will of Checkpoint Austria. And there is no connection between such activities, even if you listen to them, which will once again move politics to the streets, and the political parties represented here. Mr Klubobmann of the Greens, Professor Van der Bellen! Please come out here and explain how it is possible that this action will do what it wants on Monday, the 13. November 2000, in a press conference in Parliament, in the Green Club, Schmerlingplatz-Mitte entrance, at 10 a.m. What does the Lahmlege of Austria have to do with the Green Club?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9581	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9611	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I agree that we have no influence on whether people continue to demonstrate against this federal government. But I personally have great understanding of this. If I were unemployed and I knew how deeply I would be caught in my pocket, I would be in studies or training and I would feel the touch of the Minister of Finance in the pockets that are not particularly well filled in this case – and the same applies to accident pensioners and single mothers and, and, – I would certainly have more understanding of that. Well, you believe that the hundreds of thousands of people who are concerned will now get up and say: applause of the black and blue Federal Government! We pay voluntarily, please grab more deeply in our pockets, please save foundations and get into the pockets of those with small incomes really discreet!Unknown term type: "%s".? They provoke the resistance, they provoke displeasure. With your budget plans, they call on people to do something about it in their own interest. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But because Austria is a quiet, very orderly country, there are people who register demonstrations. And then what happens? – Demonstrations are registered, and speakers from the liberals come to the pult here and try to criminalise duly registered and prepared demonstrations. They are thus attacking one of the fundamental rights of democracy, namely the right of assembly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The freedom of assembly, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean that only if a number of tractors follow the liberal old partyman. This is not the only way to be able to hold legal meetings in this Republic! And remember: Trade unionists, even non-tractor owners, can make use of assembly law! – A representative of the agricultural sector has now put this down a little bit. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Now he's getting better, Mr. Schwarzenberger!]] Welcome to the debate, Mr Schwarzenberger! There is also the right of demonstration in Austria to tractless people, and they will not be allowed to accept it! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Second: I note that there are free Members who fear triangles. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Yeah, why not? There is also the right to fear triangle stands. If, in the early morning, Member of the Saviour leaves his house or his home – I have not yet looked at EKIS, how and where you have been reported – and sees a triangle stand and is afraid, he has the right to tell us about it. - I just don't know how we can help him. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The horror of the liberals seems to me to be justified. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It's not going deeper, Mr. Pilz, is it?]] When Member of Parliament wakes up in the early days, he does not yet know why a official or a member of his party will find trouble again on that day: Will it be a tax evasion at an early stage, a "normal" fraud, a tickling ring, a chicken brewery or anything else? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: A handful!]] I do not want to be a liberal official right now. I want to wake up in the early morning – and I am used to it with the Greens – and I know that there will be no nuisance on this day on my colleagues. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Some Members of the Liberals stand with the first bank series of their political groups and talk to each other.]] Mr. Schender! Yeah, that's a nice feeling. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I look forward to every day when it's always about free-lance peaks, free tax evasions, free contacts with cemeterys, free-standing video-suppliers in the upper guard and, and, and goes. [[Ironic cheerfulness and call of the coffin. May. Schweitzer.]] I have mentioned the example of Oberwart and come to ORF because we are discussing education and culture. [[At this point, Abg. Dr. Petrovic to the protocol's leading staff member of the Parliamentary Directorate with the request for an interim call from the Abg. May. Schweitzer, who said, "You're a fool!==References====External links==]] [[On the side of the log management, as a result of the unrest in the hall, a loud laugh of the Abg was made. May. Sweitzer, but no concrete call for let me know.]] I understand, in particular, Mr Schweitzer, who wants to address the triangular threat scandal scandal here, because he has reason to divert from something else, namely his personal involvement in the whole of the top ladder. I remember the following: An official of the Federal Ministry of the Interior has said – and I personally confirmed this – that an editor of the "Kronen Zeitung", a free employee of the "Kronen Zeitung" called Horvath, to which Mr Schweitzer has handed over Oberwart's crime scene video, is an illegal video. [[Oh, by the greens.]] Parliamentary Schweitzer has handed over this crime scene video to an ORF editor named Bernd Ender. [[New call to the greens.]] The attempt should have been as follows: There was a certain political interest that is not so clear that the Oberwart attack had a clearly right-wing radical and racist background, and the video should obviously serve to set other traces and bring other perpetrator hypotheses to the people. And I wonder, When will this be examined? When will this be clarified? And: What are the consequences? The only thing I know is that the information I have given to the economic police today also makes investigations in this area. And we want to know very well how, with the help of a liberal representative in the Burgenland, an attempt was made to mislead the ORF with all-encompassed material politically.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9780	I don't think that's a measure that could help here. It is appropriate not to hold any permanent conferences while a speaker is speaking here. I would therefore ask you to take this into account. Mr Pilz, please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9801	Thank you, Mr President. – However, I understand the current need for coordination in the Freedom Party. Only technically there is the possibility to do this a few meters further behind. But I understand it's pushing. Let's talk about the political background: Was it not Parliamentary Schweitzer who at the time publicly protected the personally connected cemeterys of Eisenstadt? Is there not a clear political background? And I wonder – from the cemetery damage in Eisenstadt to the attack in Oberwart and the attempt to re-interpret politically – what happened there. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will not be able to clarify this in the context of a discussion on Austrian education policy. However, we will, of course, make a new request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Let me make a little comment on this: After the letter from Binder to the Freedom Party, whether right or wrong, points out that there would be something worthy of investigation, I am finally waiting for your consent to the setting up of this Investigation Committee. I would also like to extend the warm invitation to you today. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] One last aspect is education policy and the starting point of this debate, which we have held in the last hour. – Mrs Federal Minister, it should at least be clear to you what your public break in the universities has caused. It wasn't the students who said: Well, now the winter semester begins, now we have to go to the street!, but it was the students who still do not know exactly why the Minister of Education – which was in the name of universities and students to prevent tuition fees – changed her opinion completely on a weekend and after a long discussion with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is false! She explained it today, but you never take part in meetings!]] This broken word, Mrs. Gehrer, was the beginning of a completely different mood at the Austrian universities! The students – and I am referring to the budget – can count at least as well as the Minister of Finance, and they know that the current Federal Government wants to make decisions, even in this legislative period, that interceptors are bought by an amount equal to at least 12 annual revenue from the title "student fees". For twelve years Austrian students will pay – without any consideration! – so that the government can buy interceptors! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You were the first to scream!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! That is a question of setting priorities, and that is the question you have to answer! Why are you, as a minister, too weak to impose a real increase in expenditure on education, research and development, and why do you have to vote if the money we would urgently need for education and research and development in the military is wasted? Mrs. Federal Minister! You should also answer this question to students in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9875	Mrs Fekter spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9897	Mr President. High house! There has been a very strange process, while Mr Pilz has spoken here: Mrs Petrovic has been on the record and has obviously been a bit accused of this. I think this is an immense influence on the management of the protocol. I would ask the President of the Council to update the protocol in order to ensure that independent log management is not at risk by such instructions to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9930	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has spoken on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9951	Mr President. I have been to you during this sitting, because I think some of the clearly acceptable calls for call would suggest an immediate reaction to you. Among other things, it was the speech of "Stalin-Methods", it was the speech of "Nazi-Methods" – and it was during the speech of Mr Pilz, clearly acceptable, on the part of Mr Schweitzer the call "You are a Depp!" to hear. I am very surprised, Mrs Fekter, that you are using such methods. But after yesterday's day it may no longer surprise me, if the request of a party is rejected, a party that in this request the "lump!" President. - The debate is closed. Mr President. I urge you to interrupt the session so that we can clarify it on the spot now, ad hocly.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9997	We will talk about this incident in the next presidential term, and I will also request the minutes on this matter or have a discussion with the minutes leader on it. Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10036	Mr President. Mrs Bundesministerins! Member of the Pilz has once again – and he has done so very often lately – claimed something that has nothing to do with the truth, and he has claimed that I would have gotten a crime scene video from Oberwart in an illegal way. The fact and truth is, Mr Pilz, that this video was filmed by a journalist and he made it available to me! – But you could have read that in the "NEWS" four years ago, colleague Pilz. And this article also contains the name of this journalist.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10080	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10107	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I would now like to do something that I probably do not accept or expect: I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will. Schweitzer expressly thank – and give him a right – for a passage in his speech from before, as he made it clear in this that the activities related to the 5. December – these run under the name "Checkpoint Austria" – have nothing to do with the ÖGB. I would like to confirm this and thank you, Mr Schweitzer, for this clarification. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also important to note that this federal government, with its measures, has animated many people in our country at protests. This government promotes conflict democracy, leaves consensus democracy – and unfortunately also in education policy! Ladies and gentlemen! Education also includes the field of "political education". A tool for "political education" is the Internet. The Internet also gives us the opportunity to experience our discussion live here and to get information – whoever wants it – such as where a Member can be reached or what a Member is working for and what he is voting for. Ladies and gentlemen! This government wants to inform us that most of the population is not affected by the measures, especially in the field of education. – In the meantime, however, many really know that what you say about the government parties is not correct and therefore information, political information is necessary. I believe that democracy must also be able to live on the streets, must also be allowed there, but of course it is clear that a Member's privacy must be safeguarded. And there's no problem, I mean, either. And: Of course, this is also ensured in the actions of the ÖGB, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The ÖGB will therefore continue to inform workers in detail about the attitude and voting behaviour of all Members in the future, and I believe that this is a clear position and a clear answer also to the discussion contribution and to the concern expressed by Mr Schender. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this so difficult that you distance yourself from it? With you, it should be that you distance yourself from such actions! You could do that!]] We will support all those in the ÖGB who are seeking to identify and inform you of what you, Mr Westenthaler, or others in this House are doing by all parties and how you behave in voting. If that's not right for you, you'll have to deal with it yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 15.0 1
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10169	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall take the vote before the short debate is held in order to be able to conclude the chapter. We are therefore voting on the Advisory Group VI of the Federal Proposal for 2001. This includes chapters 12 and 14 of the Federal Proposal in 310 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group VI of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, if there is no objection, we shall come to the vote immediately. – There is no objection. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Antoni and Mr Comrades on the removal from the introduction of cost contributions in post-secondary education institutions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pittermann and others on the promotion of research efforts to protect and protect consumers in connection with the dangerous spread of Creutzfeldt-Jakob diseases or BSE. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. Short debate on the response to the question 1202/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10249	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs with the order number 1202/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Lunacek.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10270	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You have the floor. The speaking time is up to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10295	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We are talking about a question and her reply by the Foreign Minister. [[Lively calls and calls between representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Thank you. – This was about their speech on the occasion of the foreign cultural conference at the end of August. [[Further ongoing calls and calls between representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: She said the rag party over there!]] [[Call to the liberals: Did she say that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's where you should see the protocol! These are methods!]] I would now be very pleased if the honourable Members guided their attention towards the panel and did not discuss it further. My time here is limited. Good. [[Further calls and restlessness in the hall.]] Mrs. Minister! In your speech at the foreign cultural conference in front of the Austrian cultural attachés and ambassadors, you criticized the German Foreign Minister and meant that he had spoken about the special historical experiences of Austria and Germany and that he wanted to make both states equally responsible for National Socialism. You have said that this attitude is simply wrong, and you have also said that the historical experience of Austria is essentially different from that of Germany, for Austria is on the 13th. ==References====External links== For the state of Austria this is true – we have discussed this in the last few days – but to the question of whether the historical understanding of Austria will be changed and whether the statement of Vranitzky, in which he received Austria's condolences, should be changed, you only answered with No and quoted the preamble of the government declaration, which says: "Our country accepts the bright and dark sides of its past and the deeds of all Austrians, good and evil, as its responsibility." Mrs. Minister! This answer is only half a point for me, because you are not going into the second part of the truth, and that is why this position you present here is a distortion. They speak of the Austrian state, which has been occupied by the Nazis and which as a state no longer existed – that is true, that is constitutionally correct, that is true historically – but at the same time they imply that the Austrians are also meant to be Austrians and that it means that they were only victims. I find it interesting that this attitude is returning in the last weeks and months of the past, to the extent that we have not heard it from ÖVP politicians in the last few years of my memory. In his interview with the "Jerusalem Post", the former Foreign Minister and current German Chancellor Schüssel had a similar view. In fact, both you, Mrs Foreign Minister and Mr Bundeskanzler, and it seems to me that Austria and the Austrians should be thrown into the same pot by saying: That's all the same! The state of Austria no longer existed after March 1938, it was the victim, and the Austrians had nothing to do with it! This second part, the role and responsibility of the Austrians, is very vague and not as clear as it should be. It should be clear that Austrians have participated in the crimes of the National Socialist regime very well and to a much greater extent than it was clear in 1945. It is not a question of you as a foreign minister and that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is also carrying out historiography here. I'm really wondering: Where does that come from? Why Make Is that what you're doing now? Again and again, as a reason for this victim theory, which equates the state with the citizens – you, too, have recently done so – the Moscow Declaration of 1943 has been called. I don't think you've read the Moscow Declaration completely. It is very likely that Austrians were also involved. But in the post-war period, this Moscow declaration became something like a reason for the fact that the victim theory is true and that it is intended to give a general resolution to the state of Austria, but also to the majority of the citizens. If you quote the Moscow Declaration, you have to quote it completely, then you also have to go into this second part. In the same way, I would have expected you to say clearly at the foreign cultural conference that a large number of Austrians were guilty, co-responsible for the Nazi crimes, that you are not just saying: This is quite different from in Germany, Austria was a victim. - That's too little, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jäger.]] This victim theory is also implied by the fact that you are always talking about the fact that others are guilty: The Germans are guilty, the NS leaders are guilty. It really seems to me that you too, Mrs Foreign Minister, are leaning on something that was recorded in 1945 in a memorandum of the Austrian State Chancellery for Foreign Affairs. The following is to be read in it – I quote –: The persecution of the Jews took place during the time of the occupation of Austria by German troops. The persecutions were ordered by the German authorities and carried out with their help. - Quote. Mrs. Minister! This was the State Chancellor for Foreign Affairs in 1945. I had actually thought that in the year 2000, we were no longer looking at history like this, but we saw it very well, and you also said it quite clearly and clearly that Austrians were involved and that Austria also bears a co-responsible in the questions of the restitution et cetera. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jäger.]] What you are doing is agreeing to this co-responsibility through this implicit omission, and that, Mrs Minister, brings me to the question why this is happening right now. In September or at the end of August it was you, now in November it is Mr. Federal Chancellor, who, in his statement two days ago here in the National Council, said something quite different, somewhat different than the former German Chancellor Vrannitzky in his famous speech. Federal Chancellor Schüssel said that Austria or we had no legal or legal responsibility, that was a purely moral obligation. Mrs. Minister! This is a step backwards in view of what Vrannitzky said, which was very likely to speak of a moral and legal obligation. I expect you to name this legal obligation very well and not to pretend that Austria would not have it. Just to add why this is happening right now. That is supposed to be kitt for the coalition with the liberals, which is supposed to be kitt for a coalition, in which the breaks become quite visible, in which it becomes visible that in some points – perhaps in the economic field – you agree very well that there are other details here, however, where this coalition is already very powerful in the bale. What you do with these formulations and with this negation of the responsibility and co-indebtedness of the Austrians at the time of the Nazi regime, is that you throw something like a net to all those who want to live on with this lies of life from Austria's exclusive victim role and do not want to be irritated by historical facts. In addition, there are two historical concepts here. There is, on the one hand, the ÖVP that defends and says the state that defends the Dollusust regime, because it has defended the state of Austria, everything else that this regime has broken is apparently legitimate. This state became a victim, and that is why Austria is also the victim. At the same time, there are those, rather in the area of the liberals, who want to show all their guilt and are not really willing to restitution, even if the government is now doing something. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mrs. Minister! I ask you to: Make it clear that you are the Austrians...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10408	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10423	... not only as a victim, but also as a co-responsible for the crimes of the National Socialist regime.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10454	Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10475	Mr President. High house! ==References== In May, Polish Foreign Minister Bartoszewski, himself a former prisoner in concentration camps, said in this House on the occasion of the anniversary of the liberation of Mauthausen – I quote literally –: "One year before my graduation, the sovereign Republic of Austria was wiped out on the map of Europe." And I have to say that his speech at the time impressed me very much. We cannot define the historical truth today. As a state, Austria was the first victim of the National Socialist regime in Germany. That is exactly what I said in my speech at the foreign cultural conference, which is the occasion for this debate. Federal Chancellor Schüssel has also always addressed both sides of the heavy Austrian history. You remember that in his interview in the "Jerusalem Post", he confirmed the historical responsibility of Austria for what Austrians did as perpetrators in the time of National Socialism. At the same time, however, he pointed out that the sovereign Austria was the first victim of the Nazi regime under international law. In doing so, he confirmed the official position of Austria, as the then Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky formulated in 1991 in the National Council, who said – I quote – and you can read it everywhere –: "It is undisputed that in March 1938 Austria was victims of a military aggression with terrible consequences." Dr. Vrannitzky then spoke of Austrian perpetrators and said – quote –: "Many Austrians were involved in the repression and persecutions of the Third Reich, partly in a prominent position. About moral responsibility for our fellow citizens' actions, we cannot resist today." - Quote. Of course, this federal government is also committed to this responsibility, which within a few months – I do not really need to say that again – has solved the question of reparation for forced workers and is still negotiating the restitution of assets. In this sense, two days ago, in the debate on 28 November, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. The Austria has to live with the fact that there were perpetrators and victims of national socialist rule in Austria between 1938 and 1945 and that we also bear moral responsibility for how democratic Austria raised this question after 1945. But if we rightly say today that we, as Austrian moral responsibility for the past and its difficult work, we must also say, as Austrians, that, as historian Gerald Stourzh has formulated, "the end of Austria from March 1938 is a violent act carried by the outside" – literal quotation – "war". This does not apologise for any perpetrators, but is rightly part of the history of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would just like to add that I regret that this issue is now being taken on the occasion of party political polemics, by only talking about an Austrian perpetrator's role and being presented other than the moral evils, because they do not participate in such a one-sided rewritten of history. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Were not the Zig thousands of Austrian victims of National Socialism also part of this history? And here, too, I recall the speech of Bartoszewski, which I do not quote now, but which everyone can read. Should the perpetrators receive the absurd satisfaction that they are declared the essence of Austria and the Austrian? They devalue this, ladies and gentlemen, the victims of all those who were in opposition to the Hitler regime in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can therefore only ask all the political groups in this House to take seriously what Bartoszewski said on 4 July. May in this Parliament also said – and I would conclude with that – that: "Without critical thinking about the past, it is impossible to gain a reasonable look into the future – into a better future worthy of the new generation." Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10566	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now entering the debate. Each group has the opportunity to deliver an opinion of 5 minutes each. We shall proceed according to the strength ratio of the political groups. Mr Kostelka is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10594	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! They have just done so, and Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel and Mr. Khol did so with all the emphasis a few days ago when the role of Austria was re-examined on the occasion of its demise in 1938, on the grounds that the history of time should not be rewritten. Ladies and gentlemen! That is precisely the intention of representatives of the Federal Government! have seen military You are right, but the fall of Austria in 1938 cannot be limited to military historical aspects alone. Whoever catches history falsifies it, and that is the reason for this discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In his speech on Tuesday, Mr. Federal Chancellor has long passages of a telephone call between Seyss-Inquart and Hermann Göring on the evening of the 11th. ==References== But what the Federal Chancellor dropped under the table was that Seyss-Inquart was not a conspiracyal, illegal National Socialist, but at that time a member of the Austrian Federal Government and Austrian Interior Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! The National Socialists did not come into the country by night and fog in the wake of the marching German Wehrmacht, but at that time they were already members of the Federal Government, and that was due to a contract by the Austrian Chancellor with Adolf Hitler. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! The historical truth is quite simple that 1938 and the time before the problems were so diverse that the then state-owned fascist government did not complete with them alone. In addition, the mass base typical of fascist movements was already missing. And since the help of democratic states was simply and simply not possible, because a fascist regime could not expect this help, the anti-democratic regime had only two possibilities: either to orient itself to the fascist powers of Italy or Germany or to seek help in the country and thus to find the way back to democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! The tragedy of Austria in 1938 and before it was that his government has consistently opted for fascism and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Austria did not go down as a democratic state in 1938, but it had to lose its independence as a fascist trabant first in Italy and then in Germany almost necessarily because it had left the democratic path. – And that is the historical truth! Ladies and gentlemen! For me, the only question remains: Why this debate, and why here and today? – For me, there is only a recognizable answer, namely that you are obviously neither willing nor capable of taking responsibility for your own history.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10660	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10681	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Leopold von Ranke, the great historian of the past century, once described or described the task of history as follows: He said that the most important task of history was to explore and represent how it has really been in the past. This is admittedly a very purist position, which has also been revised by the development in the history of history. It is of course also part of the interpretation of history today. Ladies and gentlemen! But only interpretation or only suggestive questions without any basic research cannot replace history. Over the course of history, there have always been attempts to politicize history, to instrumentalize it, to serve it in the service of a political party or, if you want, to put States, dynasties, and something similar, seems to me, we also experience today. This is mainly a political-tactic discussion, which is just for the purpose of getting into the headlines. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as the events of 1938 are concerned, it is undisputed that at that time Austria ceased to exist through the invasion of foreign, rich German troops. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schuschnigg has a radio address on 11 May. On 3 March 1938, he said: The German government has given the President of the German Federal Republic a temporary ultimatum, and the President of the German Federal Republic instructs me to inform the Austrian people that we are turning away from violence. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is also clear that Austria was not a democracy between 1934 and 1938, but an authoritarian state. This has been the self-absorbing of Parliament since the German Chancellor Dollfuss. In March 1933, the third President of Parliament, the Great German Penalties, tried to prevent it from happening. The fact that the Austrian state was politically between the fascist Italy Mussolini and the National Socialist Germany since the Civil War of 1934 is also scientifically indisputable. Important influence on this orientation was certainly the home defenses or their leadership. The fact that the First Republic was politically and economically unstable has a number of reasons whose research has employed entire historical seminars. It was, on the one hand, the fight against paramilitary associations, the home defences, the Republican Protection League, which created a constant threat of civil war in this First Republic, on the other hand, but also the difficult economic situation. It was marked by high unemployment; today it would certainly be said: Mass unemployment. And this economic crisis worsened from the year 1929 when the Federal Chancellor Schober's customs union plan failed. Moreover, at that time – and that was also a factor – the connecting idea of 1918/1919 was not yet dead. I would like to mention two names which can be referred to as alternate: Otto Bauer, but also Karl Renner, two well-known social democratic politicians, statesmen. The connection idea with the Social Democrats was over only after Adolf Hitler's seizure of power in Germany. However, the idea of follow-up was not limited only to the political elites of that time, but was anchored in broad sections of the population by the pressure of economic conditions. The people who rejoiced at the time hoped for work and employment, but not war and concentration camps. After the First World War, the French war Prime Minister Clemenceau cynically observed: "Austria? That's the rest!" – And from the state that in 1918/1919 "no one wanted" had become a state that wanted to be few. Finally, a comment on the headline of the Greens, the alleged revision of Austrian history. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This word "revision" – and thus I come to the end – is, of course, a death-beat vocabulary in this discussion, because there is always a revision of the historical image. Whenever new history research is available, the history picture needs to be revised or changed, so we also confess to letting these new vocabulary flow in. But we have nothing to do with what you have proposed, because the expression of a political struggle is not a scientific debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10773	The next speaker is Mr Tancsits. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10794	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The debate on whether the sentence of Mrs Foreign Minister, "Hitler-Germany has attacked Austria militaryly and is occupating", is a revision of history, raises the question: Who should use such a revision? Does not the foreign country – perhaps up to the comment of the German Federal Foreign Minister at the time – have an undistorted and correct picture if you look at the foreign press from 1933 to 1938 or also after 1945 or if you read the Moscow Declaration of 1943 or also the Preamble of the 1955 State Treaty? This foreign country has and had the right picture! Hitler-Germany has attacked and occupied Austria in military terms. And I would like to add: Hitler-Germany was supported by a violent and highly treacherous fifth column in Austria. The Austrian population, a large part of it, and the Austrian government have put itself in a defense fight against this attempt of migration by the fifth column of the National Socialists in this country. These have marked as unwarranted witnesses as Karl Kraus in "The Third Walpurgisnacht" or Bertolt Brecht in "The Persistent Ascent of Arturo Ui". ==References====External links== July 1942 – a very consciously chosen date – in the United States a "Austrian Day" organized by 13 governors and the "Austrian Day" that was very influential at the time. And not for nothing in the USA there was the project of an Austrian legion to participate in the military liberation of Austria. This legion was known to have failed with the resistance of socialist emigration because it was only after 1945 that it was able to slowly disband itself from the idea of the Great German Unity State to its full extent. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore ask you: Why should the Federal Government, should the Federal Minister, wish to revise this picture of history abroad? Should we now give rights to the Nazi propaganda, which has always tried to represent the military robbery on Austria as the wish of a vast part of the population? ==References== November in the "Press" Mr. Dr. Vetter, a guest commentator – I quote –: "The work of Austrian history cannot be to finally give the Goebbels' lies about the national socialist attitude of Austria in the year 2000." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! That can't happen! We are all guilty of the victims of Nazi terrorism in Austria from 1933 to 1938 and in the area of Austria from 1938 to 1945.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10854	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10876	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we've kept going. With the declaration of the then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vrannitzky took place at the political level what history in Austria has been doing at this time – Mr. Kurzmann, without revision! – recognized as correct and important and what is certainly reproduced with the sentence "Austria was not only victims, but also perpetrators". But after the last week in this house a book about Austria was presented under the National Socialist rule – a collection volume – I would like to quote briefly from a contribution by the contemporary historian Hanns Haas from Salzburg about the time before the "connect". There it is said as chapter heading for example "Connecting from the inside" and "Austria is being undermined". This describes Austrian reality in the period before the actual "connect" before the invasion of the military troops of the Nazi regime. Austria was no longer free at the time – Mr Kurzmann pointed this out. But that's just one side of reality that existed at the time. It's not just that we were a non-free state at the time. It is also about the conduct of the Austrian Federal Government, under Dr. Kurt Schuschnigg, towards Hitler, in relation to the Great German Empire, by calling itself the second German state, and by including ministers – not only Seyss-Inquart, but also Gneise-Horstenau – in the government already in 1936, according to the July agreement, whose function was to establish the connection with the National Socialists in the German Reich, but also within Austria. This Gneise-Horstenau, for example, was a minister without a portfolio whose only task was to amnesty the Nazis who had previously been arrested for illegal activity. If you are already talking about the military "connect" then I would like to keep you from being a military concession by the government of Schuschnigg, the chief of general staff of the Austrian army Jansa, who recognized as the only one to be in Austria and who has developed march plans for the Austrian federal army, which, of course, have not remained unknown to the Nazis, has been put to the pressure of the Nazis and by Hitler as head of general staff. – These are realities! These are realities that must not be kept silent! [[Abg. Kiss: Who kept them silent?- Oh, my God!]] It is not only about the fact that from 1938 onward, from the day of the invasion – partly even before, as illegal National Socialists – Austrians were active as National Socialists and rejoiced at the "connect" but it is also about the institutions of this then Austrian government, this political constitution, not wanting to resist the pressure and not resist it. It's about a cooperation, about a favorite to the Berchtesgaden meeting between Schuschnigg and Hitler, as Schuschnigg explained and informed Hitler that in the long run he could participate that speed was the only thing that bothered him at the pressure of Hitler, but in the long run he could participate. [[Abg. Kiss: This is a general scientific standard!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Anyone who deals with the history of time...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's not about directing, it's not for me. [[Abg. Donabauer: But you are a strange history researcher!]] That's not for me! It is about historical facts that can also be brought to your attention by the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. I said: We've kept going, and I'd like us to go where we were. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You won't be a historian anymore!]] To end with a word of an earlier Chancellor – another – learn history! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10984	The short debate is thus closed; and also the long debate. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11006	We'll be back to the agenda. Advisory Group III Chapter 20: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11033	We shall begin with the negotiation of the Advisory Group III: Outwards. Does a rapporteur wish to speak? This is not the case. That's why I'm going to the list of speakers. This is what Mr Arbitrator has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11062	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Rarely two agenda items fit together so well. In both cases, it is also a question of foreign policy. The years 1933 to 1938 have also been an example of what a false foreign policy can lead to. This was reflected in the problem of directing Austrian foreign policy to Italy. When it came to the accord between Italy and Germany, the ruins of foreign policy were faced, and there was no more chance of doing something because one had not been oriented to the West at the right time. In reality, this was also a reason for what we are discussing today. It must be taught that foreign policy is to be carried together and designed according to principles that guarantee the best for a country. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] I am very grateful to all those who have said that one should stick to the political and historical truth. Mr Tancsits has rightly spoken about this – unfortunately he does not listen to me, but perhaps he reads it in the Minutes – that social democracy is long, probably false and to a high extent also problematicly dependent on the idea of German-Austria, on the resolution of the monarchy and on the question of whether this rest alone is viable or not. But the accusation that only after the war lessons were drawn out of it is historically not true, Mr. Deputies. It was in 1933 when Hitler took power in Germany – it was in 1933 when Austrian social democracy removed the "connect" article from its party program! This is the historical truth, Mr Tancsits.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11108	Member of the Arbitrator! We always allow a few introductory sentences on the previous subject. However, I would like to refer you to the budget issue. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11134	Mr President. I must follow you and come to today's foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The end of the 14 measures has given Austrian foreign policy the opportunity and at the same time the commitment to regain lost positions and rebuild confidence in foreign policy throughout Europe. We have come to know here in the House about this common task and have pointed out that we are willing to do so, but this cannot be a one-way road. Being involved, of course, brings with it obligations to be involved, even for an opposition party, but also brings rights. This includes, for example, the right to be consulted before and not only informed afterwards. I think, or do we say this: I had the hope that despite all the differences, despite all the criticism of this government, the much-conjured common foreign policy could really be common for a certain period of time to remedy the damage in Europe. A common foreign policy is not only a common foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just a similarity or identity of statements, but also a common foreign policy means contacts in the evaluation of the operations and in the definition of Austrian intentions, projects and objectives. We understand that, Mrs Bundesminister, then it has not become better, but then it is currently a bad job for the common foreign policy. You don't bind the opposition. You don't inform before. You do not contact. For the sake of honesty, however, I would like to say straight away: Getting Informed Again They are very detailed and do as it has been agreed. But that's not enough. Commonness also means that contacts are available during the preparation. Examples of how we have been excluded, eliminated and then surprised include, for example, your so-called – but it was probably also meant by you – Goodwill action and its funding, the tailored cooperation programme with NATO, the preparation of Austrian positions regarding ESDP – and the proposals before Feira – as well as the Austrian position on the French documents concerning Feira’s orders to ESVP to France – in particular with regard to military committee, relations with NATO, management of the security institutions and other CFSP issues – as well as the issue of the announcement of the reduction or recruitment of certain UN quotas. There was no contact before. This also applies to other questions. There are – and I have to hold this – promises in a number of points that I assume will be observed. This is the way in which there is a commitment to information in Nice to deal with the institutional question, which we shall see. In Nice today's Foreign Policy Council on Open Questions on ESDP and CFSP has also made a commitment to a written answer to all questions. This will be important for a common foreign policy, Mrs Minister. We expect, however, that we will not be put before the final facts, but that we will be involved in a timely manner. There are great problems ahead of us. The institutional issues of the EU should be taken together, or the issue of enlargement. I welcome the strategic partnership – even if it is late, it is good that this programme is coming now. It will be important to involve all groups in these countries, including the opposition, but also in Austria. Moreover, it will be the question of involving the government partner accordingly, otherwise it will not work. There are also open questions regarding the EU crisis response force. It will be important for us to work together. The development of enhanced cooperation between the EU and the Russian Federation is also an important issue. How important these contacts with the Russian Federation are and how quickly a failure can occur, the OSCE conference has shown here. The deepening of EU-UN relations is another point or also the Austrian units, international issues, the reform of the foreign office itself and all that can be summarized under the term "new European foreign policy". Mrs. Federal Minister! The same applies to a government: As she prays, so she lies. – If you are a government in foreign policy on common ground, you will also have a common appearance for Austria. If you don't want it, that's your right too, and we have to be right. It won't be good for the country!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11205	Mr Tancsits spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would ask for the corrective statement of fact and the actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11229	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder said in his speech that I would have said that social democracy would not have been resolved until after 1945 from the idea of connecting to the Great German Unity State. I did not say that, I actually want to correct that. I did not blame social democracy. I also place personal value on that if I was misunderstanded. I just said that socialist emigration in the United States had only been resolved after 1945 by the big German one thought of unity. I particularly cite the writings of Friedrich Adler, who had rejected the idea of the Austrian nation in 1946, in this short period of time.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11267	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11289	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr President. I believe that Mr Lunacek has today given two members of this House the opportunity to receive some supplementary education in the history of Austria. They have – and that was a remarkable achievement – also avoided showing that there were both there and there which – from the point of view that I cannot judge because I did not live at the time – have judged things slightly differently and thus wronged themselves. You have deliberately avoided referring to the name of a Linz mayor whom you know well, or to the name of a twice-founder who is otherwise highly appreciated in your movement, in this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You don't?]] Of course! But what I would like to say is that I would like to call this debate, led by Mr Kurzmann and Mr Tancsits, as a highlight not only of today's meeting, but of all of these days which we have already put behind us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It has also become clear that an objective view of history can take place here – but you are trying to bring out party-political capital through revisionism. But this should not happen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11344	Mr Schweitzer! I asked colleagues to speak on the agenda. I'll do this in the same way with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11359	That is exactly what I wanted to do now, Mr President. I turn to the subject of this debate. I also understand the desire of Mrs Foreign Minister – whom she might have had in secret – after increasing her financial contribution. But, like all the other ministers of this government, it has had to comply with the economic constraints and has made re-transmissions within its budget. Mrs. Foreign Minister! I think you have made these redeployments in such a way that there must be no major restrictions on foreign policy at all. I also think it was quite useful to consider whether messages, consulates and foreign trade agencies can be grouped together in individual areas. We may even achieve synergies. As a central point of my contribution, however, I would like to address the forthcoming Nice meeting. Mrs. Foreign Minister! We have already had a number of discussions on the various points, and we will continue to do so in the main committee. The Commission should be strengthened – and we hope to agree on it – as far as we are trying to strengthen the President's position. In particular, Austria should insist on a contractual anchoring of the right of dismissal vis-à-vis individual Commissioners. I believe that this would be a useful strengthening for the President of the Commission. It cannot be that, if a Commissioner has a mistake, the whole Commission must withdraw because one wants to get rid of or get rid of a Commissioner. On the other hand, it is unacceptable to call for the Federal Minister, who is being raised by other Member States: to allocate Commissioners to Commissioners on important matters and to Commissioners on non-important matters. From an Austrian point of view, we should avoid this in all cases. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For the weighting of votes, we must – we have already agreed on this – demand a double majority. The Austrian vote weight should not fall below 4 per cent for the qualified majority and 10 per cent for the blockade minority, so that we still have weight in the Council. It is also essential to prevent the great from institutionalising the blockade minority through a special weighting of votes. These efforts are, as you know, in progress, and this must be avoided. Furthermore, the qualified majority should not be prevented by three or fewer states. We must also place special emphasis on this in the negotiations. I am very pleased that, as I was able to read the news yesterday, in addition to Austria and France, Germany is also working for the full maintenance of unanimity in the areas of visa, asylum and immigration policy. Our demand will certainly have a very, very high weight there, and there will be no change in these essential questions for Austria as regards maintaining unanimity. As long as there are no binding quotas, for example, for the division of refugees, Mrs Federal Minister, and as long as there is no common fund to cover costs that arise at all, the other Member States may decide, but do not want to share the burdens with us, there can be no multi-vocacy principle here, and there must be unanimity. Mrs. Federal Minister! I warn against the abolition of unanimity in Article 71. I also spoke to colleagues Kukacka about this, and he told me that he will have this examined again. This article deals with rules on the principles of transport regulations, whose application could seriously affect the living and employment situation in certain areas and the operation of transport facilities. In my opinion, the ban on weekend driving in Austria will also be affected by this, Mrs Federal Minister. I can't imagine that, apart from a few exceptions, anyone would be happy with the case of the weekend ban. This should therefore be examined in detail again. If that is the case, as I believe, then there is also a need to be careful and to maintain the principle of unanimity. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am also grateful for the fact that the unanimity of Article 175 has already been included in the Government Agreement. I hope that it will be in the interests of all the parties here in the House if the management of water resources, the questions of spatial planning, the issues of land use and waste management or the choice of energy sources remains subject to the principle of unanimity. In order to recast Article 7, I believe that we should always insist on the majority of 14 and x minus 1. If this is not possible, then I believe that this regulation must be at least 90 percent, for a very good one – already on the basis of the experience we had to make with the sanctions at the beginning of this year. If the procedure is to be a rule of law, Mrs Federal Minister, it must also be involved in some form of the ECJ. This should also be reflected in the negotiations. Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, on the subject of enlargement. I believe that without a successful institutional reform – and at the moment it does not look like it is going to be successful in Nice – there can be no rapid enlargement because the institutions, as we now know, are not suitable for enlargement. But there are also other important arguments that speak against an all too rapid enlargement. I repeat her again: The impact of enlargement on the labour market, especially in the border regions, is worrying, Mrs Federal Minister. I share these concerns and fears with the workers – especially those at the borders of Lower Austria, Burgenland, Styria and Carinthia. I think we are well advised to take seriously the fears of these sections of the population. Many of them feel like losing when there is a rapid, unprepared expansion. Many have the feeling that their jobs are changing, that, in particular, day-to-day commuters – who will be there, as you have also done in your study – could press the wages, because we are currently paying up to 20 percent over the collective contract, and at least these 20 percent will be gone immediately if there is a very large number of workers. They themselves count the pendler potential in about 200 000, and that is already considerable. Therefore, the effects that many are afraid of are very realistic. Therefore, we liberals say that the conditions for a peaceful enlargement should be created. The whole enlargement is always referred to as a peace project, but if enlargement makes the fears of existence that many have become reality, then that cannot be peaceful enlargement. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am very glad that you want to approach Nice in my proposal to establish an "Austria platform": a forum in which to discuss comprehensively what the internal Austrian preparation for enlargement should look like. This "Austrian Platform" is intended to draw up accompanying measures that need to be put in place in Austria, as well as measures we want from the European Union. Mr. Schieder! They have rightly called for cooperation in the field of foreign policy. I believe that this "Austria platform" will provide enough opportunity for us to work together in the interests of the Austrian population, especially in the interests of the border population concerned. I would like to invite you to this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11462	Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11484	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to what I have actually said, I must first look at some of the comments made by Mr Schweitzer. Deputies! The SPÖ and us would try to propose a revision of party-political capital, because we are presenting a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs here for discussion, which is certainly not really possible. You're serious! I strongly reject this, because it is you, your group, your former party observer and others, who in the past, even in the not too distant past, have repeatedly made statements about the time of National Socialism, which can be put in the field of revisionism. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] We're definitely not that! However, in order to get on with this afternoon's debate on foreign policy as a whole, I would like to say the following, and Mr Schweitzer has also given me a few words: You, Mr Schweitzer, have also said here again – and this is exactly the fear that I raised today in the Foreign Affairs Council to the Foreign Minister – that you are opposed to a rapid enlargement because you are concerned about the labour market, you have to take the fears of the people seriously and so on. [[Abg. Böhacker: Shouldn't you?]] Of course you have to take people's fears seriously. But how do you do that? – They conduct a popular survey in the Burgenland, which is not even covered by the Burgenland Constitution. They do a popular survey, deceive people there that they can really create a national referendum, and you really believe that people come in on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a populist show, which your party is currently doing in Burgenland. [[Abg. Wattaul: A popular survey is a "political show"?]] In addition, it was said that you would still present 10,000 signatures – three days to the Burgenlander Landtagswahl – these days. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Patience! Patience!]] To this day we don't have her. I hope that we will not get them either in the next few days, because I doubt that you will get together with your method of making moods against people who live just a few kilometers beyond the border, so many voices, namely 10,000 signatures. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We will not present them to you!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Always everything against the people! Not for people!]] Mr Schweitzer! Well, it's against her! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There you could just as argue with Temelin!]] They say that enlargement must be well prepared. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Border blockades are against the people!]] Of course, we are all ready for enlargement. I ask you, but I also ask the Federal Minister: Mrs. Federal Minister, you said today in the early days of the Foreign Affairs Council, but also in the past, how important a strategic partnership with the candidate countries is to you, especially with those on our borders. You have announced that you want to work more in this direction. But we know very well: If we are talking about a well-prepared enlargement, it is first of all important to take Mr Schweitzer's fears seriously. Do you know what that would mean? – That would mean, for example, that the government – and I am speaking to you again, Mrs. Minister – does not use 80 million schilling to make it clear to the country why it needs to be saved, with photos of babies who say on the half of the poster that they are pleading, not on the other. I emphasize: 80 million schilling to advertise your government policy in the country! Do you really need that? Wouldn't this 80 million schilling be better used if one really were to take action in the border regions if, for example, one started an educational offensive for Austrian workers in these regions, for all those people who are afraid that the labour market would be flooded? Would it not be useful to step up initiatives with this money, with these 80 million schillings, and perhaps carry out something like a meeting offensive at the borders? Mr Schweitzer! In this respect, I have not heard from you, but unfortunately not from you, Mrs Foreign Minister, that you are doing something in this direction. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Didn't you know?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: "Austria platform"!]] They're always just talking about people's fears. Of course you have to take them seriously, but you have to do something about it. And you don't! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: With the "Austria platform"!]] – You may need it now, but from your party only something comes in the direction of a popular survey, and the fears are shocked by your side. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you have something else to contribute than the eternal leader?]] There are no positive measures to do so, perhaps also with money. With this – and with that I come back to you, Mrs Foreign Minister – the Federal Government's attitude is clear to me as well. As much as I personally know that you are in favour of this enlargement, but with your government partner, the liberals who are currently trying populistly to recruit voters in Burgenland, your attempts towards a strategic partnership with the candidate countries are not credible. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't be so!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] That can't really be serious. One clearly contradicts the other. But let me also come to other points relating to foreign policy; there are many there. Mr Schieder has already raised a number of points which would be in need of reform, particularly as regards the foreign office itself, for example, better coordination with the foreign trade agencies. There is progress in some places, but there would be, I think, much more to do in the future. As far as the OSCE Presidency is concerned, I should like to express my appreciation for the fact that For example, you have brought Central Asia more into the OSCE than the others have done before you. As far as the situation with Russia is concerned, in the future – unfortunately, in the past there was no such thing – even stronger diplomatic efforts with Moscow, rather behind the political stage than on it, because otherwise it will be difficult for Russia in the OSCE, where it is involved, in the future. Austria will continue to be represented in the Troika next year. With Romania, it will certainly be a not quite simple task, not to do so, since it is not yet clear who will be the head of government or the head of state in Romania and how this work can be done. In this respect, I believe that there are high demands on Austrian foreign policy, on Austrian diplomacy, in order to reach a better agreement with Russia. Mrs. Minister! There are still a few points in which I believe there are questions that have not been clarified. It was decided to deduct the UN quota from Cyprus – which was also said by you – in the middle of next year. I asked the Minister of Defence yesterday. The answer was not very clear. There was a statement in the "Press" a few days ago that there may be a consideration that the Eurocorp does not have to be provided with 2000 extra soldiers, but that perhaps even the soldiers in Cyprus, who are now in the UN forces, will be retained and only those who are still missing will be taken up by the Eurocorp. This would mean that this budget item will remain in the external budget for the next few years. Mrs. Minister! What do you know about that? Is this how it looks, or are the UN troops actually being subtracted from Cyprus? [[Abg. Young: Can you talk a little bit about the subject?]] Another point to which I would also like to make a request. She said: It's about the cultural institutions. Austria has some abroad. In Iran, the Austrian Cultural Institute is the only EU country. Unfortunately, it was decided that, although this cultural institution as an independent institution will continue to be maintained outwardly, the costs and the merits of the first-divided person, who is also the head of the cultural institute, were reduced in retrospect. Although I can understand your answer, it is said that these are synergies in the administrative field, but especially in a very important country in this region, where Austria – I repeat it – has a cultural institution as the only country in the EU and where it is possible to engage in a greater dialogue over the cultural level, at least in terms of cutting and not expanding the possibilities of the cultural institute, while the one in Berlin is being expanded at the same time, and there are also considerations about reopening that one in Egypt, which seems to me to be a policy that does not go in the right direction. Finally, let me come to some points of development cooperation. They have maintained it within the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the total amount of funding in this year remains the same as last year, of course without any inflation penalty. So the same means are no longer. But I already have the impression that your efforts to increase the total budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to get more for individual points have unfortunately not been as successful as I thought it would be necessary for Austrian foreign policy. On Austrian development cooperation: How, Mrs Minister, do you want to strengthen the coherence between the individual ministries in the future? – It is still true that while you are officially the coordinator of Austrian development cooperation between the ministries, there is no regular vote on the criteria that are very good for the bilateral – such as poverty reduction. Under these criteria, the World Bank is also putting its work to work. These are points which are not yet taking place in the other ministries, at least under your specific coordination competence. However, I would like this to be done, and I expect this from the Austrian development policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jäger.]] Once again on the tuition fees: I ask you again. Unfortunately, Mrs Gehrer did not answer me at first. I therefore assume that this will be decided as planned, namely that students from developing countries will have to pay tuition fees – from the poorest countries in the world! Mrs. Minister! I cannot see that you have not been able to put forward a different proposal here in the discussion with the Minister for Education. If education is one of the priorities of Austrian development policy, it is a manko that cannot be accepted. [[It is a surprise to the Greens as well as to the Deputies of Jäger and Arbitrators.]] Overall, I note that, as far as development policy is concerned, you have a line which is based on the fact that, above all, there should be cooperation at the State level between the Austrian Government and the governments of the priority countries, and that, as you yourself say, you are seeking that the non-governmental organisations will only be paid for their activities if they carry out orders, but that continuous cooperation with non-governmental organisations is not a priority concern to you as well as to make proposals to carry out projects. Mrs. Minister! This reduces your efforts and shortens the commitment of people in Austria to a North-South dialogue, which you always say is so important to you, and which are also willing to work a lot of volunteering, also work unpaidly. These opportunities will no longer have these people if you do not want to support them in a broad sense of democracy as independent and independent organisations. I miss that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11736	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11758	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The budgetary approaches that appear here for the Foreign Office show once again that around 4 billion Schillings are a small budget; a small budget, which – and I do not want to mention everything again now – is suffering just as much as other budgets are suffering that we have a total debt reduction programme and therefore cannot set the major priorities in foreign policy that we all would like to put. But it's like this: It is necessary to save in all areas – so here too. However, I believe that the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has also succeeded in setting at least a few priorities. I take out the focus of the cultural institutions. If you compare the budget approaches, you see, there is at least a small increase there. I would also like to congratulate you on this, Mrs Federal Minister. From my point of view, it is necessary, in times of budgetary scarcity, to focus at least on the cultural institutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the budget is small, it will have a great impact if you take into account what the employees of the office as a whole do. At this point, I would like to thank all the staff of the Foreign Office, especially those of the Diplomatic Service, for having in no way restricted the quality of their service to the Austrians abroad. We keep receiving very positive reports. It is necessary to deal with all the consular cases. The trend is still that there are an increasing number of cases, but they are done with great motivation. I would really like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen of the Foreign Office for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to focus a little on the priorities represented in this budget, but also on the future foreign policy of Austria. We had the OSCE presidency in this year at the end of the year. As President, the Federal Minister has done this, as I believe, excellently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It has therefore issued a very good business card for Austria, especially in view of the summit that has just taken place in Vienna. We see that the questions that you, Mrs Minister, have been working on, namely in the case of Caucasus and the Balkans, are not very simple and are not going to be dealt with from today to tomorrow. However, it is crucial that the OSCE strengthens its commitment in these areas and tries permanently to move towards a common solution with appropriate management in these conflict regions. I believe that you have done a lot of things about the Caucasus and the Balkans. I would also like to express our appreciation for this. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have now found a beautiful recognition in Vienna, after so many Foreign Ministers have come here and so have given this summit in Vienna a special importance. The meeting gained added importance by the fact that Kostunića – Yugoslavia was re-entered here – and also Madeleine Albright, the American Foreign Minister, was present. This shows that you have been able to use your good contacts, which you have had for many years, very well in this case in order to give Austria a very good conclusion to his presidency. Ladies and gentlemen! A second focus on the future is probably the one you have once again presented in the Foreign Policy Council, namely the question of strategic partnerships. Since we are facing an enlargement of the European Union, it is very necessary, from our point of view, to maintain intensive cooperation with the candidate countries at a first stage, and then, if you are actually members of a large Union, to strengthen this cooperation in the direction that Central Europe and Central Europe will be able to form a new focus in this large Union in the future. I believe that you have not only recognized these signs, but that you are now also starting with appropriate measures. We have heard today that there is a very positive response from the candidate countries to all the summits held by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, on the part of the Foreign Minister. I think we should all be very interested in the fact that, in addition to the Nordic countries, in addition to the Benelux countries, there will be cooperation between the countries of Central and Central Europe in the future, in addition to the Mediterranean regions which have worked very well so far. This would enable us to enforce common interests in a way that would never be possible alone. Therefore, after integration into the European Union, the future project to enter into strategic partnerships with these countries is probably the next foreign policy priority that we should set ourselves. This is a goal which can only be seen far away from the horizon, but which we should try to achieve together. I would like to congratulate you on recognizing this and making a permanent effort to implement it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to address a third priority, the first phase of which is just ahead of us, and which is the Nice Summit. In my view, it is extremely necessary that we make clear our interests there, whether this is the representation in all European institutions or the issue of voting weighting, namely that there is a certain balance between the large and small countries and not everything to go to the big ones, and that we do not want to get unanimity on what points will continue to exist in the future, but rather on the essential interests of Austria, such as, for example, Article 175 on the issues of water resources, spatial planning and land use. I can add that through my contacts I have been able to learn again and again that Mrs Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner has already won a lot of terrain for us through her targeted way of preparing these things as best I can. At a difficult stage this year, when we were affected by the sanctions of the other 14 EU countries, it has nevertheless managed to move a variety of things into the role of rolling stones. I therefore assume that you, Mrs Federal Minister, together with the Federal Chancellor, will succeed in fighting in Nice not only for us, but also in achieving a useful result. I can tell you, at least on behalf of my group, that we have full confidence in you and believe that you will be the best possible representative of Austria in Nice.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11857	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. The decisions of the National Council of today on the time-limits are known. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11878	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It was indeed a year difficult, extremely intense and busy for Austrian foreign policy, which is now drawing to a close. It has already been mentioned in the debate that the OSCE Ministerial Conference has just taken place, which the OSCE Presidency of Austria almost completes. Only more than ten days will separate us from the Nice European Council, where, as was the case with the important contributions to the debate, decisive adjustments to the EU reform towards the European Union's increase in efficiency and preparation for enlargement will come. The first half of the year, as we know, was marked by the measures of the EU-14. I have tried to compensate as much as I could for in the second half of the year through active bilateral contact and visit diplomacy. At the end of this year I can now say that I have succeeded: We have been able to welcome all EU ministers back to Austria, on the one hand within the OSCE, and on the other hand, for example now, President Chirac and Foreign Minister Védrine, on the other. And it was also the American Foreign Minister, who normally did not visit the OSCE, in Vienna. So I think we have been able to show that we have recovered a lot of terrain. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this context, I too can thank my staff at the Ministry for their very great commitment. All of this is so important because it concerns the major issues that today have a bearing on Europe and the world. I have had several opportunities in recent months – in the various committees, in the National Council, but also in the Federal Council – to discuss matters of foreign policy with you. In my first speech, I would just like to address some of the current priorities. First of all, to Nice: The most important question of the European Council is, of course, whether we will succeed in completing this ambitious reform project. As you all know, these are the four major issues: the Commission, the weighting of votes, the qualified majority and the question of enhanced cooperation or flexibility, as well as – this is very important for us! – Article 7. The Austrian positions are widely known to you. Briefly summarized: You know, we represent the right of every EU Member State to be represented in the Commission with a Commissioner. In return, we are willing to take a moderate vote weighting. We are ready to talk about extending the majority decisions to prevent the risk of blocking in an enlarged Union. However, there are certain, very sensitive areas that concern the fundamental interests of our country, and in these we will be absolutely in favour of unanimity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the subject of enhanced cooperation, the lines for a procedure have already been set which will in principle facilitate a smaller, more inclusive group to develop more quickly. It is important to us in this respect, however, that the interests of the subsequent States are not affected. The aim is to further develop EU law within and not outside the Treaty. We wish to see a further development which is the same in all the pillars and in which at least eight Member States are to participate. I'm allowed to say: Nice will certainly not be easy. We're going to have to adjust to a real match. However, I am cautiously optimistic that we will have a useful result in the end. This is the prerequisite for enlargement, my second major issue with regard to the focus on future Austrian foreign policy. Two weeks ago, the Commission's progress report was presented, one of which, I would say, was well balanced, but it also contains a realistic assessment of the negotiations, which underlines both the successes and the deficits and sets out a kind of duty book for the candidate countries. At the same time, the Commission has set out a roadmap. This roadmap and procedure are ambitious. All of this is not unfulfilled, but for my house and above all my officials in a particular section again means a special effort. The pace is so high that only now 130 pages of instructions to Brussels had to go to take the further steps. In this regard, I should like to draw attention to what Mr Arbitrator has said. I am trying very well to involve the opposition in foreign policy. Once I have announced the strategic partnership but have not yet gone into every detail, that means that we have to think first of all about what we want to do. I have already announced that, following the Intergovernmental Conference, it is only then that it makes sense to create an Austrian platform with which to do exactly that, namely the opposition and the social partners as well as the representatives of the border regions and partly of the federal states, so that we can come to an overall Austrian consensus, because it is obviously not easy to reach this consensus. On this occasion a comment: The border regions of Austria have seen an economic upturn of at least 4 percent in recent years. I must say that I am pleased because we must, of course, continue to speed up the development of border regions in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The question of the nuclear policy of our neighbouring countries and the question of the Beneš and AVNOJ decrees is of course also the subject of the sensitive issues, such as the free movement of persons, transport and agriculture policy. We have often negotiated this enough, I do not go into detail today, but I would like to say that, together with this Austrian platform and also with the strategic partnership, which is, so to speak, an offer to the Central European candidate countries, we have the opportunity to launch an information initiative through a programme of the European Commission, co-financed by Austria. We will certainly start to address this issue in the next six months, because I believe that now is the time when we need to inform in detail. I would also like to address the strategic partnership briefly. They now all know our two-phase plan: to create a constructive platform in the first phase, to address all the issues, and then to hold a meeting together in the second phase, like the Benelux countries, before each European Council, in order to coordinate positions as closely as possible. I am sure that there are many questions in which we represent similar or even the same positions, so that we automatically have a great opportunity to present ourselves better and to carry out more positions through more alliances. I would also like to address something that I launched again in the circle of the EU Foreign Ministers at the last General Affairs Council, namely the idea of the "Partnership for Europe". On the other hand, for those countries that are oriented towards Europe, but cannot yet join the EU or want to, a multilateral, flexible framework adapted to the individual interests of the different states, we should create a clamp, similar to the framework we have in the form of NATO's "partnership for peace", because everyone can do what is best for him. This question has been discussed and will be discussed further. The Balkan Partnership is also playing its part, which has now been discussed at the Zagreb Summit for the first time. High house! On 27 and 28. The OSCE ministerial meeting took place in Vienna in November, whose great significance was given by the fact that all the Balkan states are now again democratic. This was expressed by the signing of the three major OSCE documents – the Helsinki Act, the Charter of Paris and the Istanbul Document – by President Kostunica and by the presence of the American Foreign Minister, who first participated in an OSCE Ministerial Conference. I think we've made a good move. Mr Arbitrator, I do not agree that this has been a failure. It wasn't a failure! The OSCE is a consensual organisation, which today comprises 55 states. That 55 states say yes to a large political text is not always easy. And there has also been a "German statement" in Copenhagen, in the final effect for the areas which could not be coordinated in a consensus. They know that it was very difficult to find a consensus text for Moldova, Georgia and, above all, for Chechnya. The Austrian Presidency, especially Mrs Ambassador Jutta Stefan-Bastl, whom I would like to expressly thank from this point of view, has negotiated all night to reach such a compromise text. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of the SPÖ, the Free and the Greens]] However, it is in the nature of such an organization that such a text of consensus can only be adopted if all states agree to each wording. I hope that the possibility of consensus will be restored in the future, but, as I said, we have exhausted the maximum of what was possible. I have succeeded in carrying out some of the consensual documents. One concerns the important issue of small arms, the other the question of trafficking in human beings. Both are particularly important for Austria. I am also pleased that it has succeeded in finding a successor to the outgoing High Commissioner for National Minorities Max van der Stoel, who has done a great deal in conflict prevention: It is the Swedish diplomat Rolf Ekeus. I have also negotiated this very, very long. It wasn't easy, and I'm glad it succeeded. I would like to address another bilateral issue, which I believe is an important issue of success this year, namely South Tyrol. As I could briefly explain in the Committee on Budgets, Austrian interest in the autonomy of South Tyrol continues. The South Tyroleans also attach great importance to the maintenance of this special relationship with Austria. This was also reflected in the fact that a few days ago the Federal Chancellor was the main speaker of a state assembly of the South Tyrol People's Party and reaped enthusiastic applause there. Over the last few years, we have generally seen a very positive development in South Tyrol autonomy. Even after the completion of the package, the South Tyroleans succeeded in obtaining a number of additional skills from Rome and thus strengthening their national autonomy. In this context, I think that the constitutional reform recently adopted in the Italian Parliament is particularly important. Formally, this is about changes to the South Tyrol autonomous statute, but I can say that this reform was not carried out by Italy alone, but in agreement with Austria. This was actually done by the fact that Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini expressly explained to me in an official letter that the international character of the South Tyrol package was given. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I also replied to Dini and very much welcomed the current constitutional reform, which means a strengthening of autonomy and was decided in agreement with representatives of the Austrian minority in the Roman Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! One last word, generally on the budget. Let me say that despite the very extensive tasks in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the constant increase in new ideas, of course, my department also had to continue to count on the reduction of personnel. We've got about 1,600 planning stations. This year this figure has been reduced by 32 jobs, and next year there will be a further reduction because we want to comply with the budget discipline. Nevertheless, we will strive to give our maximum. I would also like to say at this point – and I may come back to it later on – that it was a particular concern for me to leave an area the same within the framework of these budget cuts, namely development cooperation. Believe me, for this I had to make many sacrifices in other areas, and these too are of course constantly mentioned and kept before me. At the same time, however, it is not possible to do everything, such as in Tehran, to pay someone a higher salary and at the same time not to cut expenditure on development cooperation. You must also see this connection, Mrs Lunacek. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12039	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12060	Highly revered President! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, you have just mentioned in your speech the extent of the work, in particular the preparation of the European Intergovernmental Conference in Nice, and have addressed a 130-page statement. In this context, may I ask you to consider whether it is possible to make this direction accessible to the opposition parties as well, so that we may be able to work even more concretely in preparation for the main committee next week, which will deal with the Intergovernmental Conference and institutional reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Otherwise, Mr President, I would like to focus today on concerns that we have had in connection with Austrian foreign policy since the start of this Federal Government. It will not be possible to mention separately all the positive achievements which you, Mrs Federal Minister, have also done and which we recognize. I would like to concern myself with the fact that, from many examples – and I will list some of them – this federal government has given the impression that since its inception, it has often used foreign policy, the outside in particular to create a mood for the interior, and that it is a matter for you and the government groups to work out the opposites that exist, to paint a picture in black and white, or to create a friend-of-enemy relationship, and thus to create a climate – in fact, it has to be said: to restore – which seemed to end with the end of the so-called sanctions, the bilateral measures of the EU-14. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! What we see is that there is a whole series of, as I mean, targeted advances that cannot have any purpose other than to restore this climate or, in other words, to pursue a policy of "impressors" which in many cases does not have in mind Austrian interests, but which is very likely to be interested in creating a climate and a mood within it that gives the impression that "the outside" all loves evil and "we inside" and, by the way, poor, because the others do not understand us. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I think that is a point to which you have occasionally also made your word, to which you have occasionally raised your voice, but in recent times you have often kept silent. And I will come back to one of these examples. We have the impression – and this is clear and clear – that, in many of the measures it takes, this federal government is reducing the degree of solidarity in this country, is reducing the institutions that have organised solidarity, and, at the same time, wants to put a common sense on a nationalistic basis, by so much attacking or criticizing others or by putting them at the centre of a seemingly foreign-political discussion that will be criticised from there, which will once again allow you, in the Federal Government and with you, ladies and gentlemen, of the majority of government, to create the feeling that poor Austrians are surrounded by loud enemies. Let me make these statements very concrete. I have the impression that I would like to link with a question: Mrs Bundesminister, can you tell me what Austrian interests it serves or to what extent it serves the interests of Austria to deal with the question of the AVNOJ and Beneš decrees in the form of a public debate? [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: Are you against human rights?]] Do you have the impression that this is of any benefit in solving the problem behind it? Or would you agree with me that it is right to eliminate injustice – you are absolutely right – but that injustice can only be eliminated if one is aware of the historical facts and, last but not least, of the historical guilt of many Austrians who have led to this counter-emotion, whose outflow were the two mentioned acts in Slovenia and in the Czech Republic? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Returning wrongfully with injustice: Is that what you want?]] It's not about retribution at all, Mr. Schweitzer. You know exactly what I'm talking about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Call to the liberals.]] What it is all about here is not to develop cheap populism against two other states, but to ensure, with tough and calm bilateral diplomacy, that the problem is solved instead of doing what you do in-house policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To give a different example, Mrs Bundesminister: My impression is that in the wake of the so-called sanctions, which have been popularised by you – namely, by the government, not by you personally – by the Federal Government as an instrument of mood, now, after the end of the so-called sanctions, is to bring about a change of attitude to the EU and to EU integration. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: They were ventilated by you!]] The constant talk of the alleged French-German board of directors, so to speak, to create an enemy image of the greats, to favour the collapse of the little ones and to say: If the great ones look at how they make us dispute the rights!, I don't think it is particularly interesting. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! What it is all about is that we are actively pursuing our interests, Austrian interests in Europe, and that means that we need to seek and enter into partnerships with all states when they agree with our interests. Unlike you, Mr Schweitzer, in your speech – when you said that Article 71 of the EU Treaty was of any importance to the weekend ban – it is already so that this issue is subject to the qualified majority decision and that it has succeeded in preventing Austria from reaching an agreement through such partnership policy with France and Germany and finally with Italy. I have always succeeded in organizing the necessary block-minority, and I think that is interest policy in the interests of Austria, in this case in the interest of all those who want to be unobstructed by increasing truck traffic during the weekend. This is about interests, and they should be persecuted, and not about cheap polemics against individual states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I am also not convinced that the concept of a strategic alliance with the future candidate countries, with our neighbours, can lead a strategic alliance in Central Europe particularly far. If one considers how members of the Federal Government, first of all the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, or members of the national governments or the two government groups against these countries are constantly on the road – this is to be demonstrated by different examples – then one has to ask: Who really, do you think, can be interested in establishing an alliance with this Austria and perhaps also ask Austria to take over the speaker role? What's going on there is just an attempt by a hurt government to show it "den" in Brussels to the West, because they were so "chief" to us, and to say: That's where we get other partners, and together we show it to you! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is to be rejected by many statements by the Federal Minister and the Federal Chancellor!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I do not really think this is a policy of interest, I think, if I express it very mildly, that it is a bold attempt, based on historical facts, but not particularly promising. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Let me say one last thing: What I consider to be the worst of all the measures I have taken here is the following: I have the impression that some members of the Federal Government and members of the government group are consciously provocations to create a climate that restores all that has been the case during the time of sanctions. If Mr. Federal Chancellor about 9th. November the "Jerusalem Post" gives an interview and has nothing else to say in it than that he does not regret the coalition with Haider, and by the way, that Austria has been the "first victim", then it is not about questions of history, but about whether at this time an interview with a newspaper that appears in Israel benefits or harms Austria. This has been a targeted provocation because the Federal Chancellor is not naïve! The Federal Chancellor knows where he speaks and what he says! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] If I may just point out one last thing: The two-time postponement of the ratification of the Headquarters Convention with the EU Monitoring Centre against Racism and Xenophobia by the government groups is also a provocation. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs Winkler is also a provocation!]] Someone may feel hurt or offended by what Mrs Winkler said. But, Mrs Partik-Pablé, the point is not whether you are offended, but the point is what the interests of Austria are. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] High house! The interest of Austria is that Europe will not be "gone again" to take a stand against Austria, because we in the Committee on Foreign Policy have decided by a majority to do something impossible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The impossible behavior was on the part of Mrs Winkler!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! We are willing to argue on essential issues that serve Austria's interests, on your side and with you, not against you, but at your side for Austria's interests, but we must point out that there are also serious concerns, because it is about saying and preventing Austria's interests from being damaged by such things.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12262	The next speaker is Mr Jung. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12284	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me get to my colleague, Mr One. He asked the question more or less directly: What does that bring us with the Beneš decrees? What are you doing? – Foreign policy is not primarily a moral matter, but it also has a moral component, Mr President. And this brings us back to the previous debate, in which, among other things, social-democratic politicians, integrative social-democratic politicians such as Bauer, Koref, even clenchers or sharps for some statements, because of some – I would rather say – confessions have been brought into the vicinity of a system with which none of the parties here in this House wants to have anything to do with. On the other hand, one might also call people like Gschnitzer, Koren or Krainer, who have made some confessions far after the Second World War, and I think there should be a word of the Styrian old country captain Krainer who said: The word "German" is not a political statement, but a confession to a large ethnic and linguistic community. - Quote. This quote could be taken into consideration in this context. We have a responsibility for minorities in these areas from this time on, and this responsibility at least does not leave us free, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: I can imagine that!]] That is what you can imagine calmly, Mr President. There are people who have historical awareness – even in terms of responsibility, even in terms of the negative part, and there are people who are only destructive and nothing else. [[Abg. Oils: The wrong thing!]] These are the ones who, for example, also have lubrications, pictures and so on in front of me in front of the house. [[Abg. Ollinger: Do you want to put this in my mind?]] – This is a development that you are promoting and for which you find today unfortunately and unhappy – many social democrats are not happy about it – allies at SPÖ. But this is a dangerous development which leads to the First Republic, which hopefully most do not want to do so, the vast majority in this House do not want, Mr Cot. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Colleagues One of them spoke of Mrs Winkler earlier and that we would be provoking towards her. Mrs Winkler enjoys the right of guest here in Austria, but the right of guest can also be misused if one refuses dialogue, in a form that is really inappropriate. That is also clearly stated here! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Now directly to foreign policy. Foreign policy is certainly primarily a form of representation of national interests, that also says Henry Kissinger and thus describes this area very well. Relations with the EU Member States and also with the EU institutions are therefore still part of foreign policy, although there is a different quality of relations between these countries and us as countries outside the EU and also changed tasks. At present, we are in a phase of institutional reform, and it is therefore the very heart of foreign policy, which is also the most concerned of our foreign ministry. I would therefore like to focus specifically on this representation of Austrian interests. The summit of Nice is at the doorstep. In view of this, but perhaps also under the pretext of Easter enlargement, it is a matter of streamlining the institutions. In this case, streamlining means reducing the number of representatives and the weights of the current Member States in order to create room for the new – a process that is logical in itself and also necessary in some areas, as long as not vital national interests are included among the wheels. It is about the definition of these interests. We must also take into account Austrians, but also the other small ones in the EU, our negative experiences in the last three-quarters of the year; Experience with the Community, which we have had in recent months and which has not always been the best. In addition to the largely undisputed areas such as water, energy, extension of contracts, transit, as far as it has not already been delivered, we believe that the area of foreign and asylum law is one of the inalienable national rights. The EU's eastern peripheral states and, with our over 1,200 kilometres of border length, we are in a very different and much more problematic situation from those of Portugal and the like. We cannot expect these states to keep a primary eye on our interests. It therefore applies to us and to the future development of the EU: We want a state government and not the state. We want the preservation of national sovereignty and the transfer of rights only where it is meaningful and necessary. We want regionalisation and subsidiarity. This also means the return of various rights to Austria. We certainly do not want Commissioners to be a government either. They are only the top officials and subject to the will of governments. And we will have to have a debate on the limits of this Community. Now one more word on the human rights question already mentioned. Let's remember: The candidate countries, including the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia, have parts of the legislation – of which, I would not say, governments, it was essentially regime, because there were no really free elections there – in their legal provisions which are unbearable for us. And if these governments are told today that they have no validity, we just have evidence from the last few days that they exist that they are very likely to be part of the current legal settlement. That can and must not be! In this attitude, we must be firm and firm, otherwise the same thing happens to us that happened in the nuclear power plant question, namely that we are later to be accused of that, you should have said that a few years earlier. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is precisely what we are saying, and this cannot be interpreted negatively as representing our interests. Mrs. Federal Minister! In the coming weeks and months, you will be waiting for hard and tiring negotiations. We trust that you are consistent and, if necessary, persistently representing the Austrian interests. We wish Nice a good conclusion, but the abandonment of vital Austrian interests would not be a good conclusion! Also concessions have their limits, and before we give up important positions, we have to be able to say no, even if we are the only ones. We hope, however, that this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12375	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12396	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brigadier Jung's message is likely to have arrived at the EU Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia. Obviously in this House and with this new majority, it is possible that a high officer of the Army News Office addresses an unscathed threat to a high representative of the European Union. Now I'm problemizing the first. Beyond foreign policy, it is worth discussing whether it is compatible and compatible with parliamentarism and also with Parliament's control function that a senior officer of a military intelligence service in the Committee on the Interior, the Stapo Committee, the National Defence Committee and its subcommittee for the control of this army news office is sitting. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that it is unacceptable and incompatible that the inspectors, who have so far prevented any control, suddenly begin to control Parliament, in its most confidential committees. And then it is only logical that the brigadier of the Army News Office then also explains foreign policy, because it has already adopted trains that there and in related institutions are quite open to understanding and consent. Now I'm coming back to Mrs. Winkler. Everyone who deals only with the Foreign Policy Committee knows that the government parties – first the EIA, then the Freedom Party – have built up a junkim and have sent a clear signal to the European Union, which is about: If you are not – and this is called dialogue! – if you don’t act like we want, the third, the fourth and the fifth times the office agreement will be postponed and postponed. – This is foreign policy. One takes a natural agreement and begins to put pressure on independent and respected representatives of the European Union. It's not a dialogue, it's a necessity! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The guest's right includes two types: certain basic standards of good behaviour, which one expects from the guest, a certain sensitivity, but even more important and much clearer are the demands on the role of the host. And a host who says: If you don't talk to me in the mouth, you'll be invited, then you're standing in front of the house and then there's no office deal!, that's not a host, but it deserves a completely different conceptual qualification. Mrs. Federal Minister! That is why we would have expected you to get up and say: Stop it! Let us ensure that without further delays and without further abuse of these Causa, the office agreement will be signed! - It's over. Why is there no such explanation? Why is there no such demand? Why Saying You don't: It's enough now! I expect that the decisions will finally be taken and the signatures will be covered!? – Mrs Federal Minister! Today's debate is an opportunity to recapture this failure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In principle, the development of Austrian foreign policy: I do not have the impression that the Austrian foreign policy is being designed by the Foreign Minister. I have the impression of great political uncertainty in the design of roles. I have the impression that the official representation of Austrian foreign policy has long been a playing force for completely different interests in the Federal Government. The game with sanctions, dealing with enlargement of the East, dealing with institutional reform and dealing with European security policy has nothing to do with clear political objectives. Coalition tactics are everywhere behind them, pure coalition tactics, small money to maximize domestic crisis profits. We are in a critical situation. I do not have the impression that the majority in the Austrian People's Party is interested in making something like the spearhead of nationalist resentments in the European integration process. And remember this strange meeting several months ago, to which Federal Chancellor Schüssel invited and to which Stoiber, Václav Klaus, Džurinda and the Hungarian representative, Orban, came. In this context, declarations have been made as follows: We must fight against a Europe that abuses its power vis-à-vis the democratically elected President Miloševic, and and – political statements of the most peculiar kind, which have not even been rejected in one line by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and can be summarized in a sentence across all language barriers: There are political forces in Bavaria, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia, in Hungary and in Austria who want to exploit national and nationalist resentments against the European integration process. The Government It represents the danger of becoming a catalyst and organizer of this resentment within the European Union. And that is why the applause of Berlusconi, from the Lega North to Viktor Orban, comes from forces who want to benefit from the fears of the European integration process for their political strategies. And at that, Austria plays and plays Your Federal Government, Mrs. Federal Minister, a key role! Now I'm asking: Insert What Is that what you're looking for? Of course, the lupen-clean freedom policy is. This includes the game with popular surveys and referendums! Since a popular vote is inflamed, first at the sanctions, then at the Easter enlargement, and in between, a cultural building is done. This blind legal-conservative approach to populism in this Republic is becoming increasingly a trademark of European and foreign policy. Mrs. Federal Minister! I don't think you're responsible for that. They have simply and simply never had political control over this process. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Zindling with popular votes!]] There would be completely different options for an Austrian foreign policy. Austria could – and we should never forget that – be a respected member of the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But that's what you're preventing!]] Austria could be a pioneer country of democratic reforms, social reforms and environmental reforms in the European Union. Austria could be a country that is careful to take its own, independent, exciting and innovative paths in international security policy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: If you didn't light!]] Instead, Austria pursues a security policy, in which, unlike Sweden or Finland, a Minister of Defence, in breach of the provisions of the Neutrality Act, takes an initiative to introduce assistance in the European Union, i.e. a future military block. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] That's it! And where is there a foreign minister who stands up and says: No, that's not the foreign policy line, no, that's not a European project. No, this is not a project that we are in the middle of Europe, I demand this and that instead, and I set marks as a foreign minister!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[New call of the abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] You have led us to the edge of Europe! Austria today is in a political periphery. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Austria is so popular that so many people want to migrate!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then why is there immigration?]] And as a great success to celebrate that you are allowed to go back to group photos today, at best the photographers will be pleased. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it was your only goal to somehow come back to the group photos, I say: Congratulations, Mrs. Federal Minister, you did it! The price paid by Austrian foreign policy for the government, government education and government policy is already high enough. A turn in Austria will therefore be a turning point in international politics. And I am deeply convinced, after everything that happened this year, that a change of government is the prerequisite for a respected new Austrian foreign policy. The country would have deserved it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12571	Mr Jung spoke in favour of an actual correction. In § 58 para. 2 GOG says: start with the playback of the claim to be corrected. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12592	Mr Pilz has previously claimed that a senior officer of military intelligence is in this House, who is in the committees – and then he added: Intelligence Subcommittee, Internal Subcommittee and so on – sits down. This is not true. I have already repeatedly pointed out at this place that I have never worked in a secret service and that I have not worked in the Austrian intelligence service for years. I explained all of this in the presence of Mr Pilz. His behavior, therefore, cannot be due to ignorance, but can only be an evil distortion of the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12643	The next speaker was Mrs Gatterer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12661	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! To my previous speaker only two remarks: He said "flame" with a popular vote. – To do this, I have to say: The last party in this House who called for a referendum – I would not say, "flamed" – was not to be found on this side, but on this one, and that is the budget accompanying law. [[towards ÖVP and the liberals]] [[towards SPÖ]] Secondly, You know, Mr Pilz, you are a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and you have certainly received the invitation for tomorrow: A item on the agenda is the Presidency Agreement, which will be decided tomorrow. So much for my colleague Pilz. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mrs. Winkler must come as well!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: She's coming too!]] The year 2000 was one of the most difficult years in foreign policy: sanctions, but also the OSCE Presidency, and preparations for enlargement. Thank you, Mrs. Minister, with your officials. You've dealt with these obstacles very well. With the sanctions, it is sometimes so that when you talk to Austrians, you feel that something is left in the heart and mind of the Austrians. But I'm confident that this will get better soon. And I think we are all very happy that it has improved at least with the Foreign Ministers, because some at the beginning of the year have still doubted that they will participate in the OSCE Ministerial Conference. It is mainly due to your work, Mrs. Federal Minister, that everyone in Austria has been a guest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This week the world was a guest in Vienna. I think it was also a special award that a further democratic start was made on this anniversary – 25 years after the Helsinki Final Act – that Yugoslavia could be welcomed again in the round. Mrs. Federal Minister! Their efforts in connection with the Balkans and the Caucasus are accepted, highly praised and respected by all. Personally, I am very sorry that the excellent preparations by you and your officials for the better protection of children in the war zone and in the case of conflict have failed at the Veto of Moscow. It's very sad for me. I am surprised that the previous speakers did not address this, because there are at least 300,000 children and young people who fall into wars and civil wars every year, and we must make every effort to comply with the UN Additional Protocol on Children's Soldiers. I would ask you to give him your full support in the future, so that we can move forward in this area. It is not only positive to note that Austria signed the Additional Protocol, but also that the Criminal Court in The Hague now suspects the use of child soldiers as war crimes. This is at least a first correct approach. The second thing I would like to thank you and your officials very much is the initiative you have taken at this conference, which provides a comprehensive mandate to combat trafficking in human beings. I believe that this is a point that must also be taken out in this debate. Trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery, and trafficking in human beings is a shame to civilized countries. Trafficking in human beings is a gross violation of human rights and human dignity, and trafficking in human beings is in particular a form of violence against women. Among those affected by trafficking there are many women and girls who are abused and, in part, forced to prostitute. I would like to mention a few figures: According to the 1997 figures available to me, 175 000 women and girls from Central and Eastern Europe and the new independent states have been victims of trafficking in human beings and have been further traded especially in OSCE countries. I think that's what we need to make ourselves aware of. After all, 500 000 women today are abused for sexual exploitation and prostitution. It must also be said that according to calculations, the organized crime with this shameful kind of human trafficking is already making a profit of 7 billion dollars. This profit is already higher than that in drug trafficking. You really need to underline this initiative. It is about recognizing and combating this common problem, stressing the responsibility of the States and examining their laws on how to prevent this trafficking of human beings. This initiative is intended to protect women in particular and also to be seen as victims, which in part is still not the case with us, and above all, the field presence of the OSCE is to be appreciated. It is very necessary, as you have pointed out, that there is a need for improved cooperation between the OSCE, the UN, the EU, the Interpol and, of course, the Council of Europe, because only then will we achieve something together and create an awareness of curtailing these crimes. On the subject of Council of Europe, I would like to make a very personal request to you again. Yesterday it was read in the newspaper that there is now the approval of active death aid in Holland. You know that in the Council of Europe I have written a report on this, which has been adopted by a large majority and which is based on four pillars: Expansion of palliative medicine, expansion of patient rights, expansion of the hospice movement, but an absolute no for active death aid. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This report was adopted in the Assembly and is now in the Committee of Ministers. He needs a strong lobby among your colleagues, and that's why I ask you. It might also be a merit of Austria for the further development and differentiation of human rights if we were to take a step forward here. It would be urgently necessary for us to be aware of the importance of the problem we face in this context, because everyone has the right to protect his life, but that there should be no claim to the opposite of being killed. I think that's something very important, and I ask you to do everything you can. I ask you to also work with your colleagues in this regard to ensure that human rights are respected and guaranteed. Let us also leave the people who are seriously ill, or dying people their dignity and their right to life!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12735	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12753	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yesterday during the budget debate on economic and external trade, we have already discussed various problems in the Middle East. I would like to address this in the light of what I read in a report on the Middle East, such as: However, compared with the 1980s, the region lost its importance. . We know that the oil plays a major role and that it naturally results in external trade. But what I want to do is – we discussed this briefly after the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs – that Austrian foreign policy is evident in the Arab area. The name Kreisky still has a very good sound in these countries. In the last two or three years, due to various other important activities, such as OSCE – I know what this means, Austrian Presidency in the second half of the year – we should intensify somewhat delayed contacts. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Kurzmann.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I know your particularly positive attitude to the Arab countries, I told you, but I do not agree to stress: The ambassadors of these countries expect us to become active again, especially now, given the again extremely dramatic development in Israel and Palestine. Today – and I thank you for this – despite all the hecticism, you have received a high representative of the Arab-Austrian society in Vienna and have renewed the willingness to continue to support Palestine, the Palestinian people as in the past. You have put a number of projects in view. Thank you very much! Already the previous governments have supported the Palestinians. I can only remember the hospital in Jerusalem, and I very much hope that we will succeed in continuing to be active. This is not only a humanitarian question – I say it openly as an economist – but it is also an economic question. The Austro-Arab society has, as you have said, tried to involve all the parties represented in Parliament, including the social partners, including the economy, and I am glad that we have succeeded in recent years and are now able to put this question out of dispute. In this context, there is another question, and I have already mentioned this: What is the Austrian position on the embargo against Iraq? They know that we have managed to win twice under extremely difficult conditions 80 Austrian doctors to drive to Iraq – and that is anything other than a holiday trip with God – to relieve the incredible suffering of children and infants there. This has found resonance far beyond Iraq, and we will continue this initiative. I welcome the restoration of our message in Baghdad, it may expand our activities. Some sentences on the EU enlargement process; we also talked about them yesterday in the context of the economic debate. As the recent visit of the French President has shown, the bilateral relations and the intergovernmental atmosphere to individual EU countries are still not as we all wish. I am pleased when you report that you have succeeded in re-establishing Terrain in the framework of the bilateral active visit diplomacy, as you call it, and I hope it will succeed even more. At the summit of the Heads of State in Nice from 7 to 9. It will not only be possible to address important technological issues such as weighting of votes, number of Commissioners, majority voting and the like, but it will be an essential reason for these adaptation negotiations, as we know, also for the planned enlargement of the European Union by new members. 13 countries have sought admission. The EU enlargement is – we know – a decided thing, it will come, and that is good. Importantly, especially for Austria – you have pointed out, and I have statistics on the last two years – is the great economic importance in Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland that Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia and the Czech Republic have with regard to the purchasing power that flows to Austria. On the other hand, we must, of course, also see the concerns of the population; they have already been mentioned in detail by colleagues. Important at this stage of the negotiations seems to me to be the fact that Austrian policy remains intact and is being intensified at a bilateral level. Meetings with Chirac, Schröder, or whatever the individual Heads of State and Government may call, contact talks at the diplomatic level, at expert level are important because Austria is only able to articulate and enforce its concerns in this way. On this occasion, I would like to thank everyone involved here very much. These conversations are important, very important, but it is crucial to have personal contacts – as you have mentioned yourself – in order to achieve the often different positions of the Austrians. We all hope that the Nice Summit will be a success. It must be a success! The faster and the deeper the negotiations bring results, the better for Austria, for Europe. – Mrs Federal Minister! We wish you and your employees every success!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12824	Mr Kurzmann is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12845	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the current occasion, I would like to address relations with the Czech Republic and Slovenia at the beginning of my remarks. Yesterday, the Sudeten German national team in Parliament has a petition against the illegals of human rights and, as I have passed my racist Beneš decrees and Avnoj laws. This petition is based on more than 24 000 signatures handed over to the first President of this House, Dr Fischer. I would also like to present a leaflet to you, Mrs Bundesminister, and seek to continue to point out clearly the Czech and Slovenian laws of injustice and their consequences in the future. [[The speaker presented a document to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ferrero-Waldner, who is sitting on the government bank.]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Czech Republic and Slovenia, with their infamous Beneš decrees and Avnoj laws, are sad examples of the fact that abortion and expropriation laws are still in force, or of how each civilized society actually speaks hohn. I don't understand how you can defend something like that. It's embarrassing to me. With the Czech Beneš decrees and the former Yugoslav Avnoj laws, the genocide of the Sudeten Germans was justified, but also the extermination and expulsion policy against the under-steers, Gottscheers, Donauschwaben and non-communist Slovenian domobrants or royal Serbian Chetniks. Such laws are absolutely incompatible with a democratic community of values, according to our conviction – and I say very consciously as a liberal. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to focus briefly on two further priorities, namely foreign culture policy, which is an important part of Austrian foreign policy, and, if it still allows time, briefly with the Nice Summit. On foreign culture policy: The task of foreign culture policy is to have a lasting and favourable impact on the image of Austria abroad. The intermediaries of Austrian culture abroad are currently primarily the cultural institutions under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in many cities, but also the cultural attachés in the embassies do valuable mediating work in the field of culture. I am not the opinion of the Burgtheater director Bachler, who in a certain self-esteem on Saturday, 25th. November, in which "Press" has performed – I quote –: "The Burgtheater operates the only relevant foreign policy and should perhaps receive special funding from the Foreign Office." - Quote. Such expressions can be seen under the motto: "Pockets belong to the craftsmanship." But I don't really think they'll benefit if they're brought to the public like this, even the Burgtheater. In the future, it will certainly be necessary, at a time when financial resources are becoming scarceer, to be more focused than previously. A reorientation of the Austrian foreign culture policy to the Balkans is also appropriate in order to further support the normalisation and democratisation process in this area. From a liberal point of view, Mrs Bundesminister, it is important to engage in spaces and areas with which historical references also connect us and which are also geographically closer to us than, for example, far away Nicaragua. The successor states of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy should continue to be our natural partners in a Europe that is growing together in the future. Seven Austrian libraries already exist in the Balkans, and as you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have done, three more will be added in the near future. Now a few brief remarks on the Nice Summit. At the COSAC conference in Versailles, which was in mid-October, I was impressed by how clearly French Foreign Minister Védrine represented the French positions. It was an openness one would often wish for by other politicians – I think here primarily of Günter Verheugen. Védrine has made it clear to the EU candidate countries that it depends on them and on their fulfilment of the acquis communautaire, when the next round of enlargement can take place. I wish you, Mrs Federal Minister, for the Nice Summit the tenacity you have proved in your office so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12938	The next speaker was Mrs Jäger. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12960	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, you said earlier that the OSCE Summit was not a failure. I think, however, that you too have been very disappointed that it has not succeeded in making a compromise on a joint declaration, although, as I know, everyone – including the officials – has really tried to do so. This is therefore very unfortunate because it will not result in a return of the OSCE delegation to Chechnya. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner.]] - Maybe you can still comment on this. It would be very important for the development in Russia that relations with Chechnya be re-established in an honest way. Unfortunately, this has not succeeded. I am particularly pleased that the issue of the protection of children in armed conflicts has been taken up and the issue of trafficking in human beings has also been discussed. I think these are topics that will have to be dealt with even more intensively in all international bodies in the future. Even more effective measures are needed in this regard to prevent children from being abused in wars, in armed conflicts, so to speak. I would like to address another point, namely the head office agreement of the body for the observation of racism and xenophobia. On the basis of my experience in the last committee meetings, I must say that I am not sure that this will actually be decided tomorrow. I hope so. I think it was not very wise to link this agreement with the presence of the representative of the office there. Mrs. Minister! I would like to refer once again to development cooperation. I have here a petition with your signature, which you signed here a year ago and in which you note that bilateral project and programme assistance should not be shortened but, on the contrary, gradually expanded. For four years, these funds are to be increased by 250 million each, as long as there are two out of a development billion. – We all know that we no longer have development billions, but that in our budget only 745 million are now available for development cooperation, and that is very, very unfortunate. We are one of the final lights of the EU. But we are not only concerned with the financial issues relating to development cooperation, but we are also concerned that we can deal with the issues, the content of which can also be dealt with at parliamentary level. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm trying to make sure we get this three-year programme. We know that it has already been imposed in the newly established Advisory Council, but it has not yet been made available to us here in Parliament. I'm asking you that we really get it. I would like to ask you for another opinion. It is not only the foreign office that has been cut down, but the argument that expenditure is being saved on the other side of it I must resist: There are areas where there is no saving! We have more expenditure on the military sector, we have additional expenditure in the field of agriculture, and that means that there are clear priorities for where to save. Parliament's resources are also cut short. I am thinking specifically of the International Service and I must say that cuts in this field of foreign policy cooperation, which is very important for Parliament, are not very useful. Another question on the Nice negotiations: I asked in the Committee on Foreign Affairs a question on Article 133, which regulates services and intellectual property in commercial law, and I know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs represents a different position when it changes the transition from unanimity to qualified majority. I ask you now, Mrs Federal Minister: Is there agreement between the Foreign Office and the Economic Office in this regard, and how does this agreement look? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13072	Mrs Jäger's motion for a resolution, tabled by Mrs Jäger, Mag. Lunacek and comrades are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13096	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As a developmental spokesperson of the ÖVP, I am very pleased that the emphasis already raised by the Federal Minister in the field of development policy has been achieved. It has succeeded in stabilizing a budget, which is not intoxicated, and in ending the downward trend in recent years. In 2001, a total of 930 to 970 million schillings are available for bilateral development cooperation, including the funding for the European Recovery Programme, taking into account the commitments. That's an amount you can work with. Although we are only in the lower field of the OECD, we have been able to continue to support development cooperation in the field of foreign affairs without any other important things. It is clear that, after this important budget consolidation, it is essential to increase the funds for development cooperation as well. We are now creating the scope for important projects in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Three-quarters of the world's population already live in developing countries today. In 20 years, only 12 percent of people will come from the rich countries of the world. Poverty, environmental destruction, war, mass emigration: All these are phenomena that do not stop before our borders. The funds we provide in Austria for development cooperation are not – I expressly stress – alms, but it is our vital interest to fight the problems at the root, to remove them from the soil and to combat poverty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's where a well-organised development cooperation begins. The financial possibilities of Austria may be limited today. [[Abg. Oils: Very limited!]] It makes sense, therefore, to focus on a few priority countries. Austria is. The eight priority countries receive a total of 40 percent of the development aid budget, the 13 cooperation countries receiving 25 percent. In this context, I should like to see development cooperation at EU level coordinated even more. It seemed clear to me that every country would be looking for a few priority countries and that they would not necessarily overlap or cover themselves. Thus, the same resources could achieve even greater efficiency. The last good third of the budget will be spent on co-financing, training in Austria, public relations, education work of NGOs, consulting, logistics, evaluation and individual strategically important projects in other countries. I would like to address two of these areas briefly. First: Students from developing countries. Unfortunately, Mrs. Lunacek is no longer here. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Oh yes!]] It is particularly important to me to note that it is a common concern to all of us that as many young people as possible from developing and emerging countries in Austria receive good training. This is a very direct form of development aid. These people then return to their country and provide the best help there. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: With what money?]] For most of them – perhaps with the exception of diplomatic children – the payment of study contributions would indeed be a major obstacle. For this reason, it was decided that students from developing countries, as well as those from emerging countries, will be reimbursed the study contributions. Refunds are made within four weeks. This seems quite reasonable to me and is not an insurmountable obstacle. This is a regulation that makes great sense and has been taken for it – and now is different from the original proposal in which developing countries were completely excluded – because students from emerging countries also wanted to be involved. I believe that this has found a very useful way to do the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Convention refugees, graduates of cross-border mobility programmes, students from countries, who are also Austrians, will not pay any study contributions at all, so that a total of around 30 000 foreign students will not have to pay about 28 000 contributions. I therefore believe that a boundless scientific and knowledge community through Austria will certainly be set no limits. The second essential point for me is the developmental educational work, which was spent by 40 million in 2001. This means that, compared with 2002, a 10% reduction had to be made. However, I would like to stress that last year the Minister of State agreed with the organisations concerned to divide the originally planned 20% reduction for two years. This happened in agreement and did not mean that any programs and projects had to be stopped. That therefore seems to me reasonable, although not desirable. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I can say that despite the necessary budget consolidation, the development aid budget is one that will once again be able to implement many important projects and projects. However, I would urge once again that a massive increase be made after the budget consolidation has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13178	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13199	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For two months, the international community has been witnessing escalating violence in the Middle East. This violence daily calls for the dead on the Palestinian and Israeli side. It dominates aggression and hatred. Relations between the Palestinians and Israelis are at a low point. In the unrest in Gaza, a twelve-year-old Palestinian boy was killed by the bullets from the gun of an Israeli soldier in his father's arms. Aggression, violence and hatred not only keep this region in breath, but the whole world. As a result, the dream of a near peace dies. For many years, many politicians, many committed people in Israel and Palestine have been working to reach a point where historical compensation can be discussed. It was many years of heights and depths. Then came the Oslo negotiations, and in many people hope was awakened. Ladies and gentlemen! Today stones fly again; Rubber shots hurt people; Rockets and sharp bullets kill children. In the crossfire of these fires are both Israelis and the Palestinian people. Whether we see the pictures of the Lynch murder of two Israeli reservoirs in Ramallah today or the Palestinian boy who in Gaza City and his father sought in vain protection behind a garbage can – violence is again the language of two peoples in the same country. According to the UN, the economic damage of the new conflict, which has lasted for two months in the Palestinian territories, amounts to about 426 million dollars. 900 000 Palestinians – which is almost a third of the population in the autonomous areas – have lost their jobs in Israel or are currently without income due to the blockades, according to the UN. The spirit of hatred, laboriously kept under closure, is broken up again. The question of the survival of a tiny island of 5 million Jews in a sea of 100 million Arabs arises for the Israeli-Jewish people, whose accession is marked by the Holocaust. For the Arabs themselves, after several lost wars, the question of self-determination in their own home country, inherited by generations and tribes, grew in their culture, founded in their self-confidence. Israel is shooting at children, and the Palestinians release around 60 high-ranking terrorists, who planned the bloody attacks on Israeli buses in 1996 and themselves detonated them. These terrorists are now released from Palestinian prisons. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria was once a successful mediator in the Middle East. Austria was once a recognized advocate for international rights and human rights. It's not like this anymore. I really regret that. I therefore urge the Federal Government to urge first Israel and the Palestinians to refrain immediately from violence in the political debate, second, for a just peace that protects the life of the Israeli people and guarantees the same right to Palestinians, thirdly, within the framework of the European Union and the United Nations for an initiative to re-establish the peace process within the meaning of UN resolutions and for the principle adopted at the Madrid Conference in 1991. To use "land against peace" taking into account, in particular, the following principles: withdrawal of Israel from the territories occupied in 1967; creation of a Palestinian state in these areas; there can be lasting peace only if the Palestinians receive a genuine decent state; recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of two states: West Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine; Retire all Israeli settlers and soldiers from the occupied territories. While the international community has also criticised Israeli settlement policy, it has not been able to effectively implement this criticism. These two peoples, who have had to make a lot of things happen in their history, are mature for understanding, and their children are mature for peace. For the resumption of the peace process in the Middle East, we wish for a stronger commitment from the Austrian Federal Government. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Let us help them, strengthen them and support them, especially those political forces on the Israeli and Palestinian sides, who are committed to peace and are also committed to dialogue and cooperation. A child – whether Israeli or Palestinian – is not born with hatred, he is taught this hatred first. We must do everything we can to create peace and then secure this peace!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13308	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinzl by Mrs Cap and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Ferrero-Waldner spoke. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13333	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few clarifications: First: Don't worry, I already know where I am leading the foreign policy of Austria, including the strategic partnership, where there is, by the way, a great interest of the partner countries – I can confirm – and that was also doubted. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Other point: Middle East. I can say that I have always known myself very much about the Middle East question. I was also a state secretary in the various countries and did not lose this interest. I was therefore at the EU-Mediterranean Council in Marseille, among other things, and I also spoke there with almost all the foreign ministers. At the OSCE Ministerial Meeting, I have now held my own work with the cooperation partners from the Mediterranean region, and also with a view to being involved. I would like to point out that in the European Union, at the last General Affairs Council, we made a very important statement on the peace process, which was very balanced. I think it is very essential to be very balanced, especially in the Middle East, because, of course, we are only able to bring the two sides of the conflict back to the negotiating table when it comes to balance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To AVNOJ and Beneš, I would just like to say that, as regards Beneš, general bilateral expert discussions are generally accepted by the Czech Republic in the framework of larger discussions. I think the same will happen very soon with Slovenia. That is to say, the strategy I have pursued seems to start. One word to the culture: The cultural institutions, as well as other cultural activities of our house, seem to me to be particularly important. It was mainly addressed in the Balkans. In addition to the strategic partnership, which will, of course, have a great deal to do with Central and Eastern Europe, we have set particular priorities in the Balkans. There are already Austrian libraries in Shkodra and Priština. New Austrian libraries are set up in Belgrade and Bitola. Exhibitions of national artists are planned, and we are trying to participate in the field of education by, for example, making a schoolbook action. This means, of course, that we benefit our culture in the course of this priority action of Austrian foreign policy. To the OSCE: Please, that was obviously misunderstanding. The return of the assistant group to Chechnya, which has not been accepted by Russia so far, was addressed in a very detailed bilateral discussion with Russian Foreign Minister Ivanov. He once again accepted that next week a group of experts would drive to Moscow – not to Chechnya, as the newspapers have reported falsely – in order to hopefully now negotiate the issue of security arrangements in Moscow. This question of Chechnya was one of the most difficult questions in consensus and in negotiations with the other – not with the Austrians; I would also like to have clarified this. I would just like to say, on Article 133, which you, Mrs Jäger, have referred to: This is an extremely comprehensive contract article. It contains a lot of detailed questions on the rules governing the Union's external economy, including intellectual property and copyright issues. In particular, France has strong reservations against majority voting. Chirac also stressed this in Vienna. That is, these are questions that can only be solved in Nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13396	Mrs Jäger spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Madam Member, you are aware of the provisions of § 58 para. 2 GOG. Please start by playing the facts you would like to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13420	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs Hakl claimed that the downward trend of the EZA budget in recent years could be stopped. I'm actually correcting: The downward trend in the bilateral development cooperation budget has only begun when the EIA was no longer ready to adopt a common budget with the SPÖ, and has subsequently formed a government with the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13456	Mr Bösch, the next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13477	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed Mr One's statement, one must be surprised to note that the SPÖ seems to have no interest in the fact that the smaller member countries within the EU prevail, that it does not think it is right that the current Federal Government should enter into strategic partnerships with the candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and that the SPÖ has a very selective relationship with human rights. Mrs. Minister! I'll advise you: Just do the opposite as you have said in your previous statements! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The forthcoming EU Council in Nice will be crucial in the institutional reform process; many of my previous speakers have already responded. It will be important for the smaller Member States to ensure their representation within the Union in this institutional reform. If you are critically persecuting statements from leading politicians of the larger countries of Europe – and we should do so – then you have to say: It's still taking care of the place. The second area, which is essentially to be discussed, is the point of Easter enlargement. As part of the enlargement of the East, ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government is doing exactly what it does in other policy areas: It fulfils the Government Agreement. And in the Government Convention, both parties, ÖVP and FPÖ, have clearly defined: The Federal Government will take into account all Austrian concerns and competition interests, such as job, environmental and nuclear safety, agriculture, transport and other open problems in relation to individual candidate countries, for the enlargement process. In order to facilitate mutual adjustment and conversion difficulties, it will take into account the necessary flexibility by means of review clauses, different integration speeds and sufficient transitional periods. Enlargement – which has also been agreed – requires careful and thorough preparation. This, ladies and gentlemen, includes certain things to be considered. It will have to be clear that, as an essential condition for accession, it will be necessary to meet the criteria, as they were essentially laid down in Copenhagen. In order to ensure the stability of the Austrian labour market, it is necessary to agree on long transitional periods and in the border regions programmes to support particularly affected industries. In this respect, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation has already joined the public with proposals, and it is also particularly important that the interests of the Austrian border regions will not be forgotten. That is why it is also legitimate for the liberals in the Burgenland to try, by means of a popular survey, to try to help them achieve the necessary breakthrough. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A special focus will also have to be placed on compliance with European social and environmental standards, and it will be necessary to continue to operate that early decommissioning of reactors is still possible. The Federal Government will also use – and this is agreed – discrimination against discrimination based on national origin and language ownership in the event of asset restitution and privatisation. It is also about restoring the rights of the displaced Altösterreicher German language. Mr Kurzmann has already responded. Ladies and gentlemen! Both government parties feel bound to the Government Convention, and the Foreign Minister's policy is another step in the implementation of this policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13544	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13565	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I am very pleased that students from developing countries and emerging countries will not pay any tuition fees. That means they have to pay them, but get these fees back after four weeks. I don't know what's behind that. I think you might still be able to save them this bureaucratic obstacle. In this budget debate, I would like to draw attention to the role of Austria in south-eastern Europe, and I would like to express that the joy over the return of Yugoslavia to the OSCE and also to the UN was very great. This is, of course, connected with the hope that a new peaceful era in south-eastern Europe will be set in motion for this beginning or beginning democratic set-up. The Zagreb Summit was also an important signal to the countries of south-eastern Europe that the European Union is serious with the integration efforts. Although we wish for something else, the phenomenon of nationalism is still present. Changes are only very slow, especially the reduction of old resentments. This is a very difficult and painful process. An important engine for social change will be economic development. The reconstruction will certainly take decades, and international aid is certainly needed. However, I believe that massive international assistance will also be necessary to take decisive steps against the no-future perspective. This no-future perspective, in particular, paralyses youth in this field, and threatens to see a departure of youth abroad, which can be seen as a escape from unemployment, from the prospectlessness and desperation of their living conditions. International Bosnia-Expert and Bosnian Commissioner Wolfgang Petritsch, for example, estimates that 60 percent of young people want to leave Bosnia because they do not see a perspective there. I believe that this country flight would also have fatal consequences for the future of this region. Europe needs to help now, it has to help quickly. However, this assistance must not only be a distribution of alms, but must also include something like aid for self-help. We should critically ask whether the million euros which the Austrian Minister of Economic Affairs has pledged to the Yugoslav President on Monday can actually be called such an aid. A first quick aid is important, but in the future it should be the development of concrete projects and concrete assistance, particularly in the field of education. We have heard that the School Book Action has obviously already started. But that shouldn't be the only thing. I would also be interested in what further concrete activities are meant if the Federal Chancellor said on Monday that now the words "acts" should follow. I would like to see more information from the government and the opposition in this regard. How could such concrete Austrian aid projects now look like for this region? – Of course, a roof above the head and basic care are very important, but as soon as these basic needs are satisfied, the work of consciousness and, above all, education will be extremely important in order to build new identities and solve old enemy images. Education and knowledge are not for nothing the most important building blocks of civil society. I think that a future peaceful living together of nationalities requires new images in the minds of the political leaders, the intellectuals, but above all the citizens, the youth and the children. This is a very important approach. I very much hope that Austria will cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13619	Mr Zernatto has been mentioned as the next speaker. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13641	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that Mr Bösch referred in great detail to the content of the Government Agreement on Enlargement Policy. The extent of this part of the Government Convention alone shows the importance of enlargement by this Federal Government. However, this becomes even more evident in view of the policy carried by our Minister of State. Above all, it speaks again and again of the balance that is needed not only in this, but especially in this case, in order to be actually successful. Ladies and gentlemen! Enlargement policy in Europe is ultimately peace policy, just as foreign policy and European policy as a whole are future policies. This seems to me to be important and crucial, because in many discussions – no matter where they are held – one sometimes feels that it is about solving an economic problem, solving ethnic problems and solving past problems. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is simply too short, that awareness needs to be made even more pronounced, and that, as elected representatives of the people, we bear the responsibility to make the meaning of this process clear and clear to citizens. Our task is not to cultivate and to incite fears, but it is our task, within the framework of our policy, to eliminate the legitimate reservations and to bring closer to the citizen the opportunities arising from this development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I think you are a congenial representative of this kind of politics. I say this above all because, as part of my previous political function, I have always had to perform foreign policy agendas, especially in the Slovenian area. Slovenia is one of those countries that are trying to join the European Union. And in my opinion, this country is also a good example of the fact that enlargement will not be seen as a matter of course and will not go without problems. Above all, however, there must be awareness among us that enlargement policy does not mean that bitters are at the door to which we – that is, those who are already inside – generous alms, but that this is a give and take, and that the enlargement of the European Union à la longue, seen as a great opportunity, yes I think, represents the only opportunity for a permanently peaceful, economic and socially successful Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I have said that Slovenia is a good example, then it is because it already shows that the democratisation process has made considerable progress in this part of Europe. We are experiencing a lively democracy in this country, even if one does not always have the results of the elections, depending on the personal point of view. But, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this people has recognized what opportunities lie in democracy, and that this people have finally realized that they can also use these opportunities economically. If you look at Slovenia's economic development, you can see that this cannot be a reason why there are reservations against accession on our part. If one considers that more Austrians are already working in Slovenia than vice versa, then one might say that migration problems with regard to the candidate countries are probably not a reason for particular concern. Ladies and gentlemen! We have, however, a problem that concerns the past, and these are those unkind AVNOJ provisions that are actually wrong. Even if it is historical injustice, it remains wrong. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is not only an Austrian-Slovenian problem, but also a European one, because in the end these injustices cannot be reconciled with European law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I am very glad that there has not been any junkification in this respect, because if you want to achieve something for those who are ultimately the victims of this injustice, then you have to take measures that are promising success. To threaten and wake up with the junkimation pit would prevent à la longue from success for those for whom one wants to reach it. Mrs. Federal Minister! That is why I should like to congratulate you very warmly on what this question is about. I am convinced that we will be successful. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the discussion of the past few days always draws us back, that we will succeed and that we will not forget, before we deal with the past, what our real task is to deal with the future. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13732	The next speaker was Mrs Burket. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13753	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Articles 7 and 46 of the EU Treaty are to be recast and ensure that a fair legal procedure under Article 6 of the EU Treaty will take place in the future if such an event is given. With a certain amusement, I read in the paper that both Mr. Chirac and Mr. Schröder are currently in the wool and are fighting for supremacy, who will now be stronger in the new EU, i.e. in the new constellation. I must say to you that there was no more agreement on Austria than unwarranted sanctions, and I have the feeling that it will not be possible to find a longer period of time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] We also have an observation centre on racism and xenophobia. I will listen tomorrow with great interest to Mrs Beate Winkler and let me explain her view of things, because what we have heard so far from the press releases and from her statements does not really conclude that she is the right person to lead this office. In my opinion, someone with so little democratic understanding and even with simple and gripping manners is not really qualified for such a position. You'll hear what she has to say. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Considering the great effort of this office, how much the Austrian state has paid for it – still with the old government – and what privileges this office enjoys, you have to say that you can expect qualified staff to be found there, which is also doing appropriate work. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is inconceivable!]] – That is not inconceivable at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] I am also curious about the negotiations in Nice. I know that the Federal Minister will not pay attention to the calls made by Mr Pilz, who so much wishes her to tell us at last that we should be calm and that she should finally do what he believes she should do, and I know and am sure that the Minister of the Federal Government is very strict in respect of those points that concern the important priority interests of the Austrian people and the Austrian country, namely the spatial planning, water resources, the choice of energy, transport policy and asylum and immigration policy. There are no compromises, ladies and gentlemen. They seem to have forgotten that we are obliged to the Austrian. Even if the EU is very important and very necessary, and even if we make a clear and absolute commitment to it, each of us is ultimately committed to his own country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Only then do we go out and work together with the others. I would really like the Austrians to hear what Mr. Pilz gives of himself when he puts us that way every time... [[Abg. Oillinger: Your statements!]] - You can hear it. I believe that our people are very happy that they represent their interests. It's a shame to you, in your eyes we must apologize for even being there! But that is precisely because the Freedom Party is not acceptable to you at all. We see it differently. We see that we do good work here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We see that we are very much entitled to stand here and help make this country a good and flourishing country, to put the budget in order and to actually implement all the things in the Government Agreement. I believe that even if you still laugh so "love", Mr. Pilz. Our commitment is to work for Austria! If you fail to mention the term "national", I have to tell you: For me, the concept of "national" is a very essential and very important one, because it has to do with our people and with our country, and I feel obliged to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – You don’t, you just want the big broad mass that just can’t control is where everyone does what they want. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] We'd love to do it properly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We would have liked to know where it goes. We would like to see plans, objectives, budgets and frameworks by which we can guide and target people. That is our view, and that is what we are carrying on the outside. That's our idea of government. If Mr. Dr. One of Mrs. Federal Ministers says he wants to go to her side, I can understand this very well in two ways. You can't really blame him for this nostalgic thought. But I have to tell you honestly, I am glad that it is no longer the case that we are now more likely to be those who give the Minister what we wish for Austria. [[Abg. May. Posch: The Minister does not quite see this!]] And we are hopeful that she will actually do this in Nice.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13871	As the next speaker, Mr Bruckmann is speaking. - Please. Your speaking time is adjusted to 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13906	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Several decades of my life before becoming a pensioner's representative, I have dealt mainly with the analysis of long-term developments, but above all with their interactions in the demographic, economic, environmental and political field. Therefore, if I do not consider the importance of our foreign policy as much as questions such as the areas in which veto law is to be used in favour of a qualified majority decision – undoubtedly an important day-to-day policy question – or whether the position of the head of the Austrian cultural institute in Tehran should be re-occupied or not – a comparatively less important question – but rather of a fundamental point of view. In my view, the main objective of foreign policy should be to preserve and safeguard peace and prosperity in our country and within the framework of the international community, whereby I expressly want to know prosperity not only in a material sense but also as an individual consciousness to enjoy the limits of personal freedom given in a rule of law. From this main point of view, only a clear yes can be said for the forthcoming European Union enlargement. Let us look back at the brilliant idea of the founding fathers of the European Union not only to ensure peace in Europe through treaty works, but also indirectly through close cooperation between peoples and countries – an idea that has proved so convincing in half a century of the peaceful development of the Member States that it is also the right way to integrate those European countries that are not yet members of this Community. This half-century common history, the Hohes Haus, also offers lessons about how an expansion should take place if it is to be successful. Each wave of enlargement has preceded years of intensive negotiations and, in the interest of both sides, the transitional periods have been agreed in sensitive areas. Conversely, and all of us have experienced this, the dramatic integration of the GDR, so it was right to have used this historical window at the time, but it made clear those difficulties which would be inevitable to an even greater extent in the event of an overcrowding of other candidate countries, which are far more difficult for those countries themselves than for the current member countries of the European Union, including Austria. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] High house! In macro-historical perspective over the centuries, however, the emergence of the EU is only an episode. The increase in the number of means of communication has necessarily led to an ever-increasing increase in decision-making levels throughout the history of mankind. ==References====External links== Today, in many respects, national states have proved to be too small to deal with the problems of today. Consequences: an organic combination within the framework of the European Union. The fast-moving globalisation, the High House, will, in the coming decades, require the emergence of global decision-making bodies, as we already have some of them in the WTO, in the environmental conferences that have failed so far, in itself in the still quite toothless UN. To resist these developments would be foolish. For a small country like Austria, it is rather a question of making the best possible use of all the opportunities arising from these global developments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian Federal Government, the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is on the best track in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13969	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. Time left: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13991	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== This year, after 30 years of social-democratic government participation, a blue-black coalition took over government business for the first time in this Republic. The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a small place in relation to other ministries, but it should not be underestimated. What's so beautiful? - Small, but oho! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The budget for the foreign office is 932 million schilling. 532 million of them are used abroad, the rest being domestic. The Federal Foreign Office employs a total of 1,500 people. Ladies and gentlemen! What is actually the mission of an ambassador? – He or she represents Austria, represents Austria. Of course, he or she also has a role as a model – forgive me, Mrs. Minister, I see it as a manager – a salesman, a salesman in our country. You probably see this as different as a diplomat. He or she has to present Austria as best possible, so that not only the foreign investors get interested in Austria's economic location, but also the hospitality and beautiful country of Austria is informed so that as many people as possible can make vacations with us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The average earnings of a medium ambassador are 94 000 S gross. As has been said, the foreign office has around 1,500 employees, of whom 40 percent are domestically and 60 percent abroad. As a result of EU work, the percentage has shifted domestically. Certainly, the bulk of the costs must be equated with Brussels. The current system would certainly be improved and à la Bundesrat optimised. I am not going closer to that now, but the other ministers, like you, Mrs Foreign Minister, as well as the countries, know what I mean. It has also been working on optimizations and synergies since the start of the new government. There is a corresponding controlling report, Mrs Minister. This includes, for example, considerations regarding the personnel union of various ambassadors, such as bilateral ambassadors with UNESCO ambassadors in Paris. We have many ambassadors, like other countries: UN, EU, UNESCO, OSCE, Bilateral. Furthermore, housing and office mergers should also be considered. All environments will also be examined in the case of new representations. These will only take place if no other representation of other countries can take this over. The role of the Honorary Consul is also taken into account here and thus reduces staff and material expenditure. I am pleased, Mrs Minister, that the appropriate controlling will also help to improve the efficiency of your work and make the foreign office a corresponding contribution to the re-establishment of the budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] More flexibility and quality – these are the new ways of Austrian diplomacy for me. How did Jean Monnet say so well? "Whoever wants to defend our state must make him defendable." I call on all of you, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the Greens: Make a contribution to this so that our state is worthy of defense!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14076	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. The watch is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14097	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Most here know that the consolidation of the government budget is one of the main tasks of this federal government. The achievement of this objective must not, however, mean further disadvantage to the poorest of the poor. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Federal Minister has succeeded in preserving the bilateral programmes and project assistance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from further cuts. The importance of development cooperation is undisputed, and I am convinced that the planned measures will improve the quality of the services. The attempt to go new ways and involve civil society in development aid is a fundamental step forward. Since 1995 three instruments have been set up in this context: First: Increased cooperation with the European Commission. Secondly, Bilateral co-financing for smaller projects with non-governmental organisations. The financing will be shared in this model between the non-governmental organizations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the EU Commission. Thirdly, Private Economic Partnerships. The aim is to promote long-term cooperation between small and medium-sized Austrian enterprises and enterprises in developing countries. The main focus is on achieving the highest possible value added in the target country, job security and the use of local resources. In the context of bilateral co-financing, I would like to give an example from my own experience. We have succeeded in setting up a small hospital in Nigeria in cooperation with the Austrian Cartel Association, with the women's movement and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It should not be mentioned that the Catholic Church is already organizing funds to a similar extent as the public hand for development aid projects. As mentioned above, the planned efforts to concentrate funds on a few countries in need of development aid are in line with the EU. Cooperation with the relevant institutions of the Commission needs to be enhanced. This money, which we are giving to Brussels, is to be used efficiently. Thus, it would be desirable if Austrian expertise could be used to provide a qualified answer to the question of how Austria helps to combat poverty in the Third World. Again and again the question of the control of money flows arises. To this end, I would like to point out that every three years we are being examined by the OSCE and that ongoing observations are taking place. Finally, I would like to say that development cooperation is an important part of foreign policy. It is a social concern to raise and strengthen the awareness of this in Austria. We have the moral obligation to show solidarity. Therefore, adequate resources should also be available. I am particularly grateful to the Federal Minister for Development and support her struggle for more resources for development aid! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14159	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, want the final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the Advisory Group III of the Federal Proposal for 2001. This includes the capital 20 of the Federal Estimate in 310 of Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 370 of Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. In accordance with Article 55(5) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group III of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jäger, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lunacek and comrades on transparency in the content and financial focus of Austrian development cooperation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Cap and Mr Comrades on the initiative to resume the peace process in the Middle East. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14239	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Budget Committee for Reporting on Amendment 324/A by Mr Dolinschek, Dr. Stummvoll and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Night Heavy Labour Act and the Holiday Act. In December 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14269	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications were submitted from 334/A to 340/A. Questions 1605/J to 1626/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council for Tuesday, 5th. It will be convened in writing at 9 a.m. on December. This meeting is closed.
