ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1844	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to take the seats, and I will open the 23rd. Meeting of the National Council. For today's sitting, as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported. Gerhard Bauer, Mag. Lunacek and Mag. Chief. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1878	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldnerby Federal Minister Mag. Wilhelm Moltererress. Reported for business treatment: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1911	Mr President. In the course of yesterday's sitting, under the chairmanship of President Prinzhorn, there has been a certain practice of the appointment of an order, which we believe calls for to be dealt with. [[Abg. Gaugg: Let's have a session break!]] Mr Pilz has received an order for the remark that the FPÖ is a "full-racial" or "right-wing-extreme party". I note that it was not about a personal insult, but about the appreciation of a party. [[Abg. Aumayr: Oh, that's it! No, it doesn't matter!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] At the same time, Mr Haigermoser made the comments "Linksfascist" and "Oberstalinist" to the address of Mr Pilz in connection with this statement. There has been no call for order for this. I also note that Mr President Prinzhorn, as part of his statement of reasons for calling for the order, referred to the term "Nazist", "volnazist party" by Mr Pilz, but subsequently also to "vollassist party". I also note - Mr President, I think it is important to discuss these matters within the framework of a presidential one - Mr Gusenbauer's statement that the FPÖ was a partly racist or right-wing party with a call for order – not under your chairmanship – by Mr Fassleven. I believe that the occasion should be to think in principle about the practice of the issuing of orders, and I therefore urge a President.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1966	Mr Oellinger! It is beyond dispute that each member of the House has the right to make the request to give an order for certain expressions. This may be done after the Rules of Procedure during a meeting and at the beginning of the next sitting. In this respect, the demand for an order is justified. I also did not ignore the expressions "Linksfascist" and "Oberstalinist", but ask for understanding for the following: For many years, we have had the practice that, if non-compulsory, calls for orders are granted only by the President under whose chairmanship the event in question, which could lead to a call for order, has taken place. I spoke briefly with colleagues yesterday about the fact that we will remain in this practice in the future. That is why I do not now call for a call for interim calls, which have fallen under the chairmanship of Mr Prinzhorn. The fact that we are talking about this in the next presidency is free of any political group. Of course, I would be pleased if today's house sitting in this relationship would be less exciting than yesterday's, both as regards the choice of words and terminology. So, for this reason, not a call for order, but a referral to the Presidential Conference. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2002	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may refer to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The corresponding written notice was distributed. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2146	Mr Doris Buresund Comrades requested that the written question to the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations concerning massive deterioration for the sick by the FPÖ/ÖVP tax package be dealt with urgently before the entry into the agenda. For the sake of those provisions which you all know, I will call this urgent question at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 452/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2173	I should also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, I have a desire to hold a brief debate on Question Time 452/AB on Question No 416/J by Mrs Lichtenbergerer and others on Federal Road Network development plans by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. As we have just agreed to a urgent request before 3 p.m., this short debate will be held after the debate on the urgent question has been concluded. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 and 60 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 and Investments (80 and 80 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2197	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2219	Consensus was reached at the Presidential Conference on the following procedure: A day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been proposed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 176 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green 104 minutes. The term of office of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or a speech by the Secretary of State responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 10 minutes, shall be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries will be counted from the outset on the speaking time of the respective government group. That is the same rule as we made yesterday. On this proposal, the House has to decide and decide. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then the one-bright thing is so decided. Advisory Group IX Chapter 63: Economy and work Chapter 64: Constructions and technology (including business plan)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2270	We are now negotiating the IX Advisory Group. There is no need for reporting. We're going into the consultations. In the meantime, the Federal Minister has arrived, as you see, and I am therefore the first speaker to give Mr Kurt Ederd's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2303	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What this budget, which we are discussing here today, means for Austria and for the economy of Austria, is the big question. What is to be decided here is a saving package of the "superlative" because your budget, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is a burden programme without social balance, without social balance. New burdens are the only "idea" behind this budget. They do not have savings targets, but only tax targets. Many losers on the side of workers, pensioners, students and the socially weak will face few winners on the business side and the side of the rich. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the liberals! You always say you think of the "small" people, but obviously you only think more about their wallets or savings books from now on. Even a Wifo study shows that rich people are getting richer and poorer and poorer. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! This is not our policy, but yours – and you are solely responsible for this policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have already got a taste for the new savings package that will come on us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] You of the Freedom Party have documented in the election campaign: Reduce rent, lower electricity prices, check-in on children, create jobs. – But what is reality? – Mr Wenitsch! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenitsch.]] So far, nothing comes of it! [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Although electricity prices are falling, not because of your policy, but because of the EU competition! Instead, they are taxing the falling electricity prices, which may make the electricity price in Austria the same as before. And who has to pay all this? – The so much quoted by you from the FPÖ "small, good and diligent Austrians". They increase the car tax by the government parties; all fees related to housing are also increased. They're posters, "Make living places cheaper!", but if you increase fees related to living, it can only become more expensive. Further: Pass fees, court fees are increased – and much more. The redistributive effect of these increases – which is clear from all studies – is, however, the following: Redistribution from bottom to top; the weaker of our society is much more affected. Their often promised social staggering of transfers does not take place at all. On the contrary: You reduce pensions and transfers, increase excise duties and fees! They pull the money out of the bag with ease, as has never been the case in our country! If you look at your budget a little more closely, you can see quite clearly: It disintegrates like a soap bubble. Many too optimistic estimates of revenue are compared with any dream figures in expenditure. In a few days you, Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein, will insist that this budget slows down investments and that the estimates of revenue are not even worth the paper on which they stand. Ladies and gentlemen! From all the documents available so far, no economic or industrial concept can be read out, and that is the drama at this budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have managed in your first wretched hundred days to call the social partners more than question them; you have started a "successful" social turn: from the little ones to those who, in your opinion, need it, namely the rich, the entrepreneurs, the big farmers, but also the housekeepers, of course, you have not forgotten your budget. You, Minister Bartenstein, promise to the economy billions and accommodating additional pay cuts. But what does that mean? – The average small and medium-sized business with around five employees has almost nothing of it! Perhaps the entrepreneur has a little basket money, but he will certainly not be able to pass it on via the prices. Once again, multinational corporations will benefit, so the big ones. This will not create jobs. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] – This will not benefit because the number of people is very low there. Do you want to make us aware of FPÖ and ÖVP, for example, that by reducing the additional wage costs, there will be a strong demand for employees?- Oh, my God! Do you seriously believe that a reduction in additional wage costs will create new employment?- Oh, my God! – I don't think so! There are also cuts in funding. This is true again of small and medium-sized enterprises in which there is an insignificant number of colleagues. Or: Who benefits from the sale of popular assets? – The people certainly are not because it is sold under the value as Zabotocky explained in a hearing a few weeks ago. But perhaps some ladies and gentlemen have to fulfill their promises from the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] It's pretty easy to spend Mr. Gaugg's wealth under the value that someone else belongs to, namely, the 8 million Austrians and Austrians! [[Abg. Gaugg: Better business than in the "consumer"!]] By the way, the ropeship of your Lord Princehorn is one that will not last forever. Cables have already been torn elsewhere, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Faith You're telling me: With this 2000 budget, all opportunities to consolidate the state budget are granted! This has also been clearly identified by the European Union. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Today to think that would be Minister Edlinger's fault, is a cheap – a cheap one! – Answer! You know very well: Criticism was not about the previous budgeting, but about the budget for the next two, three or four years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This budget does not bring about any structural improvements, because 60 billion schilling is being added to new expenditure in favour of the Austrian rich! And all of this has to be financed by the "small, brave and decent Austrians"! And there is the problem of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2448	Mr Tancsits spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would ask you, Mr President, to look at the facts to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2473	Mr President. High house! Mr Eder said in his speech: They cut the pensions. – That’s wrong! Rather, it is true that the existing pensions are 1st. Years of this year have been increased and it is clear from future pension planning that pensions continue to remain in their worth, will be adjusted net, so that they will not be shortened, but will continue to be increased. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2514	The subject of pensions will still be a matter of concern to us in the course of our debates here. Mr Gaugg has now come to speak. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2539	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has shown us in recent years how to operate Not only in its own party is everything in the arrogance, but the entire state budget is in disorder. [[Abg. Sweamling: You are not even able to imitate that!]] What you have done in social policy, for example, was betrayal of youth, betrayal of employment policy in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You can read all of this. Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger, because you're always pretending you're not responsible for anything that happened in this Republic: Read only the 1999 OECD report, in which you are massively criticized for your budgetary policy! Massif, in this OECD report, points out that you are planning only one-time measures and more like them! Now you are acting as if you were going because you are no longer in office for three or four months, Mr Edlinger, all of this nothing more, now you are no longer interested in it. Obviously, you prefer to swing the fascism cult. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Although her party chairman is never here in the plenary room, she once again threw the Republic of Austria and the Austrian citizens in Paris. And that's what I'm referring to. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] – That can't be the true SPÖ! I mean, that's not her either. Their missing social policy over the past few years, the introduction of a two-class society now makes it necessary to introduce a new social policy era in our Republic. I'm clear that it hurts you from the SPÖ. The worker and the employees in Austria, the You have done a lot of damage to SPÖ in recent years, however, you will no longer be able to represent the SPÖ, because it simply doesn't believe you anymore. [[Abg. Reiter: The labor chamber election results in Carinthia are very meaningful!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs Reitsamer, you are one of the special copies of your SPÖ. They are just those who always pretend to do something for the so-called little man. However, as chairman of the Committee, you have repeatedly defended the privileges of certain professional groups with hangings and squeezings, for example those of the railways. In their calls for tenders, the railways point out every year how proud they are that they can continue to retire at 53 years of age. – This must be paid by the general public. And that is your form of social policy! Their form of social policy is pro-pore policy, is the supply of Minister Scholten and Co, is the "Euroteam", which we can discuss in detail. A certain Mr. Chair President, a certain Mr. Jan Klima, son of the ex-Bundeskanzler, a certain Mr. Mock, secretary of the Federal Chancellor, was involved. They won't get away with it. It can't be like anything, anything up to the 4th. February has happened in this republic, it was good, and now everything is bad. The fact is, a million people in Austria live at the poverty line. These were your past achievements, your miscarriage to the youth. The ÖGB is now reporting again – after years of cuddly course and statements such as: may we not, Federal Chancellor – and notes that it is distributed upwards: Company, large farmers, rental owners. - Great! All this reminds of a long-standing believed epoch. One of the biggest rental owners is your party, Mr. Konecny. He's sitting for your party in the Federal Council. He'll be happy, but he won't find the things you mention again and again. They also believe that it would be the State's sale if the privatisation of companies currently in public hands was carried out. 80 billion schilling of debt you have accumulated with your form of economic policy. This alone is 4 billion schilling each year at a 5% interest rate, which the taxpayer has to impose on the public economy. We have experienced your form of economic policy before your party conference and after your party meeting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With the debt that your party has, you'll prove how to deal with money you care for. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Lower Austria: 300 million!]] Due to your responsibilities towards the Austrian taxpayer, it is necessary that renovations be made. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: FPÖ in Lower Austria!]] An area from all over the world: Modernisation of social security institutions. The age of the Internet and telecommunications has gone by without a trace of accounting and administration! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: FPÖ: 300 million in Lower Austria!]] We still have 29 social security institutions, well cared for directors, obmen and so on. This is and was your form of social policy. The only thing that would really interest you: Everything you now criticize about measures that are taking place... – Mrs Mertel, you are here today, with exception. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Mertel.]] But listen to me! Can you do that? You are ÖGB Women's Representative in Carinthia, what have you really moved for the Austrian women? What motivated you because there was a women's ministry for years? What did you actually bring together? – The only thing you do is criticize measures that have become necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: 300 million has the FPÖ!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Also a possibility! That would be a possibility!]] [[Further calls.]] I'll give you the right. I hear again and again about a so-called distribution political disaster. Mr. Bernd Marin noted a "distributive-political disaster". Do you know when he found out? – On 31 December 2011 the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of If you could expect, you would know that you were the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance at the time. There are, of course, areas that are particularly attractive for the employees employed there, only not all of them are included: for example, the ÖGB with a finish of 24 months salaries. Many employees in Austria do not get a schilling of finish, but the employees of the ÖGB receive up to two annual salaries in deal – their form of social policy! In addition, special grants for the pre-treatment advance from 45 onwards. Year of life, food subsidies, travel expenses, special conditions at BAWAG, congratulations, voluntary social benefits to an adventurous extent. That is all right, Mr President, it is quite welcome, but if it were all Austrian workers, I would think it would have been appropriate. This would have been a correct social benefit: for all Austrian workers, two annual salaries would have been paid. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I invite you to participate in the new social policy development in this Republic. The first point is equality between workers and employees. For years, you have promised the workers that this will be regulated. – Nothing, zero, no millimeters did you! - She's coming. [[Abg. Edellinger: When's that coming?]] Mr. Minister out of service, she's coming. You will, I suppose, decide on this improvement for the workers. Mr Edlinger, this first measure will be implemented, it was in the Council of Ministers and will also find the appropriate majority in Parliament. [[Abg. Edlinger: The "little" people pay! You're a "class" trade unionist!]] Second point: The question of handling also hurts you. For years you have promised an improvement in the finishings – nothing done, no millimeters have gone on. But what you can do perfectly and have not learned in the years of governance is destructiveism in all areas, I would like to mention it once, in the form that even the workers' chamber president in Vienna is forced to spread untruths. It means that the pensions would be reduced by 15 billion schilling. The government would also have announced the sale of large and important Austrian companies. - Great! Would it have been better to act like you did in the "consumer"? Or would it be better to wait like at the VOEST Linz at the time until it was no longer operational? Until a company is in bankruptcy? Is that your form of economic policy? - That's how you did it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] We will become cheap bargains of international corporations. – Is "international capital" really a false word in your ranks? Apparently it is. Since the transition from a liberal bank director at the head of SPÖ to a Moscow wedding, it seems that capital, performance and value are no longer recognised in your ranks. I can assure you of one thing – if it hurts you as well: We will continue to work in the interests of Austrians, especially the workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2759	Mr Edler spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would ask you, Mr President, to look at the situation which has to be corrected and the actual situation to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2783	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has claimed that the railways retire at 53 years of age and are burdening others with it. - That's wrong. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I am correct in fact that the railways will only retire under special conditions of 53 years of age and pay for the old retirement age due to the pension reform in 1997 and the increased pension contribution of 4.5 percent themselves, ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] The FPÖ is against the railways!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2825	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The clock is set at 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2847	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and in the house! I'll invite you to: Forget the debate about rags and humps in the short term, to Austria's controversies, to fatherland traitors, and try to look at what is happening not only here in Austria, but internationally, and discuss it. It would not be uninteresting to see what is going on in the economy if, by speculation, a billionaire like Mr Bill Gates could become poorer or richer by 10 billion dollars within one day. 10 billion dollars within one day: Is this a problem that policy should be interested in, yes or no? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: But this is not a problem that belongs to the budget chapter work and economy!]] – You think this is not a problem that is discussed in the chapter on employment and the economy, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs? – I am already of this opinion! I just need to look at today's newspapers! Have you read today's newspapers? - I suppose so. I suppose you've read the "standard" too. That brings me to an idea: In this there is an article – I think it was in the "standard" of today or perhaps also in yesterday's – in which the economic development in the paper industry is shown by the example of Mr Prinzhorn. This has nothing to do with him personally, but Mr. Prinzhorn notes very objectively and soberly that he cannot defend exports at all! Due to the changed currency relations between the euro and the dollar, the Austrian economy is currently as exportable as ever. He doesn't know where to export anywhere. It cannot serve exports properly at all, so to speak, because currently the conditions for the Austrian economy, for the European economy, are extremely favourable. This is good – you will agree with me – but, Minister of State: That also has another side! That's good for the employees, that's good for the companies, but that's good for the profits too! What I would like to see here, Minister of State: At the moment, windfall profits are being achieved to an extent as it was not possible to imagine a few years ago. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, the times of EU accession: Was it not the case that hundreds of billions of schilling can be saved each year by the removal of the transaction costs of the economy? – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, where did they end up? – In the pockets of the Austrians? – Read the Social Report on the distribution of income in Austria! They landed very unevenly! Now we have the removal of transaction costs – a favourable condition for the economy – the introduction of the euro – a favourable condition for the economy – the development of the euro in relation to the dollar – another favourable prerequisite for the economy! [[Abg. Grossruck: The Federal Minister's fault is that the dollar has risen, isn't it?]] And then now – and I am directly with you, Mr. Federal Minister – we have framework conditions that this Federal Government adds by saying: We need to boost the economy even more! – Mr Prinzhorn no longer knows how he could boost even more, because he is already being swirled in such a way that he can no longer serve exports, but this Federal Government believes that we need to stimulate even more, ladies and gentlemen, by reducing labour costs. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Are you now for more jobs or not?]] Now, as far as unit labour costs are concerned, statistics show that Austria has an excellent place in international comparison. You're not interested, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wattaul: But you didn't contribute to that!]] – You have made even less of an contribution if you want to know exactly, because you have not been able to make a contribution until now, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Wattaul: I do!]] The exciting point is the: Despite the most favourable international and national conditions for the Austrian economy, this federal government has put its heart on the flags to reduce labour costs. You can discuss this – you can discuss it! – when relations are made when work is relieved and the other resources – capital and energy – are burdened. Does that work? – No, ladies and gentlemen, it is not happening! There is no burden on energy, no burden on capital, but there is a relief of the capital factor, for the first time, to an extent that it has not been considered possible, including in the case of additional wage costs: The contribution to accident insurance will be reduced, the contribution for the insolvency fund will be reduced – I am still talking about it, Mr Federal Minister, where this is the relief of the factor work – and the contribution to unemployment insurance will be reduced, and the contribution to health insurance will be reduced in future. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: This is a discharge of the factor labour, not for capital, Mr Colleague!]] But for whom will he be lowered? So far, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria we have had a system of parity contributions in the area of social security, in the field of other insurance. It is not a coincidence, Minister of State, that you have chosen exactly those areas – including unemployment insurance – which are about redundancies on the part of employers! I tell you, Minister of State: The same effect could have been achieved if you had relieved workers on the part of health insurance in the area of unemployment insurance. Yes, why do it? You don't? This would help the economy by reducing the work factor and by reducing the additional wage costs, while at the same time burdening workers! Watch out, Mr Kukacka [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Dr. Drinkl]] It's different too! You don't just have to make other gifts to the companies! One could also relieve in parity, one could also relieve workers on one side and thus the labour factor. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is an effective labour market policy!]] I claim – and we could discuss this for a long time – that: What You are doing here, for the first time, is a redistribution programme in the field of social security up, a one-sided redistribution programme, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's not all. Take the framework conditions that I have outlined to you, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puttinger! The euro, the removal of transaction costs, the internationally favourable relations: This may also play a role for you in tourism; for the economy as a whole, it is an important discharge factor. And that's what you're seeing right now about the corporate profits that don't run so badly. [[Abg. That's positive!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's positive! Are you for losses?]] Where, ladies and gentlemen, do you have this new Federal Government and where do you in your department contribute in some way to the fact that what Mr Prinzhorn said or complained about a month before the election – and he has not even known the positive development in his own farm that has been operating in recent months – is that the poor and the rich are getting richer, not going that way? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That was the accusation to the old federal government. – Where in this chapter of the Economy, Social Affairs and Employment, have you written only once the redistribution – or distribution – of the profits that have now been generated and which have not only been prepared by entrepreneurs but by all employees in the economy, on your flags? I come to the example of a reduction – a reduction on the part of the employer! – the additional wage costs: This is what you have written on your flags for a programme, ladies and gentlemen, and it is starting to become critical – even in the area of unemployment insurance, where, of course, you could have reduced workers' contributions, but it did not want to. [[Abg. Auer: If you listen like this, you have to be happy if the businesses are going badly!]] The second point: The Federal Minister's office now includes competence in the field of labour law and workers' protection. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an insignificant cut! I would remind you, Minister of State, also because Mr Gaugg mentioned earlier the equality of workers and employees, who had always been a subject for the Freedom Party at least so far, that provisions of 1859 were still valid in the area of the right of dismissal! [[Abg. Wattaul: Still!]] In 1859, the right of dismissal for workers in the trade was laid down in the field of trade. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol! It is therefore not true that the collective contractual arrangements that can regulate this right of dismissal are applicable, but that is valid law! You should be ashamed of it, ladies and gentlemen – this is not just your address, I told the Social Democrats just as well – that in the field of economics, there are still conditions for regulating the relationship between workers and employers from 1859! That's a scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you know when civil law is? Do you know when the ABGB is?]] It is not by chance, ladies and gentlemen, that these framework conditions for the regulation of the relationship between workers and employers were defined at the time in the field of trade regulations, that is, on the economy, on economic relations! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The ABGB is from 1811! The criminal law is from 1852! - I don't know!]] Relations with the workers were seen as an attachment to the economic order, the trade order. This is the basic statement, Minister Bartenstein, which we Greens also have on you: You don't see that these are different interests! You have clearly said this to the "standard": That's a cliché. The different interests of workers and employers, which belong to the past. They belong to this past of 1859, Mr. Federal Minister! It would be your job, as Minister of Economic Affairs, to redefine this relationship at least now. . I could read to you beautiful quotations from which it becomes clear what dependence the workers have had on this trade regulation for decades, even in the times of the Social Democratic Government. [[Abg. Wattaul: Just one!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: We only want to hear one!]] But this is still not the point, ladies and gentlemen. One can come to the conclusion – and I suspect once, Federal Minister, that this is your opinion – that in the field of economic relations the right has little to look at, anyway, because this area is overregulated, because it is anyway wrong to over-regulate relations between workers and employers. I think this is a fundamentally wrong approach to the problem we are facing at the moment – and not only since this year, but for years now – that the area of labour law is one of those areas in which the most law is broken, in which the most frequently and most clearly the contractual relations that employers have been subject to are not respected by employers. That is not the majority of the workers; it is also that God is grateful, still not the majority of employers. But what is happening here can be seen from the increasing statistics on judicial contests of employment contracts: This is a violation of contractual relations by the employer's side, by certain employers, to the extent that one would not imagine it and how one would not think it possible. What we demand in this area, Mr Federal Minister, is that the relevant authorities, which are there, can also act. But what you are planning, Minister of State, is to reduce control. I am therefore in the next area of worker protection. How have you been bragging in recent years when the introduction of the Workers' Protection Act has caused the numbers of accidents at work to fall! . We are currently on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the ÖVP:But during the leisure accidents!]] In 1999, the accident at work, Mr. Federal Minister, you know, increased from 107 800 to 112 000. This is an increase of 3.9 percent. And what are you doing? – They lower the contribution to accident insurance, which leads to the moaning of accident insurance, such as the "press" of today, under the savings package: "Prevention and numerous other measures are at risk if contributions to accident insurance are reduced by 0.2 percent, the AUVA warns." – This is the development you have to answer, ladies and gentlemen. This is a development that does neither good for the economy nor for the workers. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This follows the concept that neither international nor here in Austria will lead to success: that of redistribution up! The benefit of wealthy people, the further benefit of companies that are already making great profits, at national and international level, is disrupting relations in society. Obviously, you're interested in it. And this is the massive accusation we have raised against your policy in recent months, ladies and gentlemen. They take, on the pretext that this is about "Austria-needing", about "lumps", "humps" and what else I am going to do, people in this country their future prospects! You give the companies, you give the wealthy in this country even more than what they already have, namely, good opportunities to rise in the economy. They provide them with the windfall profits, they also provide them with every possible opportunity to further deteriorate the situation of the poor on an international scale, the situation of those who depend on their work, those who depend on living conditions and social conditions. [[Abg. Wattaul: Foreign words are not enough! You have to have a job!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Their programmatic statements in recent months have had a concept – that is not to be disputed – but they are fundamentally wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3130	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Gäßner to speak. I would ask you to present the facts to be corrected and the facts. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3154	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Mr Gaugg, who I am not currently seeing in the hall, has claimed that, after his retirement from the Federal Government, Mr Scholten should have been "supplyed". I am indeed correct in stating that after his retirement from the political activity, Federal Minister Scholten returned to the same bank, in which he was previously with a return guarantee, with exactly the same kind of return guarantee as that with which Mr. Federal Minister Grasser can return to his old company. [[Abg. Young: Where he was before!]] [[Call to the liberals:Ah!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3199	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3220	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! In itself, I did not want to say a lot to colleagues in Ollinger, because at half past ten you should not dream anymore, because you should already be more mint. But I think one thing is necessary: If he presents the trade order here, he should already be informed that there is an ABGB that dates back to 1811, that there is a basic state law that dates back to 1867. I don't think he'd reject both of them. I also believe that one of his doctrines, from which he always shows us a lot and says, "The Capital", 1842 and 1852, has been written! So there are parallels here, and I can't understand why it's good one time that's bad another time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 1869!]] – Written in 1869 – good. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The fisherman knows!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the mid-1980s, the budget of the U.S. government had a growing deficit due to the enormous increases in the defence budget at that time. The creation of a balanced public budget has been declared a top priority. So the American government had a huge problem to solve, faced this challenge and mastered the At the end of the day, too, this budget problem. Unfortunately, this did not happen in Austria by former Minister of Finance Edlinger, who should have known the huge budget hole of 109 billion Schilling. Instead of becoming active here, "stopping" it – under quotation marks – he has kept it silent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] We have often discussed the details here in this House. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edellinger.]] The new government has addressed this problem to God immediately, and with this budget it is also taking the first steps to act accordingly. Unfortunately, on Monday in Brussels, Minister of Finance Grasser received the invoice at the ECOFIN Council. On Monday, as he himself said, he got a "rightful earbeat" for Mr Edlinger's disastrous budget policy. The EU's Finance Ministers vehemently criticized Austria – please, listen now! – in 1998 and 1999 as opposed to other Member States in its consolidation efforts, unfortunately, and that the originally reduced financial debt was re-increased. Under your responsibility, Mr. ex-minister – that was disputed yesterday – total debt rose from 63.5 percent in 1998 to 64.9% of GDP in 1999. The EU also criticised you as Minister of Finance for 1997... [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong!]] – You don’t know what I want to say yet! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You know? - Well, very well! You're a forward-looking person, you've always proved that at the budget! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 1 to 0 for Puttinger!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the total opposition!]] They announced that a balanced budget would be achieved in 1997. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved in the last two years. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] At any rate, the EU has asked Austria to reduce total debt to 60 percent of GDP in 2002, and to set the deficit ratio to 1.3 percent in two years. We will accept this challenge and we will prove to you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that we will restore the Austrian budget. We'll do this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Huber: Where have you been in the last 14 years?]] In principle – and we must pay particular attention to this – that budgetary policy must always be under strict control of expenditure, that is to say thanks to God today, and that the public budget deficit may be increased at most in the event of an economic weakness. On the other hand, in an economic prosperity phase – I believe we can say today that we are in such a situation – the deficit must be reduced, and a good income situation must always be used for consolidation. That is what we have done in our budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me therefore return to American stability policy very briefly, because it has proved that anticyclic financial policy is characterised by a stabilising effect on economic development. But not only financial matters are ultimately crucial for the budget and for the development of the economy: Austria also needs a strong political situation. It has been shown in recent days to God that in many of the 14 other EU countries there have been more and more votes against the sanctions. It has been clearly recognized that the exclusion of a partner cannot be the right way for a European policy, for a common Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Can you make a word message without sanctions?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the behaviour of a part of the Members of this House has its impact on the economy. In this context, I can fully support Ludwig Erhard, who has once said that the economy consists of 50 percent psychology, with which he has marked the interrelationship between the economy and the behaviour of politics. I therefore find it unbearable – forgive you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – that your chairman, Dr. Gusenbauer, continues to act as an Austrian "representative" in the negative sense – under the lead marks – and that certainly does not give good service to Austria and the Austrian economy, but does it damage! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The best proof that he's not a patriot at all, certainly there was in Paris, which has already been mentioned today. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Acting against better knowledge is not allowed to anyone! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Unheard!]] He has acted against better knowledge, he has known that there is no anti-EU campaign in Austria, he has known that there is not in any case a popular survey, but that this is the last way to tell the members of the EU that the Austrian people are behind us, and he has known that no one in the government is against EU enlargement! [[Abg. Edellinger: Oh, that's it?]] Acting against better knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, is not permitted to a politician! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The sanctions you have taken into consideration by your party against Austria – it has been proved that you did this last time in Europe – have not been the source of what you wanted to put Austria out. You did not succeed, and I can prove this to you very briefly with a number: The country that is most critical of Austria, namely Belgium, has the highest rate of increase in tourism in March 2000, namely, ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully! –, 229.6 percent, that’s 283,900 more nights compared to the previous year! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The people have proved that it is better and failed than some rulers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Edlinger:... a daily proof!]] You are mad that the economic sanctions did not work in Austria – but I will come back to them again. A few more words about tourism. With regard to the budget approach to tourism, I am glad that the reduction in the funding of the BÜRGES has not taken place and that the funds for the Hotel Treuhand have not been reduced, and of course I am also glad that no redistribution and reduction in discretionary expenditure have taken place. At this point, I would like to call on you, Minister of State and Mrs. State Secretary, to maintain this level for Austrian tourism, because you know exactly what a difficult situation this tourism is in. You know what unfavourable fiscal conditions prevail, you know how the capital market is, on the personnel market, and you also know that wearing the main burden on beverage tax replacement funding virtually does not bring any improvement in competitiveness to the host industry. The total budget deficit here has been reduced by around 14 billion schilling this year compared to 1999 – please note! – That’s 9.9 percent reduction! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Expenditure has been reduced by 2.1 percent if I do not take into account capital services. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The primary surplus increased by 89 percent, which is an increase of 23.2 billion schilling to 43.9 billion schilling in 2000. These are achievements that we also have to communicate to the Austrians! These are achievements that the Austrians finally feel and which are of vehement importance for the Austrian economy. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Böhacker.]] Finally, I would like to point out once again the need for a positive mood in our country and for our country. Thank God there is a positive mood in the country and for Austria throughout the economy. In order to maintain this, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should be represented abroad only by people who think positively about it. But this is certainly not Mr Gusenbauer, but this is our Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3473	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3506	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puttinger said a few minutes ago that I had promised in Brussels to ensure a balanced budget in 2002, and he concludes that a balanced budget is a zero deficit. - That's wrong. I demonstrate this by the 1999 EU document C 4504, the Council's opinion on the last stability programme for which I was responsible and on which I too am standing. I'm allowed to quote: "The Council recognises that the medium-term deficit value of 1.4% of GDP as a target should be sufficient to ensure that automatic stabilisers can become effective in the event of normal economic downturn, in view of the low fluctuations in economic growth in Austria, without the risk of a 3 percent increase in the reference value." - Quote. I promised. The opinion of Mr Puttinger is just as wrong as that of Mr Grasser's Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3558	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3579	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs, when preparing the budget for my area of responsibility, I was particularly concerned that, in the field of active labour market policy, it is not just a reduction, but a substantial increase, as is also set out in the government programme. From 10.5 billion schilling in 1999, the financial resources for active labour market policy under the 2000 budget could be increased to 11.1 billion schilling and thus 5.7 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! What the representatives of the opposition have said now is, in fact, very clearly contrasting with developments in the labour market. Not only could the objectives of the National Employment Plan, namely to create 100 000 additional jobs by 2002 and to reduce the unemployment rate by EUROSTAT Luxembourg to almost 3.5 percent, already now, in 2000, – both the essential, substantial objectives of the National Employment Plan have already been achieved in 2000, i.e. with two years ahead – is overall, as you know, the development in the labour market is extremely good. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is economic development, we do not need you!]] We have seen a decline in unemployment in all areas, we are on the move towards full employment, and – this is particularly important – in the critical groups, in the area of youth unemployment, in the area of unemployment of older workers over 50 years of age, but also in the area of women's unemployment, there are, in part, disproportionate declines. [[Abg. Oil: Well, yes!]] As I see it, what the labour market data tell us is clearly more positive than what you have said in your debates here. [[Abg. Oillinger: What data do you have?]] Now to you, Mr Oellinger, on your criticism of the combination of labour market and economic agents in a single house today. Apart from the fact that we know that this is the case in other countries – not only with our neighbours Switzerland and Hungary, but also in Sweden and the United Kingdom in a very similar structure, in a very similar division of competence – I say quite frankly to you: [[Abg. Oillinger: Hungary is our model?]] I do not know whether it would have been possible, in the event of a non-combination after 100 days of government activity, to implement the merger and adaptation or approximation of the rights of workers to those of employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what trade unions and what the Social Democratic Party has called for over years and decades, namely this alignment, has already implemented. The proposal is in the House, and this ensures equality in cases of disease and service prevention, and I am convinced that the social partners as a collective contractual partner will be able to understand the missing adjustments in the notice periods in the coming weeks and months. [[Abg. Oillinger: Who pays for it?]] That's their responsibility, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Mr Edler! I did not want to address your actual correction, but because you have now made an intermediate call, I would like to do so. They said that this would be so for the ÖBB that only under special conditions employees with 53 years of age retired. To this end, I can tell you: These special conditions obviously occur at a relatively high frequency, because the management of the ÖBB told me that retirement at 53 years of age is the case for the ÖBB and not the exception. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But, Mr Edler, I would add: Perhaps you mean with the special conditions that the ÖBB employees will not be subject to retirement rules and that a lot of ÖBB employees who go into retirement will then take an active job and increase their earnings accordingly. Maybe you meant that. [[Abg. Look at this!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and calls to the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to the issue of additional labour costs. I could not entirely follow the argument of Mr Öllinger, because he spoke of a discharge of the capital factor. I think this is a diametric error, Mr Oellinger. This is, of course, a relief of the factor of work. [[Abg. Oillinger: The employer's side against the workers!]] Mr Oellinger! They also said that this was good for companies, for employees and for profits. To this end, I can tell you: If you had said that it would be good for the companies, for the employees and for the results, I would have fully approved you. Your argument, it's good for the profits, but it's a little polemic, so there's only limited consent from me. But after all, you also said it was good for the employees. – Well, it's good for the employees. But it is not good for employment in our country that we in Austria are at the lowest end of the euro scale in the area of additional wage costs – with the exception of France and Belgium – and that is why we need to reduce the additional wage costs, and we have to go this way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is also in the medium term, Mr Oellinger – I am saying this because I know the competence of the social partners as a collective contractual partner in this area – a contribution to less gross and more net in the sense of the workers in that country. [[Abg. Oils: For whom? That's the point!]] Less gross and more net, of course, for employees and for employees! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: legendary!]] I heard yesterday at the opening of a business run by Austrians in Zurich on Bahnhofstraße – on the Bahnhofstraße, the most noble address – about entrepreneurs who are also very successful in doing comparable business in Austria, that it was no longer the case that the wage level in Zurich Bahnhofstraße would be higher. No, no, the difference is that you get far less net than employees there, but the gross cost in Zurich Bahnhofstraße is quite similar to that in Vienna Kärntnerstraße. This development must also be taken into account. In any case, I am in favour of reducing the additional wage costs and thus giving us the opportunity to implement the development less gross, more net in fact. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oellinger! Because you have criticized the fact that one-sided employers' contributions would be reduced, I can tell you: If you lower contributions to the ISG, to the Insolvency Insurance Fund, and to accident insurance, you can't do otherwise. There are no employers' contributions. I am sure you will agree. [[Abg. Oils: unemployment insurance!]] But to unemployment insurance – I am already coming to it! – the contributions are lowered in parity: on the one hand and on the other. So what do you want? It comes to a parity reduction, and that is good and right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Oellinger! They have criticized the fact that we want to boost the economy. I would like to say to you: Yes, it is good to boost the economy, because as long as growth is sustainable, growth is still the best prerequisite for new jobs. Where do you think the new jobs are coming from? – Of course, of the 3.1 percent economic growth we will achieve this year, and it should not be much less next year. This growth ensures excellent development in the labour market. It is not the government, it is not the High House, it is the economy, it is the enterprises, it is the employers and employees who have achieved this very favourable development, and I can only congratulate it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: Hopefully, the economy still has a few consumers!]] The economy has consumers, the economy has an ever-increasing number of self-employed people working in its sectors. But you must not overlook, ladies and gentlemen, that not only the development of the labour market is an excellent one, but also the development of growth is an excellent one. As it was mentioned earlier, the low euro and the high dollar and exports and the companies of Mr Prinzhorn would be booming, I can say: I hope that exports as a whole will be booming, and I also wish the paper industry and the companies of Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Prinzhorn that the exports will be booming, because ultimately booming exports will also do one thing, namely to create jobs and jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, I do not agree with Mr Öllinger when he says taxatatively: lower euro, high dollar, and that fits the economy. [[Abg. Oellinger: I didn't claim that!]] First: The Secretary of State, Mrs Tourism, may say something about it, because it is not good for incoming tourism from the non-euro area. This makes Austria more expensive. Secondly, It can also be too much of the good. Of course we said in the first months: A slightly weaker euro, this is not an accident that forces exports. But now we also notice our energy accounts, and we now, of course, also notice the imports from the non-euro area as a whole, that there are certain elements in the direction of inflation. I do not want to speak of an arbiter, because we are far from yet, but the lowest value last year, namely 0.5, 0.6 percent, will unfortunately not be able to reach us in 2000. There it will be 1,4, 1,5, 1,6 percent – we do not know exactly yet – and of course this has to do with the euro weakness. And I say to you that I am in no way entirely concerned about this development and I do not fully appreciate it as much as you do, Mr Oellinger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, in the direction of Mr Eder, whom I very much appreciate, who gave the main speech of the Socialist Group. – Let us leave the church in the village and try not to divide the middle class and the large enterprises in a debate on economy and work! You, Mr Eder, who comes from one of Austria's most important large companies, are in the lead position, do not have to knock on the multinationals here. We have very few in Austria, you come from such a one, and we are proud of it. Please also stand at the floor of the House to make you come from one of these groups, and do not knock on it and do not try to get any credit from middle-classes for it, which you do not get anyway! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll tell you one thing: Pension age, early pensions, retirement waves, social plans, "golden handshakes" and more – in which business areas has this been forced, did it have to be forced? – The very small companies were certainly not the ones that started with it, but they were rather the big ones, those were the rather close to the public and the state. I emphasize: It had to be because that was a cost position there, but now we don't pretend we wanted to create a two-class society. Economic and labour market together: If one goes well, the other is good. The budget for business and work is trying to reflect this. I think that's a reasonable basis. The macroeconomic figures we now have give me the right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3882	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3903	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I have hardly seen a more real-life objector than you do. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] To what you said today on the question of division: Your budget, which you present here today, is not a consolidation budget, but it is clear that it is precisely the lower levels of income, because you want to distribute gifts to large companies. It is one of the largest redistribution programs from the poor to the rich you want to plan and decide. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is the moth box of the class struggle!]] The motto of your budget is: delete, cut, drive over. That's the social cold that comes from you. We have known this from the ÖVP for many years and have experienced it in many years in negotiations. Let me demonstrate this by an example, namely your "Action Fairness". Their "action fairness" of course does not bring equality between workers and employees. Their "action fairness" in reality means a loss of 4.3 billion schilling for workers due to the reduction of the holiday allowance in the event of termination. Do you know how many people these are? – One million jobs change annually, and with this measure you reduce one million employees who change their employment relationship. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They always announce – we already know – what will enter into force in 2002, 2003. I now ask you to answer the question: How does it look, then, with the unfair termination periods of workers as opposed to the employees? Why is that not included in your package? – This is a mogel pack, which is an “action unfairness” that you plan there and that workers have to pay. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Minister! If you are serious, you agree with the proposal tabled by the Socialist Group. We are really concerned with the full and fair alignment between workers and employees. Do you agree with your group if it really is about fair alignment between workers and employees? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: Haven't you had the majority in recent years? Why didn't you do that?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 30 years SPÖ did not do this!]] Federal Minister! You have also launched your initiatives on the labour market today. We know the initiatives of the EIA and also the FPÖ concerning women. We know your family model. Of course, there is the man who deserves, and the woman is the minister who remains at home. [[Abg. Wattaul: The SPÖ has been chosen!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Only: The reality is another, because this model is being rejected by women. But now let me refer specifically to the budget chapter you are presenting here today. They will make a massive reduction in the Federal Road Administration of 15 percent – about 1 billion Schilling. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: Mr Schmid is in charge of this, Mrs Colleague!]] Do you know what the employment policy means, what effect does it have on employment? – The Wifo not only says that your budget is a non-social budget, it also says that these 1 billion schillings will cost around 1 400 people their jobs and that they will not then find employment. They drive over thousands of workers with a single line of prepotents over it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also cut short in the area of schools. One is always what you say – the other is your actions. You're supposed to be measured by your actions. One is more terrible than the other. Although they are talking about an educational and technology offensive, in reality it does not look like the appropriate equipment is being made available for it. I know that this federal government also has an disturbed relationship with the Internet generation, that is, to young people in this country, as your Federal Chancellor has proved. [[Abg. Wattaul: Think about who has an disturbed relationship!]] On the one hand, the announcement to bring the Internet to schools, but on the other hand obviously not to create the conditions or the framework conditions for it, I hope that this government does not already have the plan that education will be moved into a virtual world. In total, this budget has a line to reach: It is saved at the expense of the lower levels of income and also at the expense of pensioners. Mr Tancsits, who spoke of pension increases, your programme will feel the minimum pensioners. [[the speaker holds a graphic with the title "Social Just Are Black-Blue" to the height]] Your program costs a pensioner a whole month's salary. That's not a problem with your income. In the case of a minimum pensioner with 8 300 S, this is a question of survival. [[Call to the Freeman: Why are you so nervous?]] These are the measures you are taking, and they are unsocial. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for intercession with the liberals.]] I know that you're upset by the FPÖ anyway. This load package has also brought the FPÖ to the lost road. Thank God, most of all time! [[Abg. Wattaul: Who has 3rd place. October won?]] For this non-social programme, you will receive the invoice from the workers in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4099	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. He's got the floor. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4120	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bures, I have great understanding for you, and understand that you are very nervous here, because you have a new job as... I don't know what you're talking about now: In the meantime, the SPÖ had a "spin doctor" who earned the double of what the two Ladies Bures and Kuntzl deserve together. Come now Down here and bring into the meeting arguments that you have taken out of the drawer, which are very well known to me, i.e. arguments that are put as untruths in all the establishments, everywhere, from the Chamber of Workers to the Trade Union Confederation, and which are condemning our package of measures as a wave of burden. Now I ask you: What have you done in the last 30 years? For 30 years you have been appointed by SPÖ the Federal Chancellor, for 30 years you have appointed the Minister of Finance and 30 years the Minister of Social Affairs, and in these 30 years you have shown us how to avoid dealing with money. You've shown us that you don't know how to deal with money meaningfully. You have proved this at the "consumer" by proving that the state budget in Austria is bankrupt, so that we need to clean it up now, and you have also proved this at your party bank, which is now empty. That's summa summarum what came out of you, but you want to make us know that we're doing everything wrong and that you're doing everything right. It certainly can't work like this! They were the defenders of the two-class society. This has been the case, for example, in the area of pension. – Mr Edler spoke earlier and defended the railways. To do this, I have to say: I'm sorry for those railway workers who work on the track and do heavy work somewhere; these people would have to be allowed to retire earlier than the others. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Grabner.]] Thank you, Mr Grabner. However, I do not understand that those who work in a firm that is not exposed to the weather conditions after 35 years with the 53. In the economy, on the other hand, one of every carpenter, one of every castler and one of the roofers go into retirement until 65. If he has 45 years of insurance at the age of 60, he is expected to work. We will not allow that, but the one who has many years of insurance will continue to do so with the 60. years of life can go to pension without any deductions. [[Abg. Silhavy: years of insurance or years of contribution?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That's the way it is! – The same right must apply to all! But you have helped a society that has retired after 35 years, has been given ten years, and that is a total inequality, and that cannot continue in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You have no idea!]] I already have an idea, Mrs Colleague, but you have walked blindly through the area and are still wearing scams today, but you will still get there, at the latest, when your party will fall below the 30 percent mark, and you will experience it. [[Abg. Silhavy: Do you calculate insurance years or years of contributions?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Eder claimed that new burdens were the only recipe for this new coalition, this new federal government, and the rich would be richer and poorer. – Yes, I have seen this clearly in the last ten years, who has become richer and poorer ever since. So, ladies and gentlemen, it can't go on! Two savings packages have been tied up, the people have been burdened, and the government budget has become more and more indebted. [[Abg. Silhavy: And what do you say about the budget?]] You have constantly announced the "Action Fairness", we are now carrying it out. The Federal Minister mentioned just before that we want to achieve a general alignment of workers' rights with employee rights. We haven't reached the target yet, but the beginning is made once. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] We are now in the process of achieving that. But you are excited here that the service provider is left with the aliquotation of the holiday allowance and so on much more. That's what it's like. You wrote in your punctuation, which you negotiated with the ÖVP, just as well. This is going to be done just as it is going to be. I would like to say to you on the aliquotation of the holiday claim: This makes sense that seasonal workers are employed for more than half a year, because today it is so that they are terminated before the end of a half year, because, if you are busy for a day longer, the holiday claim for the whole year is too expensive, and that is why every service provider, the seasonaler, is busy, which is especially the case in the gastronomy, is cancelled. [[Abg. You son of a bitch, let's get some time, you can get some air.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: (looking at the right side of the house)]] We need to extend this employment to reduce the number of unemployed. That is meaning and purpose of the whole! Now on the question of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary. – We of the liberals are the defenders of the 13th and 14th. Monthly salary. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] What to do You from the SPÖ? – You place in the establishments today: This government wants 13th and 14th. Delete monthly salary! I can still remember that the former finance ministers Lacina and Staribacher called for this in this House. All the others were against it, because under tax law this is expected throughout the year, and there is no point in changing it at all. So, it's important that the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary in the current form remains unchanged. There will also be a reform of the discharge. This is also in your "Action Fairness" inside. – We will also enforce this point. We will ensure that all the unself-employed from the first day on aliquot receive a treatment claim, coupled with an operating pension, when possible, on a voluntary basis. Half of all self-employed people today have no right to do so, and we believe that this is still to be implemented. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Pick up the air!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A responsible financial, social, labour and economic policy means that we must first reorganise the budget, that we must preserve and improve opportunities for young people. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Leave time, not so fast!]] We need to create improved training opportunities and ensure that the security of the older generation is also ensured by preventing the intervention of existing pensions. The funds for active labour market policy have been increased from 10.5 billion schilling to 11.1 billion schilling. More jobs could be created. It could be achieved in the short time that we have fewer unemployed. So I can only congratulate this Federal Government on having enforced so much in such a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4316	Mrs Silhavy spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4341	Mr President. High house! Mr Dolinschek said that equality between workers and employees would have taken place. – This claim is wrong! I'm actually correcting. First: There is still no legal basis for this. What we are talking about is a proposal which has not yet been decided here in the House. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But planned!]] Secondly, The project of this proposal is not an equal treatment of workers with employees, because there is still a very essential point, namely equality in terms of termination periods. [[Abg. Dolinschek: We will do that too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What have you done for years?]] Thirdly, Workers pay for this because the entrepreneurs benefit more from holiday quotas than they have to pay for the payment. This is not an equal treatment action, but an unfairness action!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4430	Please, now we're back to the list of speakers! Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4454	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Dear Discussive Rulerships in the House! Back to the subject, first of all to what you, Minister of Economic Affairs, have to change now: first of all were You Minister of the Environment, now you are Minister of Economic Affairs, have said here. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Minister of Labour!]] Of course, you also attach great importance to being titulated as Minister of Labour. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Sure!]] All right. You're learning to do that. That's why you'd actually be your big star hour. Now you are in the hands of what you, as Minister of the Environment, have not been able to implement, because of lack of competence, lack of instruments, as Minister of Economic Affairs, as Minister of Labour, and to finally make nails out of this entire package of requirements – and I stress this – with heads. I repeat: Now would be your star hour! I say this in the context of the fact that you should unite the "Economic and Work" package in a person and that environmental policy should at least act in your memory, if not in your values. From this glorious trinity, you could really bring something religious together. Against this background, your skills and your design possibilities, on the one hand, and in the background of your experience and knowledge as an environmental minister, on the other hand, your actions, your actions and also your budget policies are now measured. No question. This is certainly the first point: What to do Are you really specific in terms of reducing additional wage costs? What are you doing to realize what you have always called for as Minister for the Environment, namely the introduction of eco-tax? In principle, eco-tax is the only sustainablely effective method that you, as Minister of Labour, make a little progress towards more employment and that, as Minister of Economic Affairs, you can make it possible for companies to provide cheaper workers. What to do You there at the eco tax? You were silent about this. I didn't hear from you. I could also read little about this in the coalition partners' agreement, and I have heard even less about this in the Government Declaration, and now in the budget I find nothing but a redeployment of funds. It will not be an essential governance instrument, an essential framework condition of the economy in Austria, namely the eco-tax, in the sense that it should be established in order to achieve the desired goal, in order to allow you both economic and labour market policy and, above all, ecologically at last one step forward. That is why my great plea, especially in the light of a legally binding agreement that you have entered into, in view of the fact that you have agreed to the implementation of the Kyoto objectives and that you are also committed to the implementation of them. Minister! At the time you were Environment Minister, I am now saying, Minister of Economic Affairs, Minister of Labour. What to do Do you now want us to achieve this 13 percent reduction in CO2 emissions? - I don't see anything. I don't see anything in the budget either. And it would be as much as possible through the eco-tax, the reduction of additional labour costs, the taxation of energy, the fairer handling of taxation in the transport sector. What is now being adopted by this government in this budget with your handwriting and also with your signature in the budget accompanying legislation, for example, in the transport sector, which is also an essential economic factor, is really inconvenient, old-fashioned, that is, from the past. Fixed costs will be increased and variable costs will remain the same. Excuse me, if you act economically, then the consequence is that you are simply driving more – that is, the national economic balance sheet – which not only burdens the environment, but also the balance sheet, the import-export balance, the trade balance, because we import relatively much fossil energy. I'd have expected more, there's still a lot missing. There would be the real starting point for an economic minister, but he did not even put the lever in the worst place. Climate protection or eco-tax, reducing the additional wage costs – this is an overall package. And this complete package is also found in this wonderful writing by Wolfgang Schüssel, his sign at that time, Vice-Chancellor: "Austria Future – Thought Pillars into the 21st century. ==References== Mr Bartenstein! As a reading, I recommend the paper by Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, page 103 – I quote –: "If the technically and economically viable building stock in Austria had been thermally improved over a period of five years, the renovation potential would be fully exploited, this would result in up to 44,000 additional jobs a year," - I interrupt the quote and say: a joy for the Minister of Labour; I continue the quote – "a budget relief of almost 25 billion. OES as a result of higher tax revenue and lower social expenditure, as well as a marked improvement in the current account." – For you, Minister of Economic Affairs, very favourable. I quote: "At the same time, this "large-scale project" – i.e. climate protection – "could not only achieve the Toronto objective, but also the substantially more "advanced" goal of the Climate Alliance, namely a 50% reduction in CO2 emissions compared with 1990." Minister for Economic Affairs! Minister of Labour! Together with Professor Schleicher of TU Graz, they have also developed concepts as Minister for the Environment. Grab into your drawer, get it out and make it It is the crucial step in finally implementing this three-way package, which brings three major benefits, at last in terms of improving employment policy, better economic policy and, above all, better environmental policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to briefly outline another field of activity, which is now also in your hands, while I also lack your ambitious manuscript, their ecological and economic – the same root of words – continues to handwriting: It is the great area of liberalisation. What about the liberalisation of the trade system? We want business start-ups, you always say the economy creates new jobs. Where, then, is the better framework for liberalising the business system for business start-ups? Don't you read the Wifo studies? Look Are you not looking at the documents already put on the table by industrial expert Karl Aiginger? There is a clear list of the direction in which Austrian economic policy has to go in order to be innovative, to create jobs and to enable future scenarios. And there it is quite, very large and central inside, that it is essential to liberalize the trade order. But there you are in the clamp, in the clamp of your chamber officials. And this is also an approach that you must certainly continue to work on, in which your predecessor, Minister Farnleitner, has so far, and unfortunately also overall, failed. I see no initiatives, no opportunities for young entrepreneurs to be really offensive. There is much too much bureaucracy, shocks and conditions that they can by no means fulfil from the point of view. It would be necessary, at last, to go through with the Rotstift and create the necessary liberal conditions so that the company's start-ups can be driven forward. Another element, which the Wifo study repeatedly mentions, and which is urgently necessary for offensive economic policy in Austria, is the element of the harmonisation of investment rights. We Greens were the first to insist that there is at last a uniform environmental plant law. So far, this gap is claping. So far, no step has been taken in this direction. So far, you have not made a first proposal for initiative. Nothing! The one-stop philosophy or one-shop philosophy – however it may be called in this new German – is in the government agreement, but it only has a negative aspect for us, which will be discussed very soon in this House too, namely that, as part of the novelle on the EIA, you want to restrict citizens' rights very strongly, according to the draft EIA club. Please, it is very likely that economic policy will be able to comply with citizens' rights and to simplify the procedures in general, if you create clear framework conditions, if you create clear party positions, if you finally tighten the diffuse trade regulations and other regulatory elements in the direction of a single instrument. That's your job too, and I haven't noticed anything. You're still far behind what the Wifo actually tells you or suggests. To the next point where you could prove your economic and ecological manuscript once: In the case of a company which is a resident of a This budget shows that the funds for the Austrian Business Agency will be deleted by a total of one fifth. You know this very successful company, which has also repeatedly received the praise of the Court of Auditors, especially because this company has managed, with its comparatively low resources, to lurk the four to five times in corporate taxes, so that what you put into the Austrian Business Agency is more or less going into the budget by four to five times increased again. And what's now? – They delete the funds for the Austrian Business Agency by 21 percent, by one-fifth. Well, with the same hand, you practically reduce the budget income from the company tax title. Now, if you count it up, it's a fifth times four, so it's a whole lot. [[Abg. Wattaul: This is a good math!]] In my opinion, this is the wrong point of approach, even seen by your glasses. Budgetary policy is moving in the wrong direction, as it would have to be recast. If you already want to have business settlements that are supposed to bring something, then you also have to drive it forward, then you must not be crunchy where in the final effect the filling horn is opened. That's the next criticism point, exactly as seen with your eyes! On the previous subject: We believe that economic policy should always provide framework conditions, not for regulations, but for clear frameworks. And a clear framework condition is the research and technology offensive. I don't know how often our clubman Van der Bellen has already pleaded in this direction and called for these research and technology billions. I don't see a silver strip on the horizon either. This is still wishful thinking. In this respect, we cannot see any real steps in budgetary policy or in other initiatives. We would have needed this bitterly. I do not need to quote the OECD or the Wifo. I think you are all aware that it is urgently necessary to put these billions on their feet and turn them in the right direction. I would like to draw attention to an example that we have just moved forward in cooperation in Upper Austria. There Landesrat Leitl, together with my colleague Mr. Anschober, created an eco-cluster. Why isn't this at federal level? Minister, Minister for Economic Affairs, former Minister for the Environment. Why Drive Don't you want an eco-cluster, a networking, a collaboration of companies working in environmental technology? That would be future-looking, economic and ecological. There would be an starting point for positive profiles. This would certainly also be a key point in modernising Austria's industrial and economic policies as a whole, especially with regard to the opening of the East and the extension of the East, where we would have a huge field of sales especially for environmental technology. Please, you sleep, there's nothing going on, there's still only one word in the room without following actions. After these three, four, five points I see as starting points for your economic-ecological manuscript, finally a few comments on what you gave of yourself about redistribution. You have referred to Mr Eder and you have said that he is speaking unfairly for small and medium-sized enterprises because he comes from a large company. I believe that in your economic policy, as well as in some of your predecessors' economic policies, I see a redistribution within the enterprises of the smaller and medium-sized ones to the larger ones. There are therefore relatively many small and medium-sized enterprises, because there are very many new start-ups, and these enterprises are known to start small and medium-sized. In principle, existing small and medium-sized enterprises are not only subject to massive competitive pressure, but also lack of framework conditions. I can't take it here to address the general problem of local services. It is time and again Mr Haigermoser, who proposes very progressive tones that go in this direction. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I want to ask you a question! Just interrupt!]] – I finally woke you up because I already miss your calls. First of all, it is important to ensure that you, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, are also concerned that the shopping centre regulation – I am addressing a hot topic – is in a way innovative and legally adjusted, so that its original intention, namely the core areas, to protect the centres and not to drive the construction on the green meadow, Mr Haigermoser, will finally be pushed forward in a proper legal form. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Padschuch in Salzburg! Enemy of local care! Green Citizens' List!]] Mr Haigermoser! I am entirely of your opinion. Small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, local services must definitely be strengthened. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I am d’accord!]] However, we really need to strive towards cost-truth in the transport sector, otherwise it simply comes to prefer the big companies on the green meadow. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Padtsch says the opposite! That's the terrible one!]] – No, Padschucht does not say the opposite in this case, we can talk about it carefully once. But fortunately – and I am now holding fast – we are also going to conform to the fact that we need the cost truth in the transport sector, in the sense of economic efficiency, so that we really have justice and equal conditions of competition. And since you owe me approaches, Mr Minister, you owe me framework conditions. I have already tabled an application in this direction. Finally, a few comments on your counter to Mr Oellinger's comments on employment, which you were talking about, or were looking forward to, that there are very, very many new jobs, especially in the area of women, in the area of older workers, but also in the field of younger people, many more jobs are offered. And that's the jumping point for me. Yeah, they're jobs! Jobs! The "employee miracle" – under quotation marks – is largely based on the fact that there are very many part-time workers that the number of full-time workers is declining and the number of part-time workers is increasing. They take all of them into account in your statistics, regardless of whether they are full-time or part-time. To be honest, one has to say that this "employment miracle" – under quotation marks – which Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel went into yesterday – he spoke of 45 000 jobs, he also needed this word – is based on the fact that there are very many part-time workers. I do not know how many really strive for part-time work on their own and how many are pushed into part-time solutions. I mean, every Austrian and every Austrian is simply entitled to a full acquisition, just as there is a right to part-time work. This is a labour market challenge that naturally has economic backgrounds. Finally, the plea: All of this could be brought under one hat. Your star hour really shines when you introduce the eco tax. I'm still quoting from the South German newspaper of the 15th century. November 1997: "Green light for eco-taxes – OECD recommends reforms to its Member States." It reads in this article: "In addition, environmental standards, which are of course priority in the field of eco-tax, play a role in the decision-making process, "according to OECD's knowledge, do not play a role." They're always saying that's what's bad for us. Austria's location is devalued if the eco tax is introduced. – No, the OECD says the opposite. She says it doesn't matter. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Which tax should be dropped?]] Please take the eco-tax matters really offensively into your hand, and finally make those nails with heads! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4600	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Maderthaner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4621	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, not only is it really an exciting task, but it was also a real signal from the new Federal Government to unite the sectors of business and work in a place of business, because, Mrs Bures, one cannot secure jobs with nice speeches and promises, but only with a strong economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thank God for the majority of the workers. You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, should also know this after the biggest bankruptcy of all times, which has declared "consumer", through which you have destroyed thousands of jobs, even though you have previously promised all good jobs, and through which you have damaged hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen! These two areas, namely the economy and the labour market, simply belong together. They complement each other, as is quite visible and recognizable in the establishments. There can only be thinking in economic dimensions if there is agreement with the working world, with the labour market and with workers. This also brings better coordination and efficiency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It will also be important in this context, ladies and gentlemen, that this thinking does not lead to headaches but to concrete support. That's important, I think. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] And we will, I hope, be able to prove that in the next few days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Some people pretend that business and work are a contradiction. Economics and work belong together. You know that, too, or at least you should know. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: But the worker stays on the track!]] The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen: Economics and work – I have said that in the beginning – belong together in every respect. The government has been aware of this and has proved it several times during its previous short term. I should also like to point out – and this has already been referred to by the Federal Minister today – how quickly we could agree on the approximation of the rights of workers and employees in the payment of compensation and that we have found a favourable solution for both sides. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Dear Fritz Vergestnich! I know how long we have tried to find a solution to this question. Unfortunately, it did not happen because the SPÖ and the trade union were not prepared to eliminate two injustices at the same time. That's why it went. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You just wanted to change one side. We both wanted to fix injustices. This has also been done for us. I would have been very glad if we had done this a year ago, dear Fritz. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Of course, I am already aware that workers' chamber election is also at the moment. I understand this because we only recently had the election of the Chamber of Commerce. I also understand that it is, of course, a bit painful to see how quickly and successfully this government has solved such important issues that concern workers too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This, by the way, without having been able to enjoy the fair-play rule for the first 100 days, where you say: Let's get her to work! They should show you what they can do! The criticism has been massive since the first day, and that was not quite fair, I guess I can say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Nevertheless, I would recommend that we take a little more objectiveness and judge the government according to its actions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] In any case, it is not true that the workers are the losers of the government programme. Nor is it true that the economy is the big winner of budget renovation. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Who else?]] Mrs. Colleague! You have also called for it in part in your own National Council election campaign: More jobs through healthy businesses! We are also creating these, making businesses even healthier, so that they can better secure jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This promotes competitiveness and Austrian economic growth, thus also revives our labour market and brings even more jobs. Therefore, once again: Economics and work belong together. The better the economy works, the safer work is. Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian companies do not enrich themselves by decommissioning the family tax compensation fund or the insolvency cash fund or the general accident insurance fund. As a result, 11 billion schillings are transferred to the financing of the pension system. That is the fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you add 3.1 billion schilling from unemployment insurance, the part of the economy, to the calculation of replacement times, you will reach 14.3 billion, which will contribute the economy to fiscal consolidation and thus to the benefit of our population. That's the truth, please! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Or think of the planned truck-road pricing. 13.3 billion schillings go at the expense of entrepreneurs. They will not be able to calculate it as easily as some imagine. That's a huge contribution. Of course, employees with motor insurance tax must also make a contribution. But do not constantly conceal the sense of responsibility of the Austrian economy, and do not say that everything is carried out on the back and at the expense of the workers! [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that there is now this efficient way of working together and will continue to exist in the future. It is necessary because we want to continue our growth and stability-oriented path. I should like to say how much a flourishing economy and job security are linked. Ladies and gentlemen, in an example, although Mr Oellinger said that work and business are actually two opposite things, there are, as it were, big differences. Ladies and gentlemen! We decided yesterday on the Supervisory Board of the M.A.N. Group, which I am currently entitled to belong to, that the entire series of small and medium-sized trucks, from 7.5 tons to 16 tonnes, is at M.A.N. is produced and delivered by the plant Steyr. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bravo! Great!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And that is 16 000 to 17 000 units per year! Thus, the M.A.N. Group secures nearly 6 000 jobs in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! That's positive policy! This is economic and workers' policy! This example makes it clear that first economy and work really belong together and that second foreign capital in Austria can be used very positively. In this sense, I would also like to thank M.A.N. for this position. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This direction was recognized as correct, also in the ministry. The Federal Minister and the Secretary of State have thus taken the right course. Not least now, it is up to all of us, ladies and gentlemen, to contribute to ensuring that the economy and work in Austria remain an important concern. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4801	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4822	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I will deal with export, i.e. foreign trade. First of all, however, I would like to address what Mr Puttinger said recently. The gentlemen are pleasant, but it may not be so pleasant if they hear what I have to say to them. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Mr Puttinger! Once more Today, as well as yesterday, you are discussing the behaviour of the 14 EU countries and above all you have attacked my colleagues, my friend Gusenbauer, in a form that is unbearable. I feel the same way I'm talking about. Mr Khol! Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! They know exactly how intensively we are trying to help to alleviate this problem and, if possible, to wipe it out of the table very soon. Mr Khol! You referred to me in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was not necessary at all. A few days after the fourteen made these decisions, I set myself on a plane and flew to Germany. In my capacity as chairman of the German-Austrian parliamentary group – and you know that this is the most intense not only in Austria, but in particular in the German Bundestag, you belong to most of the members – I have tried to hold talks, which was very difficult. With the help of President Fischer, after contacting President Thierse, ladies and gentlemen of all parties, I now have to say that in the German Bundestag, at least to such an extent as to result in an invitation, an invitation that I have long expressed. There were problems again, not from our side. The German colleagues from the various parties agreed on this issue and were not ready to come. After several attempts, they are the invitation of President Fischer and my invitation, 5th. May, on the commemorative day, to come to Vienna to talk, followed. We've been holding these talks. And you know why I feel so terrible, I'm almost missing the words, I'm just being treated badly. You know how much we have tried to build a conversation climate. The result was: Vice-President Anke Fuchs said in her reply to my farewell speech: Yes, we have taken a picture, and we will try – I promise you, by the name of all our colleagues – to animated, think and do something to our colleagues in the Bundestag, but also the members of the Federal Government. Something has bothered me – but I do not criticize it because I know one thing with Chancellor's bowl; let's think together and let's not accuse each other – I've already been annoyed that, for example, at the first meeting with the colleagues of the Free and Green Club, no one was there. It would have been pleasant – I say again, I do not criticise this – because you have heard, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, what moves them. We were presented to us, as I say to you quite openly, on the part of various speakers from various colleagues in this country. We have pointed out that it is not statements made by members of the government, but statements by members of parliament, national councils, officials and so on. But we have become aware of the problem, we have become aware of why it is as it is, and therefore I would have been so glad if representatives of all parties had been there. I have once again expressed an invitation on this occasion in agreement with President Fischer. The invitation was accepted by the German Bundestag within 48 hours. Ladies and gentlemen will come to us again, and we are already invited. I therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen: Come on! Let's not throw one another in front of another something that's not true! Each of us is really trying to do something. I invite you, Mr Khol, Mr Puttinger, to hear from your own colleagues, who were at the talks, what they have to say. Maybe believe. Don't tell me, ask your own people and join us if we continue this path. One thing was really bitter – I say this to the colleagues of the liberals: When I picked up Anke Fox at the airfield, we passed posters. You know what I mean: the posters for the workers' chamber elections. And she asked me, What do you say? That's what I said: What do you want me to say? All of our party are really badly treated. Only, please understand our situation. At the same time, we have to listen to what we are doing badly. In the same breath, we insist that we do something for the country. And that's why I'm appealing to you: Get in here! Now I have not at all come to talk about my main subject, about the export question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To ECOFIN. Mr Puttinger, I must also say one thing to you – I do not want to go into detail again; Rudi Edlinger has already said it –: I have been concerned about statements from the minutes on this sitting. Of course, what you said has also been criticized. But you know what has been particularly criticized – I highly expect Grasser to admit it – that the 2000 budget is not an ideal budget. The criteria for 2003 are not in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. This is a very, very strong accusation. Not only am I criticizing this, but it is also unpleasant for Austria. I call on the government to take appropriate steps already beginning with the implementation of the 2000 budget so that we can reach the goal we have set ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! So that you can also see our willingness to cooperate: Since you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, mentioned the export offensive of the previous government, which has led to the successes we have today – excellent development in 1999, excellent development in 2000, which has exceeded 30 percent export rate; these are huge successes for this country, and I would say to you, Minister Bartenstein, that you are here on 1 January. In March you said that you were building on the results of the policy of the predecessors – I announce here: You will find us with the Constitutional Rules on your side if you change the Foreign Promotion Act so that it will bring further improvement to the export economy, because 1 percent export rate more means 1 percent more employment. And to act in this sense is our policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4901	Mrs Rossmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4925	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Heindl has already set up tourist activities, I now have the honour of talking about Austrian tourism policy. By re-establishing its own State Secretariat for Tourism and Leisure, this Federal Government has fulfilled a long-standing desire of the Austrian tourism industry – at last, I say. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This State Secretariat is based on the establishment of its own section, already in 1. It was established in January 1999, and I can say that this section not only works very motivatedly, but is also very modernly structured. I have the great joy of working with really capable, motivated officials. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Tourism is one of the most important sectors of activity. With 112 million nights and more than 200 billion schilling, he yields sales 6 percent of gross domestic product. I mention these figures because they are constantly overlooked in this House. With the installation of the State Secretariat, tourism has now also gained in the Federal Government the importance which must be attributed to it. With the Secretariat of State, however, tourism finally has a political representation at international level. There are many countries that have their own tourism ministers or state secretaries. With the installation of the State Secretariat, a new basis of cooperation has now been established, whether in bilateral contacts, or in the conclusion of tourism agreements. In this context, I can tell you that we are planning a tourism agreement with China and one with Slovenia. This is also very important in an increasingly smaller world, and China is a bad place for us in the future market. Of course, the impact of globalisation on tourism – I would like to move a little into the past – has already shown what shortcomings still exist in the context conditions in Austria. Austria was confronted with this very early and dramatic, the first time more than 15 years ago, especially in summer tourism. I do not need to carry out the effects, because they are known here. It started a great thinking process. It began to respond to the changed framework conditions, which is the positive thing in this matter, to seek the good even in the crisis and to dive through the crisis. We have succeeded in many areas. Our thanks and our respect for all those entrepreneurs who have had the courage to invest, take a new risk, and revitalise Austrian tourism with quality and offer improvements despite thin equity, despite massive indebtedness, despite the most difficult phases. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A certain rethinking process was also necessary in the banking world. It helped us move in a low interest rate phase for almost a decade. This has enabled the jump to more quality and improved offers. The latest figures prove it, and I am very pleased to say: We had the best winter season for many, many years. Also in March we wrote spectacular numbers, I call just a few: Tirol had a plus of 18.7 percent to record Vorarlberg over 16 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Especially Belgians and Frenchs!]] It is particularly gratifying that especially Dutch, French and Belgian guests have visited Austria as many times as ever, Belgians even by 229 percent more than in the previous year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These are numbers that speak for themselves. In addition, the summer trend here is also very cheap, and I have heard it again yesterday – and it is quite massive that vacation in my own country is the currency. Our travel agencies are even partially overwhelmed because they do not have enough prospectus material available for the Austrian holiday. I believe – and with this I come to the euro parity to the US dollar – that the Austrians are making certain considerations. Especially in the youth sector, there was a strong trend towards driving to the USA. But also the youth will make more holidays in Austria this year. However, the upward trend, which I would like to note very critically, and I have often, even in this House, been accompanied by a dramatic weakness in the equity of businesses, and this is worrying. But also the utilization is worrying, because – this is a number that many here may not know at all – we have an average utilization of only 27 percent in the hotel industry. It is easy to calculate the lack of profitability. It will require all our strength to do everything in this House, but also within the Federal Government, to do everything possible to improve the framework conditions in order to extend the season, to create new offers and thus to achieve a new utilization at reasonable prices so that sufficient profitability can also be achieved. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing we have already succeeded – this was a long-standing wish of the congress economy, and I am a little proud of our section, which really worked at oversonic speed – namely the strengthening of the congress location Austria. A demand for many years has been a risk minimisation for congress organizers in the form of the best possible insurance. We now have guidelines for this, retroactively by 1. May there is a Congress liability. We are the only ones who can offer such a thing next to the Netherlands. This will certainly make a leap forward for the important area of the Congress in Austria, and we know what redirection profitability involves. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to mention three main areas in which we want to act massively. It is this - and this has already been mentioned - first of all in the environmental field. Tourism, of course, is based especially in Austria on an intact environment. This is our capital for the future. It is important here to seek to preserve our environmental resources, but also to encourage tourism companies to look at their environment. There is the eco-label, which is increasingly promoted by the Tourism section, further innovation and cooperation in connection with a modern destination management. However, it is also important to think about new supply groups, about supply structures – here again the modern word "cluster": Wellness cluster, culture cluster. The imagination is not limited. However, coordination with modern market research will also have to be made possible, as will the transfer of professional knowledge. I always notice that very, very much exists, but that far too little is carried on. e-commerce will also play a major role in tourism in the future. It is important to create incentives for all businesses to point to e-commerce, new technologies and their development, so that businesses can invest in these areas as well. Finally, I would like to say that Austria’s advertising is, of course, our national marketing organisation – and I therefore make a clear commitment to Austria’s advertising. You have to clear them up: Is she still going to do all the tasks she's doing now? This will be tested in the future. But the Austrian advertising as a whole must not be doubted, we need it. I would like to thank, from this point of view, all 80,000 companies in Austria, who are always available day and night to the guest who is tirelessly working with over 150,000 employees. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They write the success story of the Austrian hospitality and the Austrian hospitality. This will always be forgotten, and that is why I wanted to thank them again from my point of view. I think that's important. If everyone works together and see optimism into the future, then Austrian tourism will also be able to keep up with growth in the industry. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5008	As the next speaker, Mr Hofmann spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5029	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mr Heindl. I am reducing Mr Heindl's concern about the measures taken by the EU-14, and he enjoys my personal appreciation, which I would like to advance. I believe that his personal efforts to put an end to the sanctions and to make a contribution to them. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Me too!]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, how do you explain it to the people, how do you explain it to the citizen if you, at your Federal Party Day Sharping and Persson, act as guests who are decreed for the continuation of sanctions and for the need to maintain these measures. Hiezu will be applauded at the part-session, and none of you think it is worth even saying a word against it and expressing their opposition to these actions, which are unjust and contradict the spirit of the European Union. That's incomprehensible! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sweam: Hump or dump?]] I also allow myself to address some of the views of the opposition parties because there is a common thread going through. You know, I'm not suffering from memory trauma, and we weren't too long ago – and that during a period of 13 years – opposition party as well. We were a critical opposition party. But a significant difference to your kind of opposition activity, to your political contribution, which I would like to highlight: We have always been a constructive opposition with all criticism and with all the harshness of criticism, while you lose your criticism in general places, take general positions, and try to draw a distortion of the political work of this successful federal government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The tears come before me!]] [[Abg. Swimming: Loss of reality!]] How do you get the Socialists to talk about a tax package – Mr. Edler has done this – and about an imbalance that you have committed to the population of more than 100 billion schilling and that you have not put in place any structural measures, i.e. forward-looking measures? It is said that the increase in electricity prices leads to a new, additional burden. Let's say that the loads amount to 7 billion schilling – we stand for that – but at the same time a discharge of 28 and 29 billion schilling takes place. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's exactly what it's all about!]] Do not criticize a car tax increase if your attack on the "small" citizen would have been to carry out a mineral oil tax increase. Think of all the failures you have to answer for and for which this Federal Government now has to stand straight and to take reorganisation measures. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Give examples when you keep taking the "little" citizen, the "little", into your mouth! Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, has predicted: With a man's income of 20,000 s grossto – he's given the example, and that's understandable – and a woman's income of 10,000 s gross, this family earns 15 000 S more a year. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You voted against this tax reform last June! – Short-term memory!]] Well, this tax reform has been decided by you, but Finance Minister Grasser rightly noted that it would be equal to an invitation to a guest house: You invite, but you don't pay the bill. The bill now pays for this federal government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals:Zechpriegelery!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know the starting point, we know the OECD report, we know Austria's position as a final light in budget development, and we know that much has to be done – an unpleasant starting point admittedly. But there is certainly no redistribution from bottom to top, as you always claim to be without examples, but there is balance, and in the final effect the individual remains more in the bag. In view of the advanced time – within my speaking time – it is certainly also right to point out briefly that measures of the last government coalition have shown themselves to be unfortunate developments that can now be corrected. They have forgotten to mention, in connection with the increase in electricity prices, that it is thought and will also be implemented that the electricity price from 2001, exactly from 1 January 2001 onwards. October 2001, will be completely liberalized. You didn't care. At the time, we pointed out to the ElWOG that it could not be so that some large companies with appropriate consumption would benefit from liberalisation and thus the electricity price reduction and the "small" citizen would have to do so. Here a correction has been made, and it will be fully liberalised in favour of the "small" citizen and the small and medium-sized entrepreneur with 1. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Bartenstein will certainly also need to improve measures put forward by his predecessor. I'm thinking about the Mineral Raw Materials Act here. Here there will have to be changes to give this - as I think - unhappy law a positive direction. I am glad that tourism has a positive development. It has already been mentioned today that the number of nights has increased by 15.1 percent and that the Belgians in particular have a very significant increase, i.e. an increase of 122.9 percent. I believe and am convinced that this government has managed to implement a lot of positive things in 100 days, things that you, ladies and gentlemen, have spoken about social democracy, years and decades, but so that citizens have always lost sight of only sand and have actually made nothing positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5193	Mrs Haidlmayr spoke as next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5215	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! At the outset, I would like to refer to Mrs Rossmann's statement on Austria's tourism. Mrs. State Secretary! I don't think it's necessary for anyone to qualify for your statements when you talk about Austria in the ORF no longer being confused with Australia in the future. That's true, you won't be! I don't need to comment on it any more if you claim that Austria's tourism is supposed to grow. [[Abg. Böhacker: What does it mean?]] That is why he is increasing, Mrs State Secretary, because many Austrians no longer trust abroad. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and to the ÖVP.]] I can also prove to you that people working abroad refuse to speak German there because they do not want to be constantly asked what is going on in Austria. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] And there are enough people who simply have a right to spend their holidays in such a way that they do not have to constantly justify politics in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You haven't been abroad for a long time! That is totally unrealistic!]] These are people who say: I prefer to go to the Neusiedler See for a week, because at least no one will touch me there, which is going on in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Van der Bellen dares to travel abroad too!]] Consider what that means for Austria, and try to see reality, instead of continuing to force the refusal of reality. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But I would now like to talk about employment and the economy. And because Mrs. Partik-Pablé just cried out to me in full throat in my speech, I would like to ask her: When was the last time you made full use of throats for the interests of disabled people? Since you've been in the government, there's nothing left to hear. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Haidlmayr! Always when I was present and it was the subject!]] Mrs. Pablo! When has this volume been used in recent months to reduce the unemployment rate and to increase the tax on compensation in order to create disabled jobs? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Two weeks ago!]] You don't know anything about that now. That, Mrs. Pablo, is really your own quality as you deal with the interests of disabled people, now where you are in the government. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Haidlmayr! If you've been asking me all the time, let me answer you too!]] But perhaps, Mrs Pablo, I will do you wrong, and you will still be here today in order to make full use of your statements for the interests of disabled people, for the increase of the compensation tax, for the creation of training and jobs for disabled people. It may be, we still have more time today. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I do what I want – and not what you prescribe!]] I would also like to refer to the comments made by Mr Maderthaner, who is no longer here, and ask him: Mr. Maderthaner! You have said – I am not your opinion – that economy and work belong together. But you know – and you have tried and successfully implemented this for years as President of the Chamber of Commerce – that in the field of the Chamber of Commerce and in close organizations, no disabled people were asked to recruit. [[Abg. Großruck: What did he say?]] This my statement can be documented. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and of the ÖVP! I would like to ask you, Mrs Pecher, Mr Puttinger, Mr Hofmann and all the other economic operators who are here and who have something to say in your businesses: How high is the fulfilment of the compensation tax in your company? How far is equality in the workplace developed, or are there only aid activities for disabled people in the places you have accordingly occupied? Minister! You have failed to provide in your government paper measures for the continuation and further training of disabled people. You have not only missed it in writing, but you do not have it in the budget that there should be appropriate training places for disabled people in the future. Minister! You are probably still not sure, but I would like to confirm: Unemployment is not a social issue, but unemployment is a question of the economy. This is therefore a question that you, Minister of Labour, as Minister of Labour, have to be clarified as Minister of Economic Affairs, so that this area does not somehow come to the Ministry of Social Affairs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! I really expect you – and not just me, but all disabled people in Austria expect you – to take advantage of the opportunity today, please, and tell us what measures you have put into the first labour market for disabled people, and above all what financial resources you make available for it. If I look at your government paper on the subject of disabled people, apart from the work assistance that is not even defined in a single sentence, there are actually only very special measures in the field of disabled people and work. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: "Exception"?]] I know, Minister, that the ÖVP and the FPÖ have a different human image of people with disabilities than it should already be. [[Abg. Wattaul: How do you know that?]] [[Abg. Aumayr: This is an understatement! Take it back!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's a scandal, that's really a scandal!]] [[More lively calls.]] Her colleague Gatterer proved the last week in a panel discussion by saying: Disabled people are so sweet, so friendly, and you can really learn something from them. And I'll tell you: We refuse to be examples for you. We expect you to see us at last as an equivalent citizen of this country and that you will finally grant us equal opportunities which non-inhibited people of course use for themselves. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Saviour: This is a matter of course for us!]] Just as Mr. Schender is yelling at the front: Well, of course, ladies and gentlemen, of course, I ask you, Mr Schender, whether you have spoken to your father in the last few weeks, perhaps two words. Especially you and your group – not you as a person – do not have the competence in your group, but your group – and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats, Democrats and Democrats) and European Democrats, and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats, Democrats) and European Democrats, and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. May. Trattner: They contribute to the deterioration of the climate in this house!]] Her father, Mr Schender, sent a letter to all the Members of Parliament and to the Minister of the Federal Government in which he is behind the civil servants and behind the people who are now being restricted in their quality of life. [[Call the Freeman:Bring an example!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Minister! I would also like to know from you what it will look like for long-term unemployed disabled people in the future. What have you thought of programmes for your citizens' money, what should disabled people do? I would also like to remove the SPÖ and Mr Vergestnich from their responsibilities as union presidents, but ask them to fight for the rights of disabled people, especially in the labour market. It cannot be expected that more and more disabled people in protected workshops will be employed at a zero rate without having a social security income without being insured in old age. Separate yourself from your idea that the field of work of disabled people is a matter of the countries and a matter of the social resorts! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's not true!]] Remember: Disabled people also have a right to work, only this right is denied to them or they have to work at 1 s per day or much less. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Loud submissions!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Can you prove that?]] That should not be necessary in this Republic, and that is a scandal in this Republic! Finally, be prepared to declare the so-called employment therapies obsolete, and make them decent jobs for disabled people so that they can secure their existence as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5558	Next, Mr. Ing. Mr Maderthaner said that he was correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5582	Dear Mrs Haidlmayr! High house! If you claim that I would have sent a letter that reads that disabled people should not be hired, then say the untruth! Whether conscious or unconscious, I do not know, but this claim is, at least, incorrect, there is no such writing. They have also addressed someone who is always in favour of the disabled. [[Abg. Murauer: Sourry!]] Go to my farm! Since I got this business, I've always hired disabled people. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] Twelve years ago, I had a deafum who had nowhere else got a job, because he's just deaf, learn to be a neon glass blower. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'd like to invite you: Look And don't talk that nonsense about it! Only three or four months ago did I take up a man whose foot was injured; he is now with me. [[Call the SPÖ:Factual correction! Actual correction!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5643	Deputies! You're done with the actual correction. [[I should like to say a few words about this. Ing. Maderthaner.]] Mr Schwarzböck spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5673	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr, I have been admiring your political commitment for years and, in particular, your commitment to disabled people. However, the flat-rate allegations they have just made to President Maderthaner, who he was pleased to answer himself, are not to be reconciled with this. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: (in the direction of Abg. Haidlmayr, who is about to leave the hall) Stay! Listen to me!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr returns to her place.]] If you make such profound accusations, you can't hold them in general! You would have to specify the newsletter or date exactly so that the accused could even have the chance to oppose such a flat-rate claim something more concrete. I would also have been able to point out, without the personal reference of President Maderthaner from my years of friendship, friendship and cooperation in the social partners, in which one does not always have the same situation of interest, what he himself has said is that he has been an employer for people with disabilities for decades. However: If President Maderthaner had not been present in the hall, then I do not know how one could have opposed something different before the many ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and also the colleague in the House of this package charge than the claim that I personally would not have believed such an accusation on the basis of my acquaintance and friendship with Leo Maderthaner anyway. That's not the style of the struggle that's bringing us on! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Those who raise such accusations – no matter what the subject – would, in my opinion, have the moral obligation to become more concrete in order to give the accused the opportunity to answer them in addition to a flat-rate defence. Mrs Haidlmayr, I am sorry, too, because with this style you may be showing the sympathy for you, which I would like to express once again – I admire your commitment to disabled people in politics and in general! –, dangerously, because discussing this kind of thing is common to you now. And that would certainly not serve the matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Very right!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is understandable that the first budget of a new federal government, which was launched under the motto "Rerule Austria" a few months ago, almost 100 days ago, leads to emotional conflicts here. In particular, in the "Economic and Work" chapter, we should, however, take an intensive look at the different views on these profound reforms and take a look at those lump-sum notes, as we are currently dealing with in politics, in terms of content or in general, because few chapters are so suitable to show what it is all about. The debate yesterday and also those on the budget speech of the Minister of Finance have shown that we are basically also given internationally and across the party landscape: This country urgently needs structural changes in order to remain what it has always been, for the Austrians and also in the European context, that is, we need these planned structural changes not only for the standards in our country, but also in order to bring in Europe what Europe expects of us. I only recall budgetary policy and other European contexts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I have co-negotiated in subcommittees those profound structural changes which the Government has taken up in 1995 to 1999. I would just like to take two of these amendments, namely the liberalisation of the trade regulation in two steps, and the referral to the issue of the release of the electricity market as a preparation for the liberalisation of the entire energy market – gas is the next step after the much debated ElWOG. I have often admired our Group spokesperson Karlheinz Kopf, with how much skill, nerves and strength he had at the time conducted the negotiations in the Subcommittee, because it was then told us that transitional periods of five or six years would not be enough to enable the release of the electricity market in terms of the economic situation of companies and the impact on the many thousands of employees of the ETUs. In the end, we have found ourselves a compromise that sets out this liberalisation with transitional arrangements. In this context, I would like to remind the then Minister Farnleitner, who shared responsibility from the government side, but also the then Minister for the Environment Bartenstein and the Minister for Agriculture Molterer, who were also concerned because the topics of energy policy, electricity market and energy market release have a key role to play in many structural changes – not only in terms of the performance of the economy, but also in many steering functions that I may be able to address briefly. Something was surprising for me then – and this would have to connect us across all the political borders –: In those areas where fears were greatest, the transition periods have not even been used to 20 percent, because after the release of the market in a segment, we are actually in favour of total liberalisation within one year of the law's in-force paces, and we are already involved with small customers in 2001. This is a reform that was essential. She should make us brave. That is why I would like to conclude by making an appeal to the opposition parties – my speaking time is about to end: Ladies and gentlemen, your request, namely to fully grant the necessary social framework in terms of liberalisation, in terms of steering, without liberalizing, is not feasible for this economy and for this society. Let us therefore find a common way and say: International circumstances require liberalisation, and what is essential to us in terms of social policy and governance is that we support these liberal markets as accompanying measures. In the last ten or fifteen years, I have had to carry a lot of things – I say quite openly – as a farmer's representative, in which I would have preferred to have been a monopoly or a demarcated market. But it was not sustainable, we had to take part in the full liberalisation of the European internal market, but we also found understanding of our accompanying measures. And I say stone and clear: If, in the next step, what the countries have gladly begun with the feed-in tariff regulations, i.e. with steering measures, does not allow the free competition of ecological and other indispensables, such as security of supply in the most remote regions, to continue to maintain such accompanying measures, then we have basically set an example of how we can follow in many areas in order to allow competitiveness and market economy to be liberalized and at the same time to ensure social compensation, security of supply, environmental responsibility with other accompanying measures. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who pays?]] Please? Mr Oberhaidinger, I cannot answer this in half a minute. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Who pays?]] But I know hundreds of examples where even money is left if you have the effect on those affected in other ways than monopoly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The market economy, in Europe and worldwide, has proved a hundred times in globalisation that this way, namely to control market conditions in such a way that there is a competition to finance social policy with the higher value creations that arise in such an economic order, brings a higher social standard than your illusion, to believe that in the global economy, the monopoly economy and the financing of the highest social security under various social and economic conditions are further compatible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I therefore conclude by saying: I would like to take the courage of the Federal Minister and of the ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in conjunction with all the other committees concerned, from the experience we have had in the legislative period 1995 to 1999 under another government, and to take it into account in this new period, perhaps in order to show even greater confidence in the international realities, which are also inconsistible for Austria, while at the same time respecting the Austrian political culture of consensus in the broadest social spheres and also the old social partnership tradition with completely new forms.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5809	As the next speaker, Mr Oberhaidinger spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5830	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to return to the statements made by a previous speaker, namely Mr Hofmann. I thought he would address at least some energy policy issues that concern the budget, but he did not allow the EU sanctions to be reheated so that they would not disappear completely from the memory of the House. In this context, he has also said that he – and I believe him – does not suffer from memory wounds. But if, in the same breath, he claims that the liberals in the opposition had taken a critical but constructive role, then I believe that he is claiming that he is not suffering from memory wounds, quite enormously and eminently in question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is also the case with Mr Gaugg, who, in the early hours of the morning, complained about everything that happened after the 4th century. February of this year is bad, and everything that happened before has been good. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, vice versa, a shoe from it also becomes: You've got it before the 4th. This year, too, there was no good hair left to the government; everything was bad. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's not right!]] At that time, the ÖVP was still in the government. I would recommend to you, whether you are a memory wound or not: Please read the minutes of your speeches, then you will see how you behaved in the opposition. [[Call to the Freeman:Do you have something to say on the subject as well?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] To my previous speaker, Schwarzböck: Mr Schwarzböck! If you sit in the glass house – so beautiful – you should not throw stones, not even pebbles! That's very dangerous! So if someone from the monopoly in the E-E-Economie, who is happy to break up in the course of liberalisation, speaks and is also a relatively negative one, then he should think about it – and remember it! – that nothing has yet been liberalised in agriculture, so there is still a monopoly economy there. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: Excuse me, what are you talking about?]] There will certainly be another opportunity to talk about this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few words about what really becomes budget-effective, namely energy liberalisation. [[Abg. Murauer: This is not worthy of you!]] Mr Murauer, you will certainly have the opportunity to report whatever you have to say from this speaker's desk. [[Abg. Murauer: Usually this is not your style!]] I can remind you that this is now only more simple party member before and during the election campaign in 1999 very strong for low electricity prices, especially for the small people. Of course, we all knew at that time that he announced something that would happen anyway, but not because he announced it, but because liberalisation would bring with it a reduction in electricity prices, but whose trigger is not Mr Haider, but the EU directive, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Aumayr: But you would have prevented it for another three years!]] Given the current electricity price situation in Carinthia, I can say: A mountain has circled, but a little mouse was born in Carinthia! [[Abg. Aumayr: The first year where electricity prices have been lowered!]] So quite a lot has really not happened down there, especially for households and for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Call to the liberals: But you must have been somewhere else!]] And when I look at what's going on with the energy levy... [[New call of the abg. Aumayr.]] – Dear colleague Aumayr, everywhere you really don’t know each other, stay with your agriculture, for this you are a specialist, I admit to you. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's what I know!]] But I am now talking about the electricity price and the energy levy. [[Abg. Aumayr: The fact that the electricity prices in Carinthia have been lowered is a fact!]] The energy levy should or will be increased from 10 sizes to 26 sizes per kilowatt hour, according to the federal estimate. In other words, it costs households as well as small and medium-sized enterprises around 2 billion more schilling. [[Call to the liberals: Again, wrong!]] It would cost even more or bring the budget even more, would not be for 500 industrial customers – Mr Minister, you know that! – be covered, which means that around 700 million schillings return to the payers. Here, too, households and small and medium-sized enterprises pay the price! For example, in Vienna, for example, the electricity price must not be lowered so that this does not become so visible. It will only be possible to do so if the energy tax is decided, because then Plus and Minus will be back to zero, that is, the customer will not notice any reduction in the electricity price, but also little of the energy tax. [[Abg. Egghart: You are misinformed! Ask Mrs Ederer!]] This is the way to make price policy on the outside. Ladies and gentlemen! The electricity tax does not relieve labour costs, nor is it – you should look at it carefully – ecologically. I can briefly explain this in the example of combined heat and power. In Linz, for example, 40 percent of households are connected to district heating, and this combined heat and power brings an emission reduction of 300 000 tons of CO2 per year. These combined heat and power are already very much at risk of price decline, and the energy levy or the new electricity tax will further aggravate this situation accordingly. Minister! I can therefore ask you not to forget the combined heat and power, and to think of the fastest solutions. In Germany, action has been very rapid in this respect. I could imagine that for the combined heat and power concentrations, the energy levy, in any case for the electricity sector, will be eliminated, perhaps also to consider taking in the combined heat and power concentrations under certain circumstances in that certificate model, as is currently contained in the ElWOG Novelle, and possibly in the case of small hydropower the percentage figure envisaged will decrease somewhat. In my opinion, the contribution to the Kyoto target would be easier to achieve through combined heat and power than through small hydropower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6046	Mr Haigermoser spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6067	High house! Mr Oberhaidinger! I don't want to continue the memory-wound debate you started with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] With regard to the ElWOG story, please say that you had decided here to introduce liberalisation for everyone only in 2003. After 100 days, you should not have forgotten what was present in brake blocks in relation to the overall situation in the energy sector. We measured you in our opposition time by the actions. But you have not even begun to measure us by the deeds, but you have said from the outset: It's what happens to us, we're against it once, in case of doubt. – This is the qualitative difference between our policies and those that are operated by you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Do you believe what you said?]] Ladies and gentlemen! So we didn't do everything bad. Moreover, I do not want to play as a reserve agricultural speaker, but where is there a monopoly in agriculture? Maybe you're still inventing Sowchosen and Colchosen in Austria, which wouldn't surprise me, but it doesn't exist either. [[Abg. Edler: What about Raiffeisen? What's that?]] I just want to hold that once. Ladies and gentlemen! So economic policy is a little more than class struggle and also a little more than the prelude of old Marxist hats from the past! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If you are looking for a new role for social democracy – you have not yet found it – the old hat of the 35-hour week, because it has also implemented this communist government in France to the detriment of the economy there, especially the middle class, it is not particularly creative! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also not creative if you are now able to get the machine tax out of the clamot box again – in the faith, there or there to score with it. That's past! [[Abg. Edler: What about the working party FPÖ?]] That's past! Future is innovation! Whoever does not allow new things will become the bankruptcy administrator of the existing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, we do not meet at this level! We are for innovation, we are for ordoliberalism, for social quality, and not for those policies you have pursued and through which one million Austrian citizens have landed at the poverty line. [[Abg. Edler: Mogel packs!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's your balance, we didn't invent! I am putting you there and there quite good will. That is why in our opposition time we have also agreed to requests without number that have come from you. [[Abg. Edler: "Action Fairness"!]] We've seen something reasonable about it, so we're on board. But that's why you go here and say that you let the fried pigeons fly through the world, it's not fair! Of course you can't entirely acquit the ÖVP! You went this way a biterl with sluggish course and attracted hand brake in the past as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black goats.]] This clearly led to a blockade policy, you have blocked each other in the last two, three years, cow-handling closed. [[Abg. Aumayr: (in the direction of ÖVP) You went along well!]] And what has come out of it, we know: a huge budget deficit, which we are now – and with it I come to the positive – ready to work out together. So you should talk about the basics. Who's the engine in the economy? – I say: In principle, the middle class, whereby I mean not only entrepreneurship, but also the employees. This middle class is simply the key pillar in employment, innovation and the development of future jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore welcome, in particular, the pay-side reduction programme of the Coalition because it guarantees the development of the middle class. Even Ludwig Erhard postulated this, he said: The market economy needs to be built from the base by giving SMEs freedom of action and equal opportunities, but not public subsidies. That's our credo, too. We need equal opportunities, and we want to reduce taxes as soon as we have reorganised the budget – it is already a good piece of this work – and then we will get away from subsidies, because the money is earned to finance social balance. This is our philosophy, ladies and gentlemen, and our medium-term goal. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact is that Austria has developed into a functional state under the leadership of the Socialists. That is why, Mr Oberhaidinger, there was resistance in the EVUs and everywhere: Nothing must happen! For God's sake, there are jobs destroyed! No mergers, no joint processing of the market, incitement, closure! – Then from monopoly in agriculture to phasers, please have been really poor! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Sophie Bauer]] I'm sure you didn't think of that until you took the floor, but you didn't write it down. [[New calls from Members Oberhaidinger and Sophie Bauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The fact that you still overtitle this official rule with "social state" is the real community in this discussion! Functionary state is not the same social state yet, that is quite different. Ladies and gentlemen! This official state has provided us with a lot of things, so it must be noted that socialist economic policy has failed, not only in Austria, but throughout Europe. In connection with this failed policy, the weakness of the euro can also be seen. This is a problem that we have through it. That is why you are trying to sidetrack us from this weakness of socialist economic policy. But it's never too late! That's why I think we should do a lot of things. Even so-called "littleties" in the overall mosaic of a positive, liberal, ordoliberal economic policy belong to the work. It has already been mentioned today, and it is very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, to quote a sentence from a study by the Ministry of Economic Affairs of July 1997 on the subject of local care. In this it says: "The Austrian local supply discussion has been in the circle for years. With sentimentality, no problem is solved." - Quote. Of course, that doesn't solve a problem! It also says that the municipalities of these things should also accept themselves. Today, however, the municipalities take the form of history that the mayor says: We are now building this wholesale center with us, and when the local supply in the neighbouring community dies, I am the sausage! So it happens in Klagenfurt with METRO-Markt and so on. The whole thing is under the motto: Well, that's just competition, that's market. – This is no longer a market, ladies and gentlemen, if the... [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: More market, but less competition! Yes, yes! ...]] The Freedom Party also needs a rethinking in the municipalities. We are in discussion, it is important, Mr. Cot, that we accept these things – not that we feel sorry for the "aunt-emma-store", but that we work towards rethinking so that we can return to a positive attitude. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can only mention it more like this: Commercial reform, Austria-houses – a central issue that we must address, often promised by the old government – Chamber reform. There will also be a need to do something to reach an offensive location policy. Only then do we have the opportunity to meet these challenges of the future. I could still say in the statement by the then Minister of Finance, Rudolf Edlinger, on the economic situation of the 8th century. I fell into my hands on this paper on July 27, 1997. What he promised, the Rudi Edlinger! A stand, he just noticed me, I would like to quote, page 12: "No one can afford to spend much more than he takes." In 1997, Mr Edlinger postulated this, but then did exactly the opposite! And now he's wondering that we've got a financial scrapping pile to work on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] We have you to measure your actions. The words were good, but you acted differently, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Edler:... surplus!]] That is why this change of government is good for this country! Although this government has a really big backpack to carry – I say now – paving stones, we will not throw them against the political opponents, but we will take advantage of the opportunity, together with the citizens, to launch a new policy for Austria's economic location. I think we've made good progress over the last 100 days and we're going to put a few things on the table.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6268	The next item is the report by Mr Schwemlein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6289	High house! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! On the subject of tourism, the Secretary of State has already sent us a few messages. In my opinion, it is important to deal with tourism, because this industry is particularly sensitive. If a natural disaster happens, the price-performance ratio is not correct or there are internal political unrest in a country, there are immediately changes in the number of nights. I would like to say from this point of view: Who would have thought that Austria would once be in the role of damaging tourism because of the domestic situation? None of us would ever have dreamed of Austria suffering from such a situation, especially because the consequences are inevitable, Mr Kukacka. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: There is nothing to be noticed about the numbers!]] They are therefore inevitable because we do not know how the potential guests will react. We only know where there are already burglaries. I have taken several newspapers, but I only show you one, because the Secretary of State has spoken about Congress Tourism, the "Salzburger Nachrichten": "Congress doesn't dance." – I could bring further examples of this. Why am I addressing that? That is why I do this, ladies and gentlemen, because this Federal Government is negated not only in the tourism sector, but also in many others the problem, the situation is playing down, the situation is sometimes ridiculous, rather than seriously thinking about how to deal with damage limitation. I was very surprised to hear from the Secretary of State as a positive: Finally, there is a new section dealing with tourism. Yeah, they've been there since 1. January 1999, but there has not yet been a State Secretary Rossmann, but we have done so, because we have also recognized the importance of giving tourism the appropriate importance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that, in the light of Congress tourism, it is stressed as positive that there is this possibility of Congress liability, one must also question: Why is there this possibility? – That is why not only one organizer has cancelled after another, but also threatens us to stop holding congresses in Austria. The absolute highlight and disappointment for me was – the disappointment because I guessed colleagues Puttinger on and on, so I was deeply disappointed – that the head of the Chamber of Commerce of Salzburg said that an economic expert, as he says, that one who works in the tourism industry, does not lose a word about the drinking tax. I was also deeply disappointed that the competent State Secretary, who, as one reads, is a so-called scene host – so-called gastronomy – does not say anything about the drinking tax because she is the one and the entire high-quality gastronomy that will suffer from this new drinking tax scheme. [[State Secretary Rossmann: I am not responsible!]] I am disappointed that you have not said anything about this problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am disappointed that, as so-called experts, you are not saying that there will be a massive price increase in the high gastronomy, only because you have brought the beverage tax into a mogel pack and in addition the communities of Austria by billions – billions of schilling! – make poorer, although in the past these communities have repeatedly proved that they are the local authorities that invest the most money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can tell you that I was more than disappointed, not just as far as the situation of the drinking tax is concerned. I was surprised at a point. First, the positive: Mrs State Secretary, I welcome the fact that you have stressed the importance, the need for advertising and also its existence in the future. That's all your opinion. Of course, I was surprised that you did not say anything about how you actually deal with the calamities of Mr Macho, that you did not say anything about how you deal with the responsibility of the ex-minister Farnleitner. I was really surprised not to hear from you, where this government is constantly saying where it needs to be saved wherever you have to turn every shilling. But in this painful matter, in which Exminister Farnleitner has so hatefully failed, 20 million schilling are probably thrown out at the expense of the so-called small, honest taxpayers. You have not said anything about this, but we here in the House expect you to take a position, we expect you to make a clear confession, because otherwise we will not get the impression that this takeover of the old load and the to death silence of this situation was your admission price to the State Secretariat.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6359	Mr Puttinger has made an actual correction. Please note the Rules of Procedure and start with the wording of the sentence to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6383	Mr Schwemlein here claimed that a decline in tourism had taken place due to the domestic situation. The fact is, tourism has increased by 10.4 percent. The fact is that an increase of 2.3 percent is recorded throughout the winter season. The fact is that sales in tourism have increased to 88.3 billion schilling. This corresponds by far more to the increase in value than to the increase in earnings. [[Abg. Swimmlein: (keeping several newspapers in height) Lauter schwarz Zeitungen! Louter Conservative Newspapers!]] If he's based on newspaper reports – because he's showing them to me now – that's his fault. He himself is guilty if he does not follow the actual reports, but reports that are wrong. I am also correcting: The beverage tax is not a mogel pack. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6424	Mr Kukacka spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6445	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I do not really want to comment in detail on Mr Schwemlein's comments. I'm not a tourist expert. But I noticed one thing, Mr. Cot: Today, they have been "surprisingly surprised" on several occasions, such as the number of tourists or the fact that the Secretary of State is not supposed to have solved some of the problems. One thing I have to tell you: If a politician, a parliamentarian, is constantly surprised, this shows that he has little competence and is little informed. And that's what you've said. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Just like you at the budget! You were surprised, too!]] We're not surprised about the budget, you were surprised. You were surprised that your own finance minister obviously told you the untruth most of the time. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And we've got to get rid of that now! But we will do so in the interests of Austria, which you can be sure of, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: You'll immediately pour the child out with the bathing water!]] Budget consolidation is never pleasant. The economic researchers have now confirmed this, and the European Union has confirmed it to us. But there is no alternative to budget consolidation. The alternative would be to continue making debt, to consume the future of our children today, and we as the People's Party cannot account for that. That is why we have also taken a real turn in fiscal consolidation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The time of fiscal consolidation is also the time of the high economy for those better knowers who constantly explain to us why something is not going, but who never tell us how it should actually be. And that is also the problem of this opposition. Although you have criticized many things here – I even understand many things – but you never and in no way really told us where you would put the alternatives. Where's your budget consolidation program? Where do you want to save? You have been silent about this, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, are You're not a credible opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Many of the proposals of the opposition, the Greens, the SPÖ, belong – I would also like to say that – to the Mottenkasse of economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] All these proposals or most of them have proved that they cannot be implemented. Many of the social democratic governments in Europe – I am thinking of Blair, Schröder, Eichel – have long since turned away from these proposals, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Regovernment Austria is primarily about having courage to have courage for the truth. That, ladies and gentlemen, seems very important to me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You lacked this courage to the truth. You've always gone past the financial requirements, you've always said half the truth, you've always gone the way of the slightest resistance, and that must finally end in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The population – and I say that here too – accepts it when you tell her the truth. The population also recognises the change in the reform that the government has so far indicated. Ladies and gentlemen! Economy also has something to do with psychology. Today – you see that – the economy is starting. It again has confidence in the framework conditions given to it by the policy. We today have a high level of employment and a low level of unemployment. This also applies to young people, women and older workers. We will continue this economic policy course because there is nothing more unsocial than unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. All measures to prevent unemployment must have priority, and they are our priority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Economic growth is an important engine for employment. The economic research institutes have now raised the forecasts for economic growth again, for the entire legislative period, ladies and gentlemen. And they have also corrected the number of unemployed people down, which shows that we have put in proper action here and that the confidence of the economy in the course of this government has increased clearly and strongly! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But, Mr Edlinger, we still have important structural measures to take. For example, we have to secure pensions in the long term. We probably did not need today's pension reform debate, if you had not largely prevented or watered down the pension reform already negotiated in Parliament by the socialist trade union officials in 1997. They obviously did not understand the signs of time. I would like to say to you, Mr Edler, in this context: Of course, in addition to public officials, the railways also have to carry the new pension right. Of course, if the retirement age is increased everywhere in the public sector by means of appropriate legal measures, railways also have to pay their tribute. It cannot be accepted that they will continue to retire at 53 years of age with 83 percent of the final salary and without retirement provisions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For us – and I say this quite clearly – it is a requirement of solidarity and equal treatment among workers that a corresponding pension reform is now being implemented among the railways. No one would understand it – and not the social democratic workers in the other areas – if the railways were not also involved. We also do not want a two-class society, ladies and gentlemen, in pension reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, you also have a completely false access to privatisation. They say: If we privatize, then foreigners will come and transfer our Austrian jobs abroad! – This is a schizophrenic argumentation. We are advocating that foreign investors are coming to Austria and that is where we are investing accordingly and creating jobs. What would it be like – I am from Upper Austria – to look at the economic location of Steyr, there would not be the expansive BMW engines there and there would not be – Madethaner has pointed out – the new M.A.N truck production? Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You're totally on the wrong steamer here in economic policy. Thank God there is a new government that has made a real change of course!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6603	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6625	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! If one lets the previous budget debate pass, one must say: The coalition has so far made two main statements: Firstly, it was mostly about EU sanctions to get away from the budget, and secondly, when it came to the budget, it was always about the fact that everything that is bad in the budget has roots in the past, with the previous government – not with the previous government, but on the basis of the social democrats in the previous government. And everything that's good has brought about the new government. This story believes you, ladies and gentlemen, but no one else. The Minister of Finance comes back from Brussels and believes that he should have taken a stand for his predecessor. I remember that the last Edlinger budgets have always been fulfilled precisely in the sense of Maastricht. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's where you remember wrong!]] [[Further calls.]] I do not remember wrong, Mrs Colleague, but rather I think that the EU's call is aimed at fiscal consolidation, which you have promised to achieve by the year 2003. At the same time, however, with your government pact, you have decided to give great support to large companies. And, of course, the EU is wondering how this consolidation should work. For that, I think, there was the ruffle. From the beginning, remember: The ÖVP can remember nothing more, what before the 3rd. The Council of Ministers adopted 13 budgets unanimously on 13 October 1999. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! If you agreed to something you didn't know, if you didn't know what you agreed to, that was negligent, I mean. Every member of the association throughout Austria will confirm this to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The memory is a matter of its own anyway. Mr Haigermoser mentioned it earlier, in all Sunday's speeches: We must necessarily support small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in the area of structurally weak regions; Keywords: Close-up, country guest house. The budget, however, contains substantial cuts in support for small and medium-sized enterprises. The reduction in discretionary expenditure alone reduced the allocation of 215 million schilling. The BÜRGES action was reduced by 80 percent. Is this the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises in structurally weak areas? - I don't think so. You just forget about it in this budget and you say: There are other compensatory measures. - That's right. 15 billion schilling is about to give you the ventures as They have promised this, they want to relieve it, but small and medium-sized enterprises will not receive the lion's share of it. By withdrawing the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises at risk It is a massive job creation in the rural areas I am talking about, the few jobs that exist there. And on the other hand, you take from the pendulums, from the workers, grab them deep into the bag. That's your concept of social justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that's not enough. The new beverage tax solution also contributes greatly to the financial weakening and famine of rural communities. There you can't say: That's just a billion schilling anyway! – Who says how the drinking tax continues to be refunded? I don't hear anything about that. There is icy silence. For the small communities, some ten thousand schilling from the drinking tax are very important if they no longer know how to compensate their household. It is even interesting to hear what is going on in the beverage tax area. My colleagues, mayor of the ÖVP, have become very quiet in this regard. These new regulations are being taken into account by kneading teeth. Today, the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" can be read in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" that there was a protest of the Upper Austrian mayor in Upper Austria, in Gmunden. It's called: "Protest with empty pockets." This article also lists the mayor's demands. And at the end of this report, I quote literally: "Helmut Mödlhammer noted that the protest strengthened the community." So now I don't know. Are you in favour of strengthening municipal finances or are you opposed to them? It is not only Mr. Klubobmann Khol that is reserved to quote the Bible in which it reads: "Your speech is yes, yes, no, no." So yes: away with the finances from the communities – or no: the municipal finances must not be weakened? Mr Mühlbachler spoke yesterday about the fact that if the destruction of rural regions continues, it will result in a departure of young people. – At the top of the gallery today there is a school class from the Mühlviertel, from Rainbach near Freistadt, from the district of Deputie Mühlbachler. 14-year-olds will have a problem finding work in the future. Once the boys are gone, they will no longer return to this region. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have long thought about what the term "social balance" or "social security" should mean. – There is no such thing for those regions that I have spoken about. And in the government there are different opinions, which is to be called "social security". The Minister of Finance said that he was in favour – the Minister of Economic Affairs, on the other hand, does not want to know anything about the matter of karenz money. I then came up with what that means: For this coalition, "social security" means that you will certainly meet the socially weak.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6709	The next speaker is Mr Egghart. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6731	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Mr Oberhaidinger, you have previously claimed that there will not be any electricity price reductions in Carinthia, although it has been promised. – I can tell you here that under Carinthian head of state Haider with 1. In July 2000, a law will come into force, which will result in electricity price reductions of 30 to 40 sizes per kilowatt hour, mainly due to the fact that there are different sizes of the Carinthian tariffs. And that's why I'm saying, between 30 and 40 sizes. In Carinthia, rents have also been reduced in recent weeks and months, by up to 1 000 p. If, for example, you, Mrs Mertel, compare this with Tyrol, you will find that rents in Tyrol are 50 percent higher. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] So: Promise and not broken! Mr Eder has here said that this savings package is without equal. In this context, I would like to remind you of the savings packages of the years 1996 and 1997, which included 27 and 47 billion schillings. And you also said, Mr Eder, that the winners are now only the rich and the housekeepers. – To this end, I should like to say: The savings package of this Federal Government is more than balanced. As I have already said: The election promise for a reduction in electricity prices is also met by the promotion of electricity price liberalisation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Mr Edlinger, I will come to speak to you anyway, exactly on you with your budget hole of 109 billion schilling! Mr Edlinger, you were, so to speak, second election as Minister of Finance. Her party president wanted to win Karl Stix for this post at the time, but in Vienna it was obviously a pleasure to get rid of you, Mr Edlinger, as the Financial Councillor. One was glad because in Vienna it was such that the budget under City Councillor Mayr was still balanced, while in your time the budget deficit in Vienna increased by 10 percent. You, Mr Edlinger, really cannot press ahead with these things. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Edellinger.]] On the comments of Mr Eder: At the beginning of his speech, he said – and that was typical of his entire speech – that there would be a cheaper sale. – Please, how naive do you think the members of this Federal Government?- Oh, my God! It has been clearly explained here that international rating agencies are entrusted with this matter. It is quite clear that all these problems will be solved in the right way! And don't forget about the SPÖ: Even your former Minister Strings have called for privatisation in the order of 40 billion schilling for this year. The topic of pension cuts. What was it all about in this edellinger package? – There were much harder measures in this, but we had to draw the "poisonous teeth" from the liberals, so to speak. That's the truth, even if you don't want to hear it! On the comments of Mr Oellinger, who said that there was now a total boom of the economy that only the capitalists would be richer and richer. What's the real thing? – There is a consolidation of the economy, and there is primarily an export success. [[Call the Greens.]] This is the typical mobbing that you operate – and nothing else! It was just as much as what came from your group at the time, and I am speaking specifically to this whole bookmaker thing now when you also wanted to rob this profession of its existence. Typical mobbing of the greens, but please. And that's similar to what you always try with your fascism club. Unfortunately, they do not keep the binding one, but always the separating one at the centre of your policy. [[Call the Greens.]] I would also like to say the following: Think of the great export profits that are now being made, supposedly due to the dollar strengths and the euro weakness. – Dear friends, there are unwarranted witnesses who predicted some time ago that we should first ensure that all the basic conditions are met before the introduction of the euro. And this has not happened! The American economy is forecasting much stronger and faster than the European dollar, and the total money in dollars is 67 percent, says Alan Greenspan. Now it has fallen to 65 percent in the short term, but again, according to the forecasts, it will rise to 70 percent of the dollar volume. The topic of tourism. There are major problems in certain farms in the thin financial cover of these companies. These plants, however, have been bled out by your socialist economic policy, which must already be said. That is why these companies today only have an equity ceiling of 2 to 3 percent. And the refinancing times in these farms are up to 60 years today! That's how reality looks! The problem with AUVA. I believe that this reduction in contributions by 0.2 percent is fully justified. It must not be forgotten what was previously imposed on entrepreneurs when it was an evaluation of the jobs with which this was done – and once again to the detriment of the Austrian economy, when it was once again acted upon in the pre-emptive obedience of the European Union! This is so far that you have to measure flicker values of neon lamps and more. Thank God the number of accidents at work has decreased, and the risk of damage has therefore fallen considerably. For this reason too, it is justified that there will be a reduction in insurance contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! As in itself, I felt that Mrs. Dr. Moser had taken up the issue of eco-tax here again. However, we must also be clear as follows: The introduction of an eco-tax can only be done in the European equinox, otherwise there would be a further significant deterioration in the competitiveness of Austrian businesses. Making clusters is a positive thing, not a question, but there will certainly not be clusters in the field of environmental policy right away. And I would also like to stress: Under this federal government, there will be no Husch-Pfusch laws, but properly elaborated and thought-out laws. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And that is why it is necessary – in contrast to the past – to discuss and negotiate these things precisely. But you may have noticed how quickly this Federal Government succeeded in creating a proper budget. Despite the broken-out computer cable in Mr. Edlinger's office, this Federal Government has managed to create a balanced budget in the fastest possible way, and – my previous speaker, Mr Kukacka, has already done this – to find a balanced solution to the most pressing problems in the fastest possible way. We liberals have always been those who have shown that the pension reform you made at the time will not last. We have also begun to clean up the budget. And we are also those who in Europe represent our country in the right form. It is only then that we will be able to see what this government is doing, and I am convinced that: It will still be apologised to have treated this government this way at first.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6851	The next speaker was Mr Kiermaier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6872	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Financial policy and economic policy have a lot to do with distribution or redistribution. There is the ancient realization that only so much can be distributed, so much has been achieved. Unfortunately, there is still no miraculous increase in money and property. Since everyone or, better to say, the vast majority of the people, no matter in any position, are involved in the added value of this country, everyone would like to have the portion of the cake due to him, which, I believe, is completely legitimate. But it is also an old realization that these cake pieces are not all the same size. But it is also not quite wrong to realize that if one gets such great pieces that they can't eat them, at least for the other a certain minimum size should be left with these pieces, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] That's what we're doing with the redistribution. However, redistribution is also an important factor in economic policy because it has a great deal to do with purchasing power, consumer goods industry, trade and commerce. It is of utmost interest to an economy that, as it is so beautiful, the money comes from among the people. Only a well-floating consumer goods industry is a guarantee for this. The normal citizen, who doesn't worry if he's done the right thing about his shares, robs sleep, it's the one who's making the wheel of the economy turn. And especially the small farms of this country, to which I do not stand up without pride, know that if the so-called ordinary citizen does well, they also have a secure existence. The conclusion from all these considerations is that we should try more to ensure that the lower levels of income are not over-dimensioned to the cash register, as the increases in taxes, fees and taxes are much more striking to the little ones than the big ones. But it is the little ones who represent the much larger layer of buyers. So it's the famous sawing on your own branch when you just ask these people to cash out because, as I said, money can only be spent once. With all these increases, which we are currently experiencing and which are not insignificant, the pulse rate of the beneficiaries will hardly increase, but the little ones will do so accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! I come from a family that has led a worker guest house, which has also greatly affected me politically. I never forget what my father told me when I was a child. He always meant: Remember a good one: If the workers are fine, we are good too! And this old wisdom, ladies and gentlemen, I will always be warm. I think we should all know that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It not only lives well for the worker, but with him also the merchant, the host, the craftsman and so on. People do not speculate with shares, as I said, but they revive the economy. And that is indispensable for us, I believe! I consider myself to be a meaningful and social redistribution, which is not designed from bottom to top, and not a saving and stress package, as we are now experiencing. Ladies and gentlemen! A few more suggestions: The old government is constantly being quoted and, in this context, as we have heard from my previous speaker, the former ministers of social democracy. I don't understand: There are 13 budgets, as my previous speaker has said, and there are hundreds of government proposals, all of which have been adopted unanimously. Some people do not know that a Council of Ministers has to be decided unanimously. And now, at once, everyone suffers from memory wounds. That can't be true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All the funds that have been invested in agriculture, the economy, the transport sector have also benefited your ministries. Don't worry about that again and again. But you took the money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me now turn to a speech by Mr Gaugg today at an early stage, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. He still hasn't understood his new role. He makes himself here and makes opposition policy. That, I think, would have to leave us, he would finally have to insist that he now has to interpret all that he has to represent. He cannot simply assume a desired role that he no longer has. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But there's something else: He repeatedly deals with the most enthusiastic of the SPÖ's party finances. In this context, he undisputed old hats. We have not asked him to do so, nor has he been able to do so. Nevertheless, I would like to keep to him the following: He will eventually have to take note that we are in a very different situation. We depend on the membership contributions of our members. We are not sponsored from different horns and receive no donations from them. That's not possible with us. [[Abg. Dolinschek: "Consumer"! Union!]] Neither the high-funding nor any channels will sponsor us. We have only the honest money available to our members, and that is why we have also acted accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! If he is already acting as the great Zampano in terms of party financing, I would like to offer him a top address, and this top address is called Lower Austria, ladies and gentlemen! He should go there and see how free party funding has gone. But if he wants to visit and contact him who is responsible, he needs a visitation permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6937	As the next speaker, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Drink. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6958	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone knows today, nothing goes without a healthy economy. Healthy, competitive businesses not only ensure jobs, but are also the basis of our social system. And finally, a successful operation is also a good taxpayer. I agree with Mr Kiermaier, whom I very much appreciate, but one thing I would like to say to you: Redistribution always requires value creation. I know a lot of workers who tell me: If the boss's okay, I'm fine. I would therefore like to maintain the following for both of them: There's only one thing going on in the economy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] The situation of the Austrian economy is good, the Federal Minister has said it. After all, we expect an economic growth of 3.1 percent this year, after all, we have the best employment figures for ten years. For the first time, not only the numbers of unemployed among young people but also older workers are falling. The economy is all right. But where we have problems, this is the budgetary situation, and we know that. 30 years of SPÖ Finance Ministers have truly left us the red lantern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: It's unworthy for you to say something like this!]] One thing is clear: Where the SPÖ is responsible for the budget, there is an evil awakening, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: A unanimous decision in the Council of Ministers!]] This applies to the Federal budget, in which we now have to strive to bring about an orientation, consolidation. In fact, Mr Edlinger should have picked up the ear figs given by the ECOFIN Council Minister Grasser. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You'll get them for this budget!]] This also applies to the national budgets under SPÖ responsibility. In Styria, for example, finance councillor Ressel continues to refuse to accept the cards, just as Weiland Minister of Finance Edlinger refused to put the cards on the table. And I fear there will also be an evil awakening there. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is a SPÖ disease!]] It is high time that even in the Styria as well as in the Federation a change occurs by perceived responsibility and thus the worst can be prevented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing to be said to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: If you cannot handle your own money, you should not entrust it to foreign money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: How true!]] What the economy needs is a solid framework, and this federal government has taken action to ensure these conditions. We will take the shackles of the labour market by providing social justice at the workplace. We will enforce the "Action Fairness" that you have promised for years and could not implement. [[Abg. May. Maier: The ÖVP has prevented this!]] We will introduce a practical holiday right because no one understands today's situation, Mr Maier. No employee understands why he should have the whole vacation for two days of work and why someone who does the system well needs more vacation than someone who works for years with an employer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] We will ensure social fairness. We will present this House with a right of settlement, which will allow for a choice between treatment and pension provision. This is social fairness, as we understand it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will also detach the labour market service by trying to increase hit accuracy. We will look at the differences in the reliability of mediation between the federal states, and we will help to eliminate these differences. Finally, we want to see the labour inspectorates as a partner of the economy and not as revenge, punishing angels, but as a helping angel. That is why we welcome the fact that these agendas will be united in a ministry. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] We want to push back excessive bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! That is why I continue to advocate that we have the courage to think about the "Action Fairness" and, in fact, to create a uniform right of payment for workers and employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] Mrs Bauer! They know exactly that no one understands why the employee should have a different right of payment than the worker. That still doesn't understand anyone, and second, nobody can expect it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let us be so courageous and take this necessary step of debureaucratisation! Nor should we view easier access to independence as a lip confession and demand a Tibetan prayer mill at every speech time and again. It is not only about the professional law of the self-employed or the freelancer, it is also about the implementation. It is also about speeding up the procedures. It is about the point that contact points see the entrepreneur, the founder as customers and not as a bitter. I also deliberately think of the company's book courts, which I politely ask to contribute, by shortening the processing duration, to the fact that founders are given the feeling that they are welcome in Austria. With the privatisation or partial privatisation of the ÖIAG shares, we have taken an important step. I know that you have your problems with this, but I also know that as a member of a region that for years has depended on a state-owned company, which has become a more powerful, internationally recognized company through privatisation, as the population has noted with ease. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: That's what we're talking about workers!]] Today we are proud of this former state-owned operation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can be proud of economic policy if it is made by EIA leaders. I would like to make a conscious mention of the steiric example at the end of my remarks. The Auto-Cluster is already a legend today, but like other projects, it is responsible for the fact that Styria is currently the economic locomotive in Austria. Frank Stronach is not investing in Styria, in the Weiz-Gleisdorf area, but also in Lannach, because he wants to do something good to this region, but because he can expect to have the greatest success in his investments there. A good economic policy is bearing fruit. I am very proud if the investment projects of this important company also provide Styria as their main investment area in 2000 and 2001. Ladies and gentlemen! I mentioned Lannach, Lannach is not the most insignificant of all Styrian economic sites. Finally, our Federal Minister Martin Bartenstein is a successful entrepreneur there. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Beings!]] – Beings, he says, but he has a very skilled woman who does just as well. In the first 100 days of his term as Minister of Economic Affairs he has shown that the economy is in good hands with him. The economy as it understands it is employers and employees as a community who want to do something. We will prove to you, ladies and gentlemen, that economic policy, as it is set up by this Federal Government, will also be successful for this Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7166	Mr Jung spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please note the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7190	Mr Kiermaier referred to the party financing of the SPÖ earlier: We are only sponsored by the honest funds of our members and not by the high finance and by various horns. – This is incorrect! Rather, it is true that the SPÖ is cutting off a lion share from party financing. In addition, four weeks ago I was at an event at the SPÖ Party Academy. As a financier and sponsor, the municipality of Vienna and the "standard" were explicitly mentioned. I am – at least officially – not aware that the municipality of Vienna is owned by SPÖ. The "standard" is pink, but not a party leaf. So it's not true what he said.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7220	Mr Magistrate has the power to make a further actual correction. Mayer to speak. Please note § 58 GOG!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7245	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Drinkl, said that the SPÖ had not achieved the "Action Fairness". Rather, it is true that the implementation of the "Action Fairness" agreed in the then government programme was prevented exclusively by the Austrian People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7280	Mr Riepl, the next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7302	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mr Kukacka, in his speech to my party's Mottenkasse policy, has accused me of putting it that way. Deputies! I think that's a little bit limited to refusal of reality. Who's in third place in the electorate? Who has fallen to this third place with his policy and with his political content, Mr Deputies? – I think it’s the People’s Party, which is clearly cut off. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's why we changed the course!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Who has lost most?]] Deputies! Who is the strongest party in this country? – The Social Democratic Party, that is, my party! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Not long!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Who has lost most?]] Mr Drinkl said that there are many workers who say: If my boss's fine, I'm fine. I don't disagree with you there. There are certainly a number of economic operators who know that they need satisfied and motivated workers and therefore share them in the economic upturn. But I can tell you, honourable Member, I know a lot of workers who say: My boss is getting better, and I'm getting worse. And the policy of this federal government promotes this climate and this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget requires victims and at the same time forgives gifts, it has been pointed out several times. The victims are required by the little ones, and the gifts are packed for the big ones. This blue-black budget is not social and fair, and we therefore reject this budget by social democrats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the chapter Economy a few comments: The tolerance of organized forms of illegal employment means, in fact, also accepting exploitation, profit and distortion of competition. The estimated extent of the reduction of taxes due to illegal employment and, above all, organized illegal employment goes to billions. This is silenced by this government. Ladies and gentlemen! Measures against Black Entrepreneurs are lacking in the budget and in the government's previous announcements, although there is a written package of laws against this massive form of abuse of people and the disregard of tax payments. A recent case that happened yesterday in Vienna-Penzing shows the need for action. A construction site was checked in perfect cooperation with the Foreign Police and the Labour Inspectorate. 21 workers were found to be illegal in the country, i.e. without employment permits, without social protection, without wages. They were exploited in the truest sense of the word. The interesting thing about this case is how well organized this black business industry is, because exactly three months ago the same workers who were found there were already picked up on another construction site and the corresponding company was involved in criminal proceedings. So you see, there's nothing to appeal for, there's no clear laws that stop this abuse. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These regulations were already missing in the past. We Socialists have always been committed to intensifications, unfortunately it has not been added. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister is watching illegal employment. He's not acting. Mr President, Mr Maderthaner does not shout because there is a distortion of competition because there is unfair competition and distortion of competition. Why don't you, Minister Bartenstein, get the money for the budget that you actually have from the taxes and taxes that you are not paying? – An answer to this would certainly be interesting for the High House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The reduction of the shadow economy through more stringent controls and higher penalties could thus bring billions of the budget to previously retained taxes and social security contributions, but I have already said nothing is happening. But it is not everywhere that you are inactionless, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! The budget is missing, and the government is distributing gifts – I have already said that – for example, within the framework of a planned tax amnesty. Tax evasioners are to be penalised or penalised. They will be rewarded. I ask you, Minister of State: What is this policy in our country? Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said several times in the debate on the "Action Fairness". One word on my part: I am a founding member of the Fairness Action. In my office in the metal industry in 1995 the "Action Fairness" was so named and then started. Over 300,000 people have supported this action. But what you want to do now is not the "Action Fairness" we've started. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: We are doing better!]] They are now planning to grant part of the workers a longer payment, but to miss all workers and employees a worse holiday right. This is not fair, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A fairer holiday right! All uniform!]] Mr Federal Minister and honourable ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I therefore deny you the right to link your project to the fairness action of the union. What you're trying to do now has nothing to do with what we want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Double vacation! Double vacation!]] This budget proves, ladies and gentlemen, that the FPÖ ÖVP model means elbow society. That's to prefer crushing, pushing, and big ones. Our model, the model of social democrats, is called the new elbow society, i.e. to hang in, to solidify, elbow to elbows, to leave no one behind, to take little ones seriously, to support, to live social solidarity. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Double vacation!]] This is our programme, the Social Democrats' programme!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7497	Mr Staffaneller spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7518	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! In my speech, allow me to quote a few comments from the Socialist and Green Members of this House. Mr Nürnberger – unfortunately he is not here today – from the SPÖ said the following: That we have such a good employment situation we owe to the former Minister of Social Affairs Lore Hostasch. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's what Minister Bartenstein said!]] – He said that, I said. I'll come back to that. His colleague Hagenhofer asked the question: [[Call the SPÖ:Collegin! Madame!]] If the AMS comes to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, how can it be seen where the workers belong? Mr Hagenhofer from the SPÖ! [[Call the SPÖ:Woman!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Au weh!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: She's still a woman!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Unfortunately, it's still a backbench!]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: She will introduce herself to you!]] Have you still not understood that the workers in Austria are also free people and that a lot of ignorance and prepotence are already in place to place such property rights on the people? Think about it that this government has, in a very short time, launched equality between workers and employees! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Have you forgotten? – They have failed for decades. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Your speech does not fit! Try to talk free!]] I also had the impression that Minister of Social Affairs Lore Hostasch was very hard to deal with – I come back to – the problems involved. But she's had a bad time. It has therefore had a wrong because elections have always been held between them, and in these elections it has been given by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany as to what training measures to take. It was these training measures that mainly served to clean up statistics so that the number of unemployed could be reduced and you could sell it better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The AMS has each received the corresponding order. There was no reference to qualifications with professional practice at all. The integration of these training participants into the labour market has also not been forced. The most important were numbers behind which to hide jobseekers. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Look here! That's how it was!]] - That's how it was! There has been no more money for special problem groups and their labour market policy support – see apprenticeship actions. That is why I have to give Mrs. Moser more of the green right if she thinks that long-term qualification programmes have been missing and only a third of the programmes have benefited women. Now the thing has changed fundamentally, now it looks like this: This government has a programme that makes it clear that it is intended to help women, the elderly and the disabled in particular. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I can give you some up-to-date figures. On behalf of the Federal Government, about 30 600 unemployed are in training measures at the end of April. There are no longer a third of these women, but 16 132 women face 14 499 men. That's about 1,633 women more than men. So it can no longer be said that men are preferred. This is a merit of the current government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ms Petrovic met on 10. In May, women and young people were over-proportionally affected by the budget. Yes, it is true, Mrs Petrovic – unfortunately she is not here – that women and young people are disproportionately affected. This budget takes particular account of the problems facing young people and women, as well as of the government programme. I've given you the figures. The current figures show that among young people, 21 percent compared to the previous year – that is, 7 100 young people between 15 and 25 years of age. Year of life – less than one year of work and that around 5,400 older people, over 50 years of age, are also less favoured. As far as women are concerned, I would like to stress: By 20,600 women – which is 18.6 percent less than in the previous year – are less unemployed. Please note! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said that the Social Democratic Minister was not successful in all areas. You shouldn't miss the gloria. The unemployment of the elderly and the disabled has developed upward over the last ten years. There was an increase of 20 100 to 50 600 in the elderly. The disabled were 18 400 disabled in 1989 and 40 000 in 1998. So that's an increase of far more than 100 percent each. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There Mrs. Haidlmayr was totally quiet!]] You just watched the government, you looked away. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Haidlmayr too!]] – Mrs. Haidlmayr also looked away, she certainly never mentioned anything about it here. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Only in recent months has this situation developed positively for those affected. This too is a merit of this young government, and you cannot deny it. Please refer to the government programme for further information. We do not wait until the next elections to get active, we have immediately taken action! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Zweytick.]] It has not been talked about today, but you have now "obstructed" - in good steirisch - that you have put yourself in the fat cap with the Integra project that you have so criticized. Such projects and similar ones, but not in this balance, have already existed. There has also been aid to cover the livelihood. Only the additional money, the fact that the persons concerned receive additional money – as it always says: citizens' money or other – was not provided in recent years because the aid has been paid to cover the living of the unemployment benefit. Please note, too, that this government is setting up a new line here by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, which is very positive for those concerned! Ladies and gentlemen! The economy has regained confidence in the government. The trend change has been achieved. Increased investment brings more jobs, and only by creating more jobs can further poverty be prevented in this country, only with this can it be countered. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The decline in unemployment and the increase in the labour-promoting budget have never made so much money available per capita to deal with the problems in order to overcome the problems! That too you will have to accept. Mr Vergestnich spoke of the 1,000 needlesticks to be missed by this government. – Mr President of the Council! We invite you to put 1,000 characters with us, 1,000 positive signs! Your members in the union will thank you! The poor in this country will thank you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] Mr President of the Council! At least be a Democrat in this giant! At least you, Mr President, do not hate those who want to help the weaker in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7751	The next speaker is Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7773	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been said repeatedly that this government does not actually save, but only burdens the weakest and the poorest. And it is repeated to note: This is the largest redistribution to the richest in the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Faith is one, reality is the other!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger:... ÖBB!]] [[Further lively calls at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: 1.6 billion Schilling debt! The highest budget deficit!]] I would like to put the question of the debt of recent years that we have caused together in the Federal Government – SPÖ and ÖVP together – to the right fate. Values were created for me as a Social Democratic. Austria is a flowering country. We have the slightest unemployment. And when representatives of the new Federal Government go out here and explain: The economic data, the labour market data, all this is the success of the new Federal Government!, then I can only say: Don't be ridiculous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All of this is the outflow of the politics of climate and Edlinger. The ÖVP itself always says that it had no part in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: But the mistakes already?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Debts must also be reduced. The question of what the SPÖ would do in the Federal Government has been repeatedly addressed. – Yes, as far as the government budget is concerned, we would have stopped a renovation, but not so that the lower-income third – I emphasize: the lower-third! – double loads, but the top third is almost half. That would not be our policy! We would have done this socially balanced, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: You would have raised the mineral oil tax!]] Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein! They are responsible for the economy and the labour market. You have declared today in your speech that there is equally much or more money for labour market policies. But you also have to say here that you have given the order that 3.1 billion schilling should be taken from the AMS for pension insurance. This means that 3.1 billion schilling is less available for labour market policy. Especially as regards youth employment – and this is a great concern for me – you have not taken any precautions at all. Statistics show that 3 000 to 5 000 school leavers do not have a training place. This is a scandal for this government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They often address us and ask: What would social democracy do? [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Nothing at all!]] – We too are in favour of a gradual reduction in additional wage costs. We have already mentioned this. We have created good conditions for the economy, so there is also this good development. But we would not, for example, now reduce the additional wage costs! This is not only said by the SPÖ, the trade union movement and the Chamber of Labour, but also by Mr. Sausgruber, who has been negotiating the Federal budgets. He says that he cannot at all understand that benefits such as child benefits increases and the reduction of additional wage costs are now being negotiated and disbursed. This could easily be done later, because the tax conditions for the economy are good. So you do not have to complain at all, ladies and gentlemen of the economy. Federal Minister! As far as the construction projects are concerned, I would like to make a very clear point as a district member of Vienna-Donaustadt. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Greeting God, my colleague!]] You have already moved so much, Mr Graf, that I believe that now, as a government representative, you will develop more activity! You know very well that in a district like Vienna-Donaustadt, which is flourishing, many young people need training places. The old government has still completed the project of a school building in Vienna 22, Heustadelgasse. But here, the competent minister is not able to sign today, the project will be delayed and we will have around 200 training places less next year. That's very unfortunate! Ladies and gentlemen! Because many times the ÖBB, the railways, have been addressed, I would like to say something right. – Mr Kukacka is not here now; that is also very unfortunate. He has constantly put himself in the foreground, has said he is the responsible ÖVP man, he wants to negotiate the ÖBB law. He's supposed to have an uncle who was a railway driver. At any rate, he said he understood something about it, and he negotiated the ÖBB law with colleagues Hums. Since then, there have been no officials at the Austrian Federal Railways, but there are only more ASVG staff. And as for the average age of entry of the ÖBB-pension recipients, that is not the 53rd, but the 55th. Year of life. And it could be much higher, Mr Federal Minister, and you know this quite well, if not the pressure of the owner on the board of directors to carry out really tough rationalizations, by which tens of thousands of colleagues at the railway have lost their job – that is unfortunate, but this reform was certainly necessary – would have been so huge. As a result, Chairman Draxler, for the ÖBB, has made use of sending those colleagues who have been out of office to retirement, which the railways often did not want at all. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Then you can have nothing against it if the retirement age is increased!]] In summary, as far as railway service law is concerned, I would like to say: I hope the government is true to the contract. Dear colleague Farmers' representatives! Dear colleague Schwarzenberger! If we are already talking about federal subsidies, we will talk openly about what farmers and traders get for their pensions on subsidies! Don't always attack other professional groups! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We pay 41 billion schilling for the railways!]] Don't always attack others! Agriculture gets a lot more! I am partly familiar with the small and medium-sized farms, but not with what the organized large-scale farmers receive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: This budget 2000 is a package of injustices. This is the turning point that has been started in politics. [[Members Dr. Puttinger and Haigermoser:Class fight!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (the volume "Bundesvorlag 2000" in the height) 41 billion for the railways! You can read it here!]] Federal Minister Bartenstein! They were a coffee house architect. Let's remember: For this blue/black government, you have met with the FPÖ leader constantly in coffee houses, and Mr Schüssel has conducted sham negotiations with the SPÖ. – This is your "honest" policy, but we will put you. The election day is payday for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8035	A real correction is now made by Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8059	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My previous speaker – I don't know from what point of view – spoke of an "organized large-scale farmerry". The following should have been avoided: There is a legal membership in the representation of interests, as well as with you, and a voluntary membership of the political interest groups. That's right!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8090	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8111	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, like many other speakers from the social-democratic and green sectors, has mentioned that – it has been emphasized: the economy now – has to expect 15 billion schilling or even more of additional wage reductions. On the basis of this information, I have looked at the budget as a whole and, above all, at the chapter on the economy and work to find out where these 15 billion shillings stand. In fact, I have found 14.3 billion schillings, but 14.3 billion schillings of loads that come from FLAF: 8.2 billion schilling, from the insolvency fund: 2 billion schilling, the AMS: 3.1 billion schilling, and accident insurance: 1.0 billion schilling: a total of 14.3 billion schilling. All of this pays mainly to the business community, and not to the servants, namely to Heller and Pfennig, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: On Heller and Pfennig!]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and contradiction at the SPÖ.]] What's interesting is: There is no reduction in the budget. It is only during the government period that entrepreneurship contributions, i.e. contributions paid by entrepreneurs themselves, will be reduced accordingly. I'll explain to you why this is necessary. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Huber, Mr Reitsamer, Dr. Pittermann and Mr Sophie Bauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know why you're yelling like that now. At the moment when it is objectively stated that the entrepreneurs do not raise 15 billion schillings, you are going to get rid of the argument that the entire budget would not be balanced. At the same time, it is clear that your tactics are very forward-looking. It is relatively quickly transparent. They have already spoken about social reduction at a time when the government had not yet presented its programme. You've seen that on the transparency everywhere. That is why it is not really a question of really putting the concerns of the population or of the workers in the foreground, but of simple party tactics, which you always express. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Reitsamer and Mr Sophie Bauer]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But your remarks not only allow conclusions on your attitude, but also on your basic willingness to deal with entrepreneurship. Your attitude is very one-sided. You see in this area loud capitalists – this word has fallen six times in the debate this morning – you see only companies that make profits. Ladies and gentlemen! I say to you: There are companies that make profits. But you should also know that 60 percent of all entrepreneurs, as far as social security is concerned, only reach the minimum contribution base, and that means that they cannot do as well as you believe. The second point is that there are around 80 000 companies that do not write profits, so it is necessary to do something similar for these companies – the profits taxes are fine – especially for those companies that are taxed. In this context, Mr Riepl mentioned the issue of blackmail. Blackwork should be combated accordingly. – Do you know what the reduction of additional wage costs would mean? – That it would no longer be so attractive to practice undeclared work, especially in the private sector, because the conditions of competition would be similar. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I'm quoting something from a study. You like Wifo reports so much. In this context, you should read the Wifo study, which shows why it is necessary to reduce additional wage costs. This is why we need it because it can support the small sector in particular, and because, as one assumes, the additional wage reductions are passed on accordingly in order to support market security measures accordingly, and this will create 15 000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the right economic policy, and not the ones you mean! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One word in this context – Mr Mag. Maier is not here right now – to the Chamber of Workers. I must say, it's already amazing what statistics you've provided today. Although I do not necessarily expect a party to be objective, especially not from your party, but from the Chamber of Workers. These representations have all the following characteristics: No timeline, no timing, but just something specified at some point. Secondly, Inaccurate. It is, for example, in the last "profile" of the Chamber of Workers: It abolishes the advertising levy of 1.7 billion Schilling total revenue – half is true – and, of course, the tax reform is not included in the accounting. So you've actually reached the point where you have to say: If the Chamber of Labour is not objective, it must not wonder why its role is constantly being questioned! Here you contribute to the fact that this will continue to happen in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, back to the basic problem. It is quite clear: We have a state expenditure ratio of 52 percent in Austria, which means so much that the company Austria is unproductive. This is also easy to explain: Depending on economic growth, we have revenue increases of around 3 per cent, while expenditure increases by 4.2 per cent. So there's the sheer going apart. Unfortunately, he is not here now, but one has to be accused of Mr Ex-Finanzminister – not the common budgets and what else; that is pure rhetoric –: He didn't do two things. First of all, he did not point out that the alleged savings package of 1996 was none. It was a package of revenue, and it did not reveal the structural weaknesses! But if the Minister of Finance always says that everything is fine, there are points and so on, then there is no willingness at all in the population at all, there is no compulsiveness in the form of saying that we have to clean up, but then everyone says we have to do something else. The second was – he is not here again, Mr. Finanzminister –: It has also failed to implement the development in budgetary terms. [[Abg. Kiss: Edellinger!]] – The old Minister of Finance, who is out of service. Edellinger is meant. Now I'm gonna tell you something: All other countries have, in budgetary terms, changed the overall trend towards global budgets and outsourcing. Let me give you an example: With us, there are a total of 1,200 approaches in the budget, but 45 percent of all approaches represent only 0.1 percent of the total budget size! I've got an example. These are the firearms. [[The speaker keeps a graphic up to date.]] The fire department shall make up 80 positions in the budget. The amounts are set in the form, there is also now the same thing in the previous year, which was lost two years ago. This is a serious point: The Minister of Finance Edlinger could have achieved savings of about 10 to 15 percent with another budget technology! He did not do that either, and the current government is suffering, because the current budget has not made major changes. But that would actually be the right way: with a modern technology in the household area really without getting over the rounds without larger cuts. Ladies and gentlemen! But what does that mean in the final effect if you say that the services of the firearms could provide someone else with a private company? – In the final effect, this means: Less state and more private, and that is, as I believe, the right path that this government has taken.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8232	The next speaker is Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8253	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! When the Federal Minister made himself here today and presented the labour market data and the economic data with a flattered breast, he appeared to me – with permission, Mr. Schwarzenberger – like a farmer, like a farmer who sits on the tractor with a well-filled trailer from his neighbor and fills the harvest of the neighbor in his barn. That's how I felt. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] - Yes, really! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A bad example!]] I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: No one will be able to tell us that the economic success, the economic data, has been the result of the last 100 days. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: But the mistakes already?- Oh, my God!]] - I'm just saying: These last 100 days would have passed with or without FPÖ. The success data, Mr Puttinger, are the result of a 30-year government work on social democracy at all levels. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would almost have forgotten the ÖVP, but since so many ÖVP MEPs always forget that they were in the government, I don't even think it is a Fauxpas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would, however, like to come to a budget section, to an economic part, namely the construction sector, where it does not really look pink. Mr Drinkl said: We also have the cultural prognosis, apologies for the economy forecast of the Wifo – cultural forecasts, but this is making it in the near future – the Wifo's economic forecasts confirm a strong upturn in the year 2000 despite the ongoing budget problems. For the year 2001, your budgetary policy, particularly with regard to the construction industry, will have a very negative impact. Although we will consolidate the Austrian economy thanks to the accelerated export growth, a solid expansion and a very strong domestic demand, in 2001, expansion is expected to be weaker, above all because of the more demand-effective measures to consolidate the budget. This means that the labour market as a whole benefits from the favourable economy. However, in the construction industry – and this also confirms the Wifo – growth remains significantly behind. It suffers from a fall in demand in new housing. To a considerable extent, this is due to the budget cuts in building and civil engineering that you have to answer. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Look at you!]] These trends, in turn, have a negative impact on the employment situation in the construction industry. Although we still have a share of the total number of people in employment in Austria, which at 7.6 percent is just above the EU average, among the 200 000 unemployed men and women, we find almost 100 000 unemployed. In other words, there is a record unemployment in spite of continuing growth in the economy, and this trend will increase to 110 000 to 115 000 people next year. The total volume of construction in Austria of 140 billion schillings accounts for around 35 percent or 45 billion schillings, and of which 17 billion shillings on the government itself. 28 million schillings come to the countries and communities, and even these funds are blocked by the lack of financial compensation in this year. From these considerations one comes a summary for you, the two economic parties: A responsible economic policy should not neglect the factor of the construction industry, which is important for the entire economic development in Austria. Investment in the construction industry achieves the highest multiplier effect in the overall economic comparison. With the implementation, for example, of a construction order of 1 billion Schilling, an additional production of a total of 1.5 billion Schilling in the Austrian economy will be achieved. A recession in construction thus results in a 150-percent decrease in contracts in the construction sector and in industry. It is clear from these contexts that savings in construction and infrastructure must be the wrong way in budget policy. Investment in public buildings and investments in transport infrastructure ensure competitiveness and thus also ensure future jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Intervention in housing funds, as planned by you, the government parties, will in turn lead to job losses in the construction industry. Therefore, the purpose of the housing aid must be left untouched, and re-transmissions of housing funds should be carried out exclusively in the direction of the old town conservation, the thermal renovation and the expansion of the infrastructure. A few words about the working people, and this is very important: Her self-proclaimed new government is obviously exhausted in cuts in the right to travel, deterioration in the handling, deterioration in pensions, deterioration in collective contract law, the reduction of worker protection provisions and self-retaining in health insurance. And even in the field of driver loads, the construction workers, who are almost always day- or weekly commuters, are the main sufferers of your budget considerations. That is to say, new pressures for more and more socially weak. That's the only idea in your budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why you are, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, called on them to help or take the opportunity to secure Austria's economic location on the one hand and to use the employment potential in the construction industry on the other, in order to make Austria more viable and beautiful at the same time and, above all, to provide the working people with hope for the future in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8366	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8387	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before Mr Faul can answer the question of whether he has written the speech himself, I would also like to address his speech. – Mr Faul, you have meant that the government is going to have a harvest, so to speak, where the neighbor has sown and which should therefore belong to him or for whom he is responsible. You may be right, but it is a rotten harvest that this government is going to have to get rid of now, with crazy costs, because no one can benefit from this harvest that your government has left behind! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You've already heard x times what this harvest, this debt mountain actually means. I would like to refer to the statements made by a second speaker, namely Mrs Haidlmayr's speech. Unfortunately, she has now passed out of the hall. She threw the dirt pot over us and then she went out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] In any case, Mr Oellinger, she is not here. But You can listen to it. It has attacked me – I do not know, Mr Ollinger, whether you were in the hall at that time – in a really evil way. She has accused me of having been in the government ever since – please listen to me! – to stop opening mouths for the disabled. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] And I wanted to tell Mrs. Haidlmayr the following, but now I'm telling you all: I certainly do not belong to those Members who turn after the wind! I also do not belong to those Members who in the opposition defy everything and demand everything possible, but then, if they are in the government, say that it is all first-class. That is why I have no understanding at all for those politicians who have been in the government for years and decades, who have felt everything first-class and great and are now going here and spoiling everything they once praised. That is really without character! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The Greens and Mrs Haidlmayr are attached to this policy, this objectionable policy. Mr Riepl, for example, is acting here and explains perfectly that the government is not doing anything against the black workers. – Yes, please, you have never touched any fingers to do anything against the enormously high level of black labor in Austria! And now you demand that this government, which is only in office for 100 days, from one day to the other, resolve all the problems you have left behind. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Of course! We have submitted applications!]] In this connection, I should like to say the following: We wanted to introduce an ID card for all workers on construction so that we can control what is happening to black workers, but you have opposed it! I can't tell you anything, Mr Dietachmayr. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I was long enough in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I know exactly how that was then. I've been a parliamentarian for so long that you can't come to me with your excuses! I know exactly how your government policy took place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Haidlmayr is back. You've heard what I said before. But I'll tell you something: Even if we are in the government, I am committed to the disabled! They asked: When did you last open your mouth to the disabled? Mrs Haidlmayr! You're not where I am, and I'm not anywhere where you are. For example, I missed you at the General Assembly of the ARGE Rehabilitation. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: I referred to this house, I spoke of Parliament!]] If you had been there, you would have heard Mrs. Sickl speak really vehemently for the disabled. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Why are you laughing? Has She didn't hear, did it happen to you that the Federal Minister has appointed a disability officer in her ministry? With you, everything that may be lost will be lost. Her cliché could be patched. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Socialist Party... – For years the Social Democratic Party simply did not respond to the demand for a disability officer in the ministry. [[Abg. Schwamlein: Social Democratic Party!]] Ms Sickl has also stated that there will be more money for the disabled, and this has also been confirmed by Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: No skills!]] That is why I do not think it justified that you simply say that the government is not doing anything for the disabled. Mrs Haidlmayr! You have asked me a lot of questions because you think I would do nothing for the disabled since we were in the government. I also allow myself to address some questions to you: Where were you when Minister of Finance Edlinger burdened the disabled with a package of 4 billion schilling? That's not where you occupied the speaker's desk. Yes, you have been sitting in Parliament, in the last row, but you have not occupied the stage here, you have only begun to occupy it since the liberals have joined the government. Where were you when the number of unemployed disabled people increased when the pocket money was reduced to 500 s? [[Abg. Haidlmayr: I submitted the request and you rejected it!]] You didn't do anything at all, but you just blocked the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You know, Mrs. Haidlmayr, my political credo is and has always been that in disability policy all parties should work together. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They are the ones who constantly destroy it. You, Mrs. Haidlmayr, and your entire green group are just about bringing your accusations – racism, right-wing extremism – over. You also abuse the disabled, and I think that is really sad. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Have you not made comments from this pult about African comments?]] My main contribution should deal with older workers, namely those over 55. Unfortunately, I am no longer in favour of it now because Mrs Haidlmayr, with her really incomparable "slaughters of mud", has prevented this from happening. The Minister is no longer here, but I would nevertheless like to say this in favour of the Minutes: I believe that this federal government must be increasingly committed to the fact that older workers over 55 are not on the line on the labour market. I recently found myself frightened when I became an initiative for a 55-year-old, that, for example, private staff placements are not even willing to accept an offer to take a CV of over 55-year-olds. They say he just can't be mediated anymore. I spoke to five staff placements, and four of them said there was no chance. I believe that there is a need to do something to enable the private intermediaries to become an initiative in particular in order to reach individual talks that older workers are also accommodated. That's why I'd ask you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8572	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8597	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! That's it, Mrs. Partik-Pablé: They have said that private employment intermediaries do not care at all about workers. But now you go here and privatize the labour market service totally! I'm going to focus on what's going on. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You know what's going to come out? Remarkably!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: coffee student!]] Mr Drinkl has spoken of a confidence in the labour market service as it is now planned. The Federal Government foresees a reduction in the funds for labour market services in the budget 2000 by the withdrawal of the federal grant amounting to 2.8 billion schilling. In addition, 0.7 million schillings per year are to be saved at the AMS by the redundancies of officials' salaries. It also provides for a total privatisation of work placements, and this means that the unemployed can be recruited no matter where and no matter what conditions, whether reasonable or not. The AMS will become a publicly funded employment platform and infrastructure for profit-oriented enterprises. This would create the conditions for further destabilisation of the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! The combination of labour market redundancies and placement, of course, creates incentives to circumvent the mandatory rights of temporary workers. The remuneration claim is determined by local schemes. The financial scope of the labour market service will, of course, increase the pressure on job-seekers. Labour market promotion measures, such as non-profit employment projects, labour market advisory bodies, women's advisory services and socially committed projects, become a non-financial luxury of labour market services. It is also impossible to finance the strengthening of the preventive labour market promotions or measures related to EU enlargement, which are required by workers' interests. What is even worse for me, however, is the performance-oriented remuneration of the AMS, the AMS employees, with only the placement at a workplace, but not the advisory and promotion services. Due to the performance fee only for intermediaries, a control takes place away from the advice and promotion towards rapid and mere mediation. As a result of this budget reduction, only more well-trained, healthy workers will have an opportunity in the labour market without care obligations. People with disabilities, care obligations, older workers have no chance. Although success figures have been presented by the current Federal Government in the field of women's employment in recent years, structural measures have already been started and implemented in this area by the Social Democratic Federal Government. The current Federal Government has not yet shown any intention of implementing support measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the AMS is planned in a Ges.m.b.H. To transform, this already legally prevents the design possibilities for a social action of the AMS. The influence of workers' representatives on the protection of the interests of workers is reduced and the situation at the workplace is thus deteriorated for workers. The barriers between private employment placement and job placement will continue to be opened. The consequences of reducing the budget for active labour market policies of the AMS are unacceptable to us Social Democrats. That is why we will not give this concept our consent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say one more thing: The merit of the Old Federal Chancellor Klima and the former Minister of Finance Edlinger, the course, of the You are currently benefiting, will soon turn over when what you have planned to do in all areas of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8656	The next speaker is Mr Schweisgut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8678	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Among the many important areas that we have already discussed today in the budget chapter, the tourism sector is certainly a very special one. This is, of course, also a subject for my first speech, to which I would very much like to speak, and I would therefore like to deal with the tourism and leisure industry a little bit today. It is a pleasure that tourism in particular plays a major role in the new Austrian Federal Government, for the first time in history there is a new State Secretary for Tourism. I am particularly pleased that Mrs Rossmann has an excellent tourism expert in this office. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I wish you, Mrs State Secretary, and all of us, our tourism companies in the next few years a very successful job. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the immense importance of tourism in Austria is still underestimated by many fellow citizens, but also by many politicians. I would like to make a few figures in view of the importance of the tourism industry throughout the Austrian economy. Not for nothing, the value added of tourism is more than 13 percent of the total Austrian economy. It was almost 450 billion schilling that came out of tourism last year, which is an increase of over 4 percent. Austria takes first place in Europe with the per capita income from international tourism with almost 20 000 S per head. ==References====External links== The various leisure activities in the village and the private day trips in the country are also a huge contribution to the economy with over 250 billion schilling. These are very impressive figures, which have already been brought in part by my previous speakers. I would like to call on all responsible politicians in this country and here in the House not to support legal regulations, political decisions which are very difficult for the tourism and leisure industry, but also in particular for gastronomy, and which in the future will be somewhat impeded. I would like to mention three small examples, three examples which are very important to us. It has already been criticised by the opposition today that no one is commenting on the subject of drinking tax. I believe that the issue of drinking tax is also a subject for the government parties, which is very conscious and with a lot of sense of responsibility, since the economy does not, of course, want to harm the communities. The economy is behind the government and is behind the communities, which are also active in tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the other hand, I must also, of course, express the concerns of gastronomy, which, with the increase in the VAT on food to 14 percent in the next few years, will be subject to a huge burden. It would, of course, be very important for me – and I would also like to document this here – to use, if possible, the negotiations of these ten days or this week, and I call on everyone to consider whether there is a possibility of financing from other sectors of the economy, so that not only small and medium-sized restaurants are taxed. Perhaps in the next few weeks this imbalance can still be changed. I can also no longer hear the frequently quoted sentence, the increase numbers anyway the customer. Of course, the customer always pays any burden, but it also has an impact on the gastronomy when food becomes 4 percent more expensive and therefore consumption decreases. As a result, many, especially smaller, restaurants, would have been forced to break down. I hope that, in the sense of our Austrian gastronomy, a suspension of these measures will be possible in the next few days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A second very important point for me, which is also on the subject of "promoting the tourism industry", is that in recent years we have perhaps taken a little too little and too little intensive care of the subject of major events in Austria. In recent years, there have always been applications for events, but whether the Olympic Winter Games, whether they were football World Cups or international exhibitions, have always been empty. But precisely these major events are very important for our country, and I would be pleased if, after organisational mistakes or perhaps non-existent concepts in the past with the new government, with the new politicians perhaps now also in the sports resort with more momentum could also be addressed to the relevant organizations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Especially for our status as one of the world's most famous tourist countries, it would be very important if major events were to take place in Austria, since this would also have the appropriate advertising effects. However, I would also like to briefly address another area which may not belong to today's budget chapter, but which is also considered to be a supporter of the tourism industry, namely culture. It should not be underestimated how important the culture and artist factor is in our country. That is why I would just like to ask, as a Tyrolean Member, that our new Secretary of State, let us share culture a little more justly with the Austrian population as a whole. Especially as a Tyrolean MP, as a member of a Western federal state, it has always been a thorn in my mind that with a total share of the population of 8 percent, as is the case in Tyrol, the factor is about 4 percent for festivals in Tyrol, for theatre makers, small-scales, free groups, which would also be very important for the federal states outside, our share is 3 percent and for music ensembles and orchestras our share in Tyrol is 0.2 percent. As I said, with a population key of 8 percent, I see a great injustice, and I hope that after many years of socialist-dominated abuses, there may be a better cultural distribution in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important in many areas to take reform steps and initiatives, and I am focusing on our new State Secretariat in particular in the area of tourism. But I also thank you, of course, for setting up a new initiative for tourism in these particularly harsh economic times in Austrian tourism. Not for nothing, the party president Dr. Gusenbauer asked in Paris yesterday to set up an observer group with European members. I think this initiative is particularly good because such an observer tourism could perhaps replace our congress tourism a little. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, it would also be very positive if it were extended to the socialists after they had refined this sanction policy to bring the many Austrians from abroad to Austria. All the socialists of Austria would surely fill our beds in the gastronomy, and this initiative might be the next step from the Socialists to welcome. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the many problems in the tourism sector, I would like to conclude by mentioning the welcome tourism balance. I am particularly pleased, as a Tyrolean MP, that Tyrol was able to achieve an increase of at least 18 percent with a nocturnal share of 44 percent. With 226 percent more Belgian guests in Tyrol, this development was certainly gratifying. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These figures show that tourism can continue to make an important contribution to a healthy budget in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8808	The next speaker is Mr Grabner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8829	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Schweisgut said that the Social Democrats should contribute to tourism, I can tell him: If the ÖVP had not made the referendum in Vienna, then in a few weeks the World Exhibition in Vienna – and not in Hanover! – and would come a lot of guests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially the Social Democrats – and I hope that the new Federal Government will hold it – have always tried to bring all major sporting events to Austria. Especially German Chancellor Vranitzky, with our friends in Tyrol, has contributed to the World Cup in St. Anton next year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The new government combines the ongoing tasks of consolidating the federal budget, the public budget with a massive redistribution policy in favour of entrepreneurs, homeowners and agriculture. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Again!]] - Yes, again and again! – At the same time Workers as well as current and future pensioners are heavily burdened. At the same time, this means redistributing the budget resources of small incomes into high-income groups. This overall assessment is based on an accurate analysis of the future projects of the FPÖ/ÖVP government. For example, I would like to mention the amendment to the Labour Market Finance Act, which we have already heard from today, or the many youth problems that we will have in the future. The provision with which the labour market service has to be automatically transferred from the labour market policy delivery in 2000 by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, if a positive balance results, is decidedly rejected by us, because this provision makes use of active labour market policy, for example, for economic promotion or tourism advertising, instead of bringing surpluses in the way provided by the legislator of the labour market reserve at the AMS. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] The funds for labour market promotion are frozen by the Federal Government at the level of 1999 – 8.2 billion schilling. In order to achieve the NAP targets – reducing the unemployment rate to 3.5 percent, halving long-term unemployment, increasing active measures – about 9.3 billion schilling would be necessary as early as 2000. Therefore, the Social Democrats call for a significant increase in the financial resources in the Federal estimates 2000 and in the 2000 budget accompanying law for active labour market policy interventions. In this respect, given the likely danger of higher unemployment of older workers, the non-social impact of the pension reform must significantly increase active measures to combat unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This year too, a large number of young school leavers will be confronted with the problem that they do not have a teaching place available in a farm. Nevertheless, the new Federal Government, in the budget accompanying law, fails to provide sufficient resources for the continuation of the very successful action of the... – You have no idea of youth work at all, you only talk everywhere! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] The problems of the youth in Austria, which are so important to solve, are uninteresting to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This Federal Government fails to provide sufficient resources in the budget accompanying law for the continuation of the very successful measures of the Youth Training Security Act. Ladies and gentlemen! This takes responsibility from the Federal Government that thousands of young people are not given access to vocational training. These measures are by no means taken against a critical economic policy background, but are an extremely aggressive approach to the position of workers, as other projects show. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, dealing with the problem of youth unemployment, the problems of unemployed people is such an important point that we will always show it here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8904	The next speaker is Mr Lexer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8925	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! Also in the Ministry of Labour and Economics, of course, the government's restructuring and consolidation course is noticeable. Nevertheless, 51 billion schillings are planned for economic promotion, and we can trust our Minister Bartenstein that he will use this economic support in such a sustainable way in the economy that we face a good development. I notice another number: For unemployment benefit and emergency aid, 26.7 billion schilling are planned. This amount must in any case be reduced. But don't worry: We do not think of reducing unemployment benefit or eradicating emergency aid. But it must be a constant concern of all of us to reduce this amount by ensuring that people do not at all get into the situation of getting unemployment or emergency aid. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The policy of this federal government, namely increasing the funds for active labour market policy from 10.5 billion schilling to 11.1 billion schilling, will have a positive effect in the future, with the right course. Although we are constantly able to talk about good economic data and lower unemployment figures, I would like to refer to our Federal Republic of Carinthia and find that we in Carinthia are still final economic policy and that in Carinthia the situation is serious, especially in the construction industry. [[Abg. Edlinger: With the head of state no wonder!]] – This is now the simple way of looking for a culprit. Let me talk to you. I don't think there's any point in being a culprit. One should be allowed to mention things by name, without mentioning someone like him and thus already having the guilty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to briefly give an Austrian overview of the construction industry. In Burgenland, construction production is falling by 2.3 percent; the prospects are not particularly rosy, it is expected to be a minus of 8.11 percent. In Carinthia, the construction production value with 9.1 percent minus is falling sharply. In the civil engineering sector, the collapse is about 11.6 percent, and in the construction sector about 7 percent. Order receipts are also 8.7 percent below the comparison value of the previous year. It's getting a little better in Lower Austria. There the minus is 3.5 percent, and the prospects are at least such that it will stagnate there. In Upper Austria there is only one plus, also in Salzburg, and in Styria, I have heard from the Vice-President Drinkl, there is a positive development in this regard. There one balances in the construction industry with a plus of 1.2 percent, and, see, in the future one expects a plus of 17.1 percent! We do not need to talk about Tyrol and Vienna. In these two federal states, the development of the construction industry is extremely positive and the forecasts for the future also look good. Low purchasing power, low incomes and high unemployment are signs of a bad economy, and this is also seen in Carinthia. Unfortunately, I have to mention it here too. Although the number of minor employees and part-time workers improve labour market data, they deceive over the real situation. That can't comfort us, because Carinthians don't use anything at all if positive figures are declared, but the actual living conditions and living conditions of the people do not agree with it. For Carinthia, therefore, the government course – to re-establish and consolidate – is necessary and correct, because there is no alternative, but also quite problematic, because the situation will worsen and the individual data will be even worse in the future. That is why we in Carinthia need not only a consolidation course and a rehabilitation course, but also an investment boost and a recovery programme to boost the economy and secure jobs. I do not wish to call on the opposition parties to do something or to refrain from doing so, but I would like to appeal to their own federal government to pay particular attention to Carinthia and to help us, because we will not make it on our own. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, it is not only about financial grants, but sometimes it is also possible with a regulation to bring something positive into the way. I am thinking, for example, of the regulation on the Wörthersee motorway seat, to be adopted by the Minister for Infrastructure. This project could be realized immediately without having to make public funds liquid. I am thinking, for example, of the transport infrastructure, but I am also thinking of the expansion of the University of Klagenfurt in order to improve the training opportunities of young people. However, we are not only calling for Carinthia, but we have also thought about how we can get more money ourselves, and we have decided to sell the housing promotion loans to Carinthia banks in part and to allow early repayments for private residential borrowers. Our aim is to ensure that some billions of the billions we want to use for debt reduction – we are moving along the same path as the Federal Government – and on the other hand, we want to invest 2 billion schillings in Carinthia in order to ensure impulses for the construction industry, to improve training and also to realize community and tourism projects. In addition, we have also changed the focus in the Housing Promotion Act, namely – Mr Faul has already said this – towards more renovation, which we prefer to the new building. In this context, I would also like to address the fight against the peppers. We should not always go the easy way, namely to carry out controls, ID cards, maps or anyone else knows what else is producing, but we can also offer positive incentives. We in Carinthia, for example, have the action: "100 000 S more for every house builder" – that is, when he calculates professional services – so that he doesn't have to commission a bufferer, but commissions the private medium-sized economy. As far as the sale of housing promotion loans is concerned, I must say that we do not need a schilling of the federal government, but we need to abolish the commitment of purpose at least for existing loans. I already see the need, of course, to co-negotiate the future loans for the financial compensation, but for existing loans, we should abolish the commitment of purpose. Unfortunately, I must note that something is also being slowed down by the government side, by the Minister for Finance. I think it is a pity that just a finance minister coming from Carinthia is delaying or at least hindering a good project that we have jointly negotiated in Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen! We need the necessary reorganisation and consolidation boost in Carinthia and at the federal level. All in all, we need orders for the Carinthian economy so that people have employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8983	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9004	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I will also address infrastructure measures such as road construction or road pricing in my comments on the chapters of economic and labour, construction and technology – knowing that this is the responsibility of another Federal Minister – as I believe these measures are also economic and employment-related and are therefore inseparably related to these issues. These 2000 budgets – summarized in a single block – show a minus of 400 million schilling for the basic budget compared to 1999, minus 1.2 billion for the German high-rise construction, minus 1 billion for federal road construction and minus 15 percent for discretion expenditure. At the same time, legal expenditure such as local transport financing is not sufficiently budgeted. In addition, out-of-budget debt is increased. In addition, a load package for the drivers and commuters comes: from 1. June 3 billion schilling more burden by increasing the insurance tax by more than 50 percent – next year there will be 5 billion – with January 2001 increasing the vignette price by more than 80 percent, which will cost drivers more than 2 billion schilling, while at the same time destroying 1,400 jobs with your measures. One-sided tax increase with the simultaneous deterioration of infrastructure – this, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be a useful concept! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How does yours look?]] – Excellent! The fact that entrepreneurship does not take account of it will probably not surprise anyone in this government. They burden the weak, the poor, and you serve your own clientele: the rich. It is not surprising, therefore, that the ÖVP ministers have successfully dragged away road pricing in recent years, and I would not be surprised if the now valid date 2002 had not been observed either. What that means is clear: It's missing 4 billion schilling. This will cause problems in rehabilitating the motorways, problems in flaws, problems in the construction of new transport routes, such as the urgently necessary ring around Vienna or the link to the Eastern states. Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists are clearly speaking against this wave of burden! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We demand that you finally stop falling down on the passenger drivers, that you set the cross-subsidisation in favor of the truck, that the truck road pricing is no longer delayed and that there is an increase in the toll vignette price for trucks below 12 tons until the introduction of the road pricing and an increase in the car tax for trucks over 12 tons. Your budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a burden package without a social balance, which we will undoubtedly not give our approval. Finally, because this is also closely related to it, let me make another comment on the weekend ban on heavy traffic. Based on the reports from Easter Travel and the last extended weekends, we know that the current regulation on road safety is not sufficient. Experts at the ARBÖ know that the unbundling of transport, the modes of transport will only take place on Saturday from 3 p.m. on. I would therefore like to make the request of the ARBÖ here and ask you to implement it, namely: First: From Saturday 8 o'clock, the ban on trucks will apply to over 7.5 tons and truck trailers over 3.5 tons. Secondly, No more transport of dangerous goods is permitted from Saturday zero. And thirdly, increased control of the entire transport of goods on public roads also on weekends. [[Abg. Wattaul: And how are the gas stations delivered for the cars?]] At the general ban, I can still note that it must not be watered down, even outside travel times. You can also have no understanding that freighters from Hungary, the Czech Republic or Slovakia, with convoys of several trucks below 7.5 tons, are failing the weekend ban. This is not in our all interest!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9061	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9083	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's very strange: The more intensive the discussion on the chapter "Work" becomes, the more the Minister of Labour shines through absence. Obviously, he was only really interested in the field of economics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – I only remind you of your excitement when a member of the government of us is only two minutes late. Minister Bartenstein is already missing the longest. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You always sent us the white man! That was the excitement! All the others would have been all right anyway!]] For budget recovery. – In the social field, I see no steps to reorganise. I only recognize shifts: Money is raised from the poor to the rich. 15 billion schillings we take the workers, 20 billion schillings go towards the economy. I see no budgetary effectiveness in this, except in the case of the additional scrapping operations which have already been referred to massively, and in the case of levies, whether it be the insolvency fund, unemployment insurance and so on. I would like to focus more intensively on an area, namely the Labour Law Change Act and the Fairness Action – among which it is better known, although what remains cannot be called "Action Fairness". The trade union has collected 300 000 signatures for a long-standing overall approximation of the unjustified differences in labour law between workers and employees. It remains a mogel pack, which at best deserves the name "Action Unfairness". In fact, only a partial, not complete improvement in the payment of compensation in the case of illness, is left without the halved claim for the exhaustion of the basic claim and without the full recovery of both claims half a year after the end of the first disease. The payment of compensation for other important personal prevention reasons is also simply a mistake. All the other approximations have been abandoned at all. But the self-appointed lawyers of the "little man", the "little woman" – I can't hear it anymore; it testifies to a certain attitude and also to superiority! – talk about finally implementing the fairness action. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] – To this caring nothing, ladies and gentlemen, Austrian workers could have been able to give up well and would have liked to give up, even to where they have to pay it dearly! If the Federal Chancellor yesterday spoke of a cost neutrality in this direction, I must say that I do not know where he sees it. If you compare the cost of holiday schooling with at least 4.3 billion schilling, and the cost of employers who make up about 1 billion schilling, do you really think you can talk about cost neutrality here? I wonder, How naive do you think the Austrian workers?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have looked at the opinions on the draft and I would like to draw up a few points here. For example, the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations gives an opinion, and I quote literally: "The planned social approximation of workers and employees remains behind the changes in the assessment draft to the labour relationship law of November 1998. For example, the approximation of termination schemes is lacking." Ladies and gentlemen! If a ministry running sluggish social decline finds something like that, then, I have to say, it's meaningful enough. You can also read: "The planned withdrawal of post-selection in the event of termination by the employee is seen as critical." - I don't think that needs a supplement. Finally admit that you make the workers pay hard for what you now want to sell as "action fairness"! They lean back and say: In 100 days we managed what the Social Democrats had not done for so long! [[Abg. Wattaul: That's right!]] That's quite clear, but as "great as you sell it, it's just for the economy, and for the economy it's even too little. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But better small steps than none at all!]] The "action unfairness" means 3 billion Schilling baskets for the economy, even if you do not like it, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: He likes it anyway!]] No, no, I do not even like the ÖVP – I would like to address it – because the opinion of the Economic Chamber is very revealing in this case. Here's what it says: "Better a deterioration for employees" – that is what the Chamber of Commerce wants – "for an improvement for the workers". – The Chamber of Commerce articulates fears that part-time workers could be favoured in the post-war period, because there are 8 hours of discussion here. – Oh God, oh God, is that terrible how the workers benefit again! That's terrible! The claim for reintroduction of the cease-to-date commitment to post-selection in 1993 is raised. And the Chamber of Commerce is very concerned about what happens when an immediate illness occurs after entering the service. It calls for a legal probation period with immediate resolution without the consequences of the § 5 Paid Payment Act. So everywhere you want to minimize the risks and just take off! The employer protects himself in every respect. Now he is again afraid that he might harm perhaps in the event of a temporary service relationship, which otherwise means relief and security for him. So we re-establish a barrier at the expense of the workers. These opinions cited other greys, but let us break the final sentence of the opinion on the tongue: "To meet the requirements of the Government Convention, which should lead to a tangible discharge of the service providers, further labour-law compensation measures would be essential." So, everything for the economy and nothing for the employee! – Quite clearly, especially since the area of work is now located in the economic resort. Mr Maderthaner praises this, I would say: No, no, no, no, This is a unilateral burden on workers in favour of corporate profits! The ÖGB should, in fact, be protected by copyright of the term "Action Fairness", because in connection with the labour law amendment law it is certainly not possible to use this expression in the mouth. Ladies and gentlemen! If you continue to do so and are always burdening workers, then the ship – as if I only shift the ballast to one side – will once know, and that will also feel the economy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9195	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9217	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In this budget debate, let me make a few comments on those people who are affected by the fate of long-term unemployment. Prior to the starting position: Under this budget, the budget for active labour market policies should be set at the level of 1999, and support for businesses related to long-term unemployed will be significantly reduced. The Government's long-term "integration" programme is insufficient and far too far-reaching. The reward is under the collective agreements! This service relationship, which is not really a service relationship, is also not sufficiently covered by social security law. The formulation of the location minister Bartenstein, the work for long-term unemployed, should also be as tailored as possible to their abilities, does not make me feel good. Since I see Mr Deputies coming to the plenary room in a stupid manner – yes, I know that – I would like to tell you, Mr Deputies: [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Only because of you did I come!]] I feel honored! Since you were once again in front of me on the list of speakers, you have been removed in order to listen to me. You'll probably return to your word. I thank you very much for the honour, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Because you're too important to me!]] But I can calm you down: Today I'm "unbelievable." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Toothless or incompetent?]] – "Zahmlos", but it's coming. Today I am really just talking about the problem of long-term unemployed. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Is this a threat?]] – No, that’s not a threat, today I am tame, dear honourable Member. Who, then, determines what should be "as far as possible" in this context? What is "as suitable" for a long-term sweater? Mr. Minister of Location – or perhaps you can jump in, Mrs. State Secretary! Give us a few practical examples. What is tailor-made in the program "Integra" for a long-term unemployed sweater? Instead, I suspect that you want to stop holes in those organizations that you have deprived civilians. So if that's behind it, please put the facts on the table! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we need an active labour market policy that includes all target groups: older workers, women, young people, disabled people. We need real labour and insurance jobs for long-term unemployed. We need further education and training to promote employment. Long-term unemployed are not unemployed voluntarily. The financial downturn is also due to social change. If you haven't experienced it yourself, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot imagine what a situation these people are in. The Integra government programme not only goes beyond the needs of the long-term unemployed, it also undermines Austrian labour law and thus existing collective agreements. The long-term unemployed have nothing to do with the programme. They are not prepared for reintegration into the regular labour market. Social security legislation, I said, is also insufficiently insured. – This is once again a parade example: Once again, this government is doing everything for the employers and nothing for the workers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The aim is to provide employers with as cheap a workforce as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Entrepreneurs create jobs!]] The labour market, the workers, the job seekers, the disadvantaged people in the labour market obviously do not do well that the minister responsible for them is at the same time responsible for the economy. But as I said here a few days ago, to the address of the two government parties: In the workers' chamber elections, the workers have made a clear position on your policy and strengthened the opposition parties. But it should also be in your interest to finally show – the valued minister Bartenstein is not there, but I address this to his address – that he does not only work for entrepreneurs. After 100 days of government work and a horrendous balance for the employees, you could put a sign that the "small" people don't care that you have a healthy labour market worth something and that you appreciate the labour force of every individual! I should like to help you and put in a motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President. With your consent, I may give up the reading of the explanatory statement. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Here you have the opportunity to do something for the affected group. I am very excited to see if Mr Deputies are going out stupidly now and joining this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9387	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9414	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the budget estimate, a massive reduction in mining funding of 26 million Schilling is planned. The massive cuts in mining production began in 1991 under Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel. 260 million schilling would have been necessary, but only 184 million schilling were granted. These cuts have continued to this day, and we have now reached the level of about 122 million schilling. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why has mining been promoted at all? – Since the 1970s, mining has been declining due to the pressure from overseas, and that is why there has been mining promotion in Austria since 1979. The aid will enable aid to be sought from new storage sites, aid to the costs of investment, aid for restructuring, environmental protection, landscape protection and security measures, and aid at the actual cost of the final termination of a mining activity. That is why I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that mining promotion is a subject promotion and not a regional promotion. There are, of course, also economic foundations for granting aid. The last large lignite mining is located in the West Styria. At present, 420 workers are still employed. This also includes the power plant with 120 employees, which heat the lignite. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have an existing law which regulates the reduction of lignite and the retirement of employees in this area by 2008. This is also necessary for the economic situation of the district. Ladies and gentlemen! Mining workers have the worst possible means of change, they work hardest and are very physically charged. Since I myself had the opportunity to go into the mountain and take a picture of the activity at a depth of 180 meters, for me the respect for every single miner, who deserves the livelihood for himself and his family in this way, has risen very high! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists cannot agree to this budget, as the first is that the recultivating of mining, as envisaged, will not be possible through the cuts in the budget and the workers would also be left on track. Mr Puttinger has spoken today at the beginning of his speech about the coinage. – I think it would be time for the ÖVP to finally get stronger and recognize the atrocities it has with the creation of this budget in all areas, and the redistribution of the weak to the strong!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9474	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9496	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! This blue-black federal government, after taking power, completely banished the term "social balance" from its vocabulary. Social balance can also be seen in the budget. Righteous redistribution is not required, and I say you are not at all interested in it. Its extremely unfair redistribution policy exposes your true intentions. They take the words "social security" into their mouths, talk at the same time about a million people at the poverty line, but in truth spread from bottom to top! This is unbelievable and easy to see. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the course of today's debate, I would like to deal with a group of people who generally find too little attention on the labour market. It is about people with special needs, it is about disabled people. The disability approach adopted in 1992 sees disability policy as an overall social task, which must be integrated into the general policies and measures. – Mainstreaming! This principle has now been reaffirmed by several international resolutions and is represented at European Union level. In addition to mainstreaming, special programmes for people with disabilities have been set up in Austria as a principle: for example, the Handicraft Regulation or the Reorganisation of Care for Care. Nevertheless, people with special needs are still disproportionately affected by unemployment in Austria, as has been noted several times today. For example, in the period 1993 to 1997 access for the above-mentioned disabled has increased from over 58 000 to over 84 000 people. And a large part of these people are long-term unemployed. In 1999, 77,800 people with special needs were unemployed; 28 000 more than six months and 11 300 more than 12 months. We will therefore present today a resolution on an active labour market policy programme for the reintegration of long-term unemployed people with special needs. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Why didn't you do that in 1997?]] As Mrs Partik-Pablé said: Disability policy should go beyond party boundaries! That is why I hope that you too will agree to this request today, Mr President. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Good hope?]] – Not "good", but great hope. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But this is discussed beforehand! You usually talk about this when you make a request!]] - Yes. We'll discuss it then. They say: more money for disability policy. I have a very small contribution to make to this motion for a resolution today. It's just four points. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More than 1,400 disabled people have so far achieved higher qualifications through important measures of the National Action Plan 99. We say that higher qualifications mean having greater opportunities means participating in society. We Social Democrats want to strengthen equal opportunities for the disabled through qualification, through new technologies, through further training, communication and information. These are our goals, and not how Mrs. Landeshaupt-Responsor Prokop in Lower Austria described it a little bit in Biedermeier-Manier: beautiful programmes for long-term unemployed as a landscape, as a water care provider, as auxiliary workers in the context of a project in the Pulkautal. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] – I just wonder where the right to qualification is and whether this is not pure employment therapy without a future perspective, Mrs Bauer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: There is a National Park! Do you understand?]] We want real opportunities for these people, and therefore allow me to make the following request – I also ask you to be allowed to leave out the reasoning – and come to the request as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Was that bad what we have done so far?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] If there is to be more money for disabled people, then forget Please explain your political-tactical considerations this time, explain yourself in solidarity with an all too easily forgotten group in this society and agree to this request! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9684	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9709	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The Federal Minister is absent, he is sure to set priorities. [[State Secretary Rossmann: He's here in the house!]] Soon there will be the marathon race – perhaps he is already busy in the training. He always cuts off very well! We must be able to set the priorities where they fall. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Where's your clubman?]] [[Call the Freeman and the ÖVP: Where is the Gusenbauer? Where's the caster?]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: He's not Minister! He doesn't have to be there!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – Probably not with you, not with me either! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No, I don't think so!]] I can tell anyone that I'm not sure I'm not participating in marathon races. High house! Workers are exorbitantly burdened by the planned government measures. Insurmountable access to pensions is worsened. Those who apply for early retirement are unable to work through burn-out or occupational diseases. On the other hand, effective prevention and effective worker protection help you disassemble. Minister of Labour and Economic Affairs in a person – this leads to a conflict of interest. It corresponds to morality to reject such functions because of partiality. The "committeeware Man" already described by Jura Soyfer does not need worker protection if it taxes the businesses. The novelle planned by the Chamber of Commerce destroys workers' protection. This government brings workers steps back over a century. What does the Chamber of Commerce-Gruselkabinett want to do, which is massively funded from taxpayers' funds? It has a threefold higher budget for a tenth of its members than the AK. By favouring the chamber contributions tax, the Chamber of Commerce has three times as high tax benefits as the Chamber of Labour, which shows that man is not worth the same amount. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] Safety and health protection applies only if the employer wishes to afford it, under "respect of the proportionality of the particular hazard and the effort for its disposal or evaluation". The criminality of the entrepreneur is almost gone. Workers' protection and compliance with the protection rules will become voluntary social benefits for entrepreneurs. The closest family of the Federal Minister has a company with high profits. This explains his attitude toward working people. The working hours of occupational physicians and safety technicians will be drastically reduced, and highly qualified safety and health experts will be reduced to the detriment of workers. The structural changes still gratifying doctor's chamber overlooks this reduction in health care. These are the consequences of the integration of the labour sector into the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The "committee of Workers" has to serve the interests of the economy. In recent days, reports of fatal accidents at work have abounded. By immediate death, these workers did not incur any cost except for the provision of survivors. The government is sure to thank them. [[Call to the liberals: This is a little tasteless!]] Workers' protection is for you what the economy tolerates to maximize profits, and not what is necessary in terms of occupational medicine and safety. It shocks me that an ex-family minister and father of many children in the Budget Committee said to raise the working time for young people in the tourism industry by 23 o'clock. His children's health is not at risk, it only affects the children of the poor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Night work has adverse consequences for all, especially young people. While his children enjoy their childhood and youth, the others are prepared in time for their serving role. The employers' contributions to health and accident insurance are intended to reduce: 15 billion schilling away from the workers, 20 billion schilling to the entrepreneurs. With self-retaining, health damage also has a financial impact on those affected. Not only is the treatment reduced, but also prevention services through free safety and occupational medical care for small businesses with which AUVA was only commissioned by the legislator at the beginning of 1999 are now rigorously reduced. The so far not concretely defined partial health status estranged by your coalition paper. Proposals for initiatives They will re-evaluate the review in order to damage workers as quickly as possible. My private patients never stayed in the hospital for too long! Hodgkin patients came to the treatment on Friday night, they broke down over the weekend to work again on Monday. These most seriously ill patients did not want to be sick or retired. Lockerer took it Pragmatized without worry about work and pay return. It is not yet clear to me what the costs and risks of the part-time sick are for the workers. Your atrocities are probably not exhausted, because you want to prove your efficiency. Watch the equality of people! The statements and the content of the Government Convention and the demands of the economy allow only one conclusion: the protection of workers is undermined, the profits of entrepreneurs increase, the funds for medical prevention, the elimination and reduction of health damage are drastically reduced, and self retention is required. Explain to us early on about your further social reduction! Tell us how you subordinate the interests of the workers to the economic interests, how you may cut the labour inspection, destroy the workers' chamber and give to other chambers! The once Christian-social party has no social competence. You were still able to exceed my unhighest expectations in this inhuman government. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We will be vehemently opposed to putting at risk and betraying workers' health in the interests of profit ceilings. We certainly do not agree with your despicable plans!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9855	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9900	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pittermann, I am very grateful for your speech: There would be no better contrast programme to a policy of future security, as it pursues this government, than your class battle speech, which actually entered into the 19th century. ==References====External links== [[Abg. May. Posch: I think so too!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They did not understand the signs of the time! [[Abg. Grabner: Neither do you!]] Her speech was hateful of class struggle thinking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We are very pleased that we can hold a budget debate on this chapter for the first time with a Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, Mrs Pittermann. That does not mean class struggle, that is, cooperation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Without economy there is no work, and without work there is no economy, ladies and gentlemen! You have not yet understood this, Mrs Pittermann. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We see not only the statements made by our Minister of Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State that business and work are in a boat. We have disbanded ourselves from this "castle thinking": here the economy and there the work, and we support the fact that business and work are one, Mrs Pittermann. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is not only reflected in programme explanations, but also in concrete measures, such as the approximation of the rights of workers and employees. What does that mean? – That is social justice, social fairness, but while maintaining the competitiveness of our country. [[Abg. Edler: Mogelpackung! Mogel pack!]] In the old style, it would have been to carry out the approximation and even more burden on farms. The new style is social fairness, social justice, while maintaining the competitiveness and thus the security of jobs, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs. Colleague! I do not wish to go into your debate, except because I only have a speaking time of 8 minutes, although it would be tempting to devote my entire speaking time to your speech. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] However, I would like to refer briefly to two quotations that can be read in today's newspapers. First quote: The danger for Austria is not neoliberalism, but the compulsion and overregulation of the economy. [[Call the SPÖ: The stupid!]] – Not a quote from stupid, but a quote from Hannes Androsch. [[Ah-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today to read in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten", ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I regret that, because of the SPÖ's left-wing truck after the election of Gusenbauers, opinions like those of Hannes Androsch in your party no longer have any significance. [[Abg. Edlinger: I have heard something else from you to the Lord Androsch!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Grabner.]] You think in categories of the past, Mr. Grabner! That's your problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, "rerule Austria" also means eliminating the overregulation of the economy, it means debureaucratisation of the economy, as Minister Bartenstein said, liberalisation of electricity and gas, it means that forces are again being freed to create jobs, that they are secured. This is the new way of ruling Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A second quote from today's newspapers. I'll tell you who said it. Professor Frisch, Chairman of the State Debt Committee, who is certainly not close to the ÖVP or FPÖ. Professor Frisch said today in the newspapers: The old Federal Government has not taken the stability target seriously enough. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You still belong to the old Federal Government!]] Now you're gonna say we were in government too. [[Abg. Grabner: Now!]] But who has determined fiscal policy, who has defined budgetary policy, who has prevented reforms, ladies and gentlemen? Who was that? – They were! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: 14 years you were in this government!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] And that you're yelling so loud now confirms your bad conscience. Ladies and gentlemen! Who rejected two years ago the use of an expenditure-saving committee that we requested? – Former Minister of Finance Edlinger. Who rejected the reforms? Who completely watered down the pension reform here in the House two years ago? – It was you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! They have blocked, prevented or watered the reforms. And that is why we have this reform backlog today! The experts of the European Union, Professor Frisch, Professor Felder, Professor Kramer of the Wifo, all agree: We need to run an even stronger savings course – while you say the pace is much too fast and how unsocial it is. You want to play the future of our children, ladies and gentlemen! We want to secure the future of our children! And that is the difference between your philosophy and our philosophy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: If everyone paid the same, it would be fair! But you leave certain population groups outside!]] And I'll tell you something: Do you know what I'm most pleased about at the moment? – At present, I am most pleased – and this has never happened to me in 20 years of parliamentary activity – that I am constantly being addressed on the street by strange people who say: Just keep going, finally, a fresh wind, at last the urgently needed reforms are coming! – This is motivation, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And we have this mood of departure in the economy, too. Where I am going today, there is confidence in the future again, a mood of departure, the new momentum is gladly accepted. And the successes have already come to an end. If we had less than 32,000 unemployed in April and more than 28,000 jobs, this is due to this start-up of the new Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm convinced: It will do this country very well and is also in the sense of political hygiene that we have a new government constellation that I trust and that I am convinced that it will successfully implement the reforms resulting from a combination of social responsibility and social fairness while maintaining competitiveness in the interests of the country and ensuring our jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10191	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10213	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Also on the future policy, on the future of children, but also, Mr President, on the danger that in the course of this economic policy, workers' representatives and thus workers' representatives could be cut off. Why do I say that? – I have a press article here – I’ve enlarged it a little – that really makes the situation very clear. [[The speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper article up to date.]] The title reads: Coalition changes the Workers' Chamber Act – reducing contributions for the first time openly. I ask you about the ÖVP: What's going to be Your OEAB people, the representative of your employees, to say about this? Or: What bothers you about the offensive intervention of the Chamber of Workers for the rights of consumers? Or are you disrupting the offensive intervention of the Chamber of Workers for the rights of women, in order to be compatible with the profession and family? Or are you disrupting the offensive action of the Chamber of Labour for apprentices, workers and employees who have taken millions of schilling on open wage demands? Or perhaps you are disrupting the pioneer work of workers' chamber law experts who are constantly confronted with new employers' tricks, who are trying to deal with social and labour law regulations? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We're bothering the privileges!]] Does this offensive intervention of the Chamber of Workers disturb you for the claims arising from labour law? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The privileges are disturbing us!]] [[Abg.: (in the direction of the Freeman) Look at your privileges!]] Are you disturbed by the offensive intervention of the Chamber of Labour, which is trying to introduce the numerous new forms of atypical employment relations for the benefit of those concerned of a socially acceptable legal regime? Or are you disrupting the offensive action of the Chamber of Labour for claims arising from pension and social security law? Last year, thousands of people with pension and social security issues were advised by the Chamber of Labour. Thousands of consultations were held, thousands of people were represented in court. Disturbed you with the offensive intervention of the Chamber of Workers for claims from the title – and listen to me, too! – labour market insolvencies? [[Abg. Wattaul: Party politics should also exist in the Chamber of Workers!]] There is no such thing in your area, but many businesses are going into insolvency, and the workers' rights are also immediately going into insolvency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the liberals and the ÖVP: the "consumer"! The consumer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: 17 000 jobs at the "consumer"!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: destroyed 17,000 jobs!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask the representatives of the ÖAAB whether they can really carry these things. This budget has been rejected by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer They also do not return to pay the sick who lie in the hospital and pay day money, in addition to 10 S insurance for medical defects committed to the sick. The sick must insure themselves for the art faults of the doctors! – Ladies and gentlemen, can this be your policy, can it be your policy, is that the policy of the future?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not hide from these measures, namely to cut down the funds of the Chamber of Labour, so that workers' rights can no longer be represented, you will not be afraid of having those workers who have lost their jobs, will not get their claims, but will have to face the right itself, because the Chamber of Labour no longer has the means to do so. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: How about the "consumer"!]] We will not agree to this budget, without social justice, without social balance. By intervening in the financial autonomy of the Chamber of Labour, you are burdening the weaker ones who must continue to put back their claims in the drive between the economy and the market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10370	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10391	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Actually, a pleasant picture – do you give me a right?, visually sporty – to see in the economic resort entrepreneurs who have already invested their own schilling in their lives. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's what the official Grollitsch says!]] That's where we know other pictures from the past. So we're satisfied with your policy, with your appearance, my esteemed reigns on the government bank. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right! The citizens too!]] Mr Nürnberger said earlier – he probably landed at the dentist now, he is toothless today –: It's just going – I emphasize: only! – problems of the long-term unemployed. Literally quote from Nuremberger. And this "only on the problems of the long-term unemployed" has become a request which he made at the end of the debate and in which he complains that 23 000 people have been reported to the labour market service for more than 12 months. He doesn't think about who's responsible. Can one really make the new government responsible for these figures? What has prevented you, Mr Nürnberger, and your group from stopping this over the last few decades? Faith You're actually aware that you can now cover "posthum" with a reputation from the opposition side for what you've failed for years and decades? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They complain in a further motion for a resolution that between 1993 and 1997 the number of identified disabled persons has increased to 84,877 people and is largely the same long-term unemployed. The same problem: Who is responsible for this? Who is responsible for such horror figures between 1993 and 1997? So the then opposition party, we liberals, at least not, and the new government probably not yet, but you yourself have to answer this, my reigns of links! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] From yesterday's debate there may be a little bit of a warm-up, which has gone down, namely the Relevant Limitation Act and the necessary reports. Mr President-in-Office of the Council has complained here that hundreds and hundreds of institutions, first and foremost, are not prepared to announce the income of their staff with a double cover. After a little research, you'll find out where the secret carriers are: Primaryly in the Chamber of Workers and in the union and in the socialist-dominated municipalities, there is this silence, this cover-up and cover-up. There one is not prepared to carry out the notification of the income sizes required by the contract-limitation law. – Transparency, my rule, transparency, especially on the Red Reichshalf! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] At the end of this debate, I actually wanted to turn to the Federal Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs – this combination is a happy one, we are glad to do so – namely to take seriously the concerns of the Austrian raw materials industry and to deal with the Mineral Raw Materials Act, which has been adopted here in the Husch-Pfusch process against all our efforts to participate constructively. I made a request from the liberals just a year ago, which included a security package for this MinroG, and in all the political groups, until Mr Eder, I was informed that there was a real law to be put in place here, which is to be repaired. I would ask you, Minister of State, to take this seriously. I can assure you from all political points of view the concerns of workers who are ecologically interested. Dr. Roßmann, for example, the Lower Austrian state environmental lawyer, believes that this mineral raw material law speaks against the serious interests of the abrasives and the environment. And the economy is concerned because the import of mineral raw materials explodes and the external trade deficit in this respect grows. Please give the Austrian businesses and their workers in coordination with the rights of the locals, with the rights of the countries that can assert their influence on the spatial planning, the possibility of operating and maintaining businesses, employing workers and being productive in the area of safeguarding the Austrian raw materials sector, rather than, as the law requires, preventing anything that can only be prevented! I'm asking you to do this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10476	The next speaker would be Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. Since only two minutes are missing at 3:00 p.m., my question to him is whether he's enough time. [[Abg. Ing. Gartlehner: Yes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10506	I'll give you a very brief speech. The essentials, I think, can also be said in one and a half minutes. When we debate the economy, it is clear, of course, that the framework for economic policy lies in budgetary policy. And if you want to address the not very ambitious report of the new Federal Government, the new stability programme here by 2005, I must say that this federal government is really in the process of implementing a very ambitious economic policy for several reasons. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] As we know, a very intensive and good budgetary consolidation policy has been implemented in recent years. I am thinking only of reducing the debt level of 1995. At that time we had a debt of 68 percent, and in 1999 we only owed more than 64.9%. We are not at the forefront of this, as Mr Grasser says, in Europe, but we are clearly below the euro section, which is 72.2 percent of GDP. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this statement by the Minister for Finance can be rejected. The EU criticises this unambitious programme – the Minister of Finance has picked up his focus on this stability programme and not on the policies of recent years – that the deficit ratio reduction project is not ambitious enough by 2003; 1.3 percent does not meet the standard to avoid exceeding the 3-percent limit in times of economic crisis. The objective of annual one-off revenue will be achieved in particular only through real estate sales and the expected surpluses of the local authorities will not occur. We know that this ludicrous regulation of the drinking tax and the advertising tax will mean that the municipalities will not be able to provide their services in the consolidation area. The debt situation even worsens, it is planned by this minister, compared to the last programme that the old Federal Government...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10545	Deputies! Do you want me to interrupt, or do you want to speak a final sentence? - One final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10561	I come to the conclusion: It is clear that this federal government, with its policies, especially with this clientele policy, cannot really pursue good economic policies, that in 2003, it will naturally be so that one will land an economic abdominal area and that it will certainly be re-elected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10591	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 1 of the agenda within the meaning of the relevant provisions. Request for urgent procedure Deputies Doris Buresund comrades to the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations on massive deterioration for the sick by the FPÖ/ÖVP tax package in the field of legal health insurance (750/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10621	I have succeeded in calling for Mrs Bures's urgent question No 750/J. As the request is made in writing to all Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11265	Mr Klubobmann spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11286	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall regulate urgent procedure for a written request and in respect of that member of the Government who answers that request: "The opinion or reply shall not exceed 20 minutes." There is now a urgent request consisting of 79 questions and 44 additional sub-questions. This gives 120 questions – on the thumbs – over the thumbs. [[Call the ÖVP: Madness!]] If the Secretary of State wants to answer this question, he has 10 seconds for each question. I would like to question this now because I know that the opposition, when a Minister or a State Secretary is speaking here on the government bank for more than 20 minutes, will become restless. If the Edellinger record of 55 minutes is exceeded in the answer to the question, usually debates will follow. In general, I would like to draw attention to the issue of this question and suggest that this question be discussed in the next presidential conference.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11340	As in the speech on business treatment this morning, I would like to say that I would of course like to be prepared to deal with this question in the next presidential. I also add that I did not know about your speech on business treatment five minutes ago that I would not, of course, interrupt it after 20 minutes, because it is such a detailed urgent request and there have already been several cases in which this 20-minute period has been substantially exceeded. My personal principle is to insist that the relationship between general, often politically-pointed opinions and concrete response to questions remains to a reasonable degree. However, I am quite sure that this will be the case with the Secretary of State. There is still a statement on the business of Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11370	Mr President. First of all, this speech by Mr Khol shows that the questions are obviously very unpleasant. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are therefore very excited about the answers. In the past, it has been impossible for members of the government to answer a request in summary. Clearly, this is now the preparation for the fact that this request is largely not to be answered at all. We are therefore very excited about the debate and the reply.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11406	The next word on business treatment comes from Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11427	Mr President. High house! These questions are not unpleasant, but there is already a certain parliamentary style if, according to the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of 20 minutes is not to be exceeded, but you are asking about 120 questions. Mr Kostelka! I should like to remind you that your group and yourself have always lamented if the liberals, when they were in the opposition, have asked only 30 questions in a urgent question. I say to you: You are not interested in the questions. You are also not interested in a proper response, but what you are doing here is an expression of your fundamental opposition, and we have to take note of that once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11466	I give the floor to Mrs Bures as the author of the motion for a resolution. The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11499	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I admit, of course, that this is a number of questions that we address to you, Mr State Secretary, as the representative of the Federal Minister. The problem, however, is that your policy leaves so many questions open, whose answers are not only of interest to the Socialist Group. Their policy leaves so many questions open, with the whole population having a right to be answered correctly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the last 30 years, the Socialists and Social Democrats have succeeded in taking up the vision of Bruno Kreisky, the fight against death before the time, and, as you can see, winning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] The average life expectancy is – thank you! – since 1970, men from 66.5 years to 74,7 years and women from 73.4 years to 80,9 years have risen. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: But not only in Austria!]] This could only be achieved through joint efforts by the Federal Government, the Länder, the municipalities, the Austrian social security scheme and, of course, by colleagues in the health sector. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] The implementation of our idea of a solidar, paid Austrian health system was only possible through compulsory health insurance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This enabled us to ensure equal access for all insured people and their families, especially children, to health care services regardless of age, gender and, in particular, their financial performance. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Is this a festival of people?]] The highly pronounced solidarity component of our system, especially for families, is of course the non-contributory co-insurance. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign the other day.]] – I know anyway: This reaction shows that you are sick by the government coalition and the burdens you feel for these people are totally no matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is unheard of! It's a joke! An rudeness!]] Otherwise, you can't explain your noise level for the listeners at the gallery. This model, which we have enforced for a solidary financing of the health system, has prevented something essential, namely that there is a two-class medicine. And that's exactly what you're putting at risk right now! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] They from ÖVP and FPÖ are planning an attack on the wallet, especially those people who find it difficult because they are sick, and thus, as in many other areas, endanger social solidarity. Your theme in these measures, which you clearly plan and to which we want concrete answers today, seems to be: Whoever is sick and has to suffer this suffering anyway must also be concerned about whether he can afford illness at all in the future. Let me just add a few words to what we have taken from your press releases and the government statement on what you are planning: up to 1 000 s of self-retaining in hospital hospitals per year and person, increasing self-retaining in hospital by around 43 percent, increasing prescription fees by more than 22 percent, general retention for all new medical services such as psychotherapy, reduction of the sickness benefit especially for severely ill people in this country, the removal... – Then come to the speaker's desk and say what you're planning to do to these people! [[Abg. Donabauer: There is no...! Don't talk nonsense!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Scandalous!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They delete the grants for relief. That sounds technical. But these are crutches, which means wheelchairs, which means glasses. In this area, you're shortening. They delete measures to strengthen health and prevent disease in prevention. Mr State Secretary! To all of this, you claimed in a broadcast that this was socially balanced, because it did not impose an additional burden on sick and socially weak people. – I feel it is cynical and humane if you make such statements. We know what you are planning – and it is in stark contradiction to what you promise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are actually meeting the weakest and sickest people with their planned non-social measures. You, just from the Freedom Party, have nothing but empty words for the "little" people. If you think of "small" people, then obviously you only think of their wallet. They burden the serious illness by reducing the sickness benefit to 52 weeks. These are cancer patients, patients in need of chemotherapy or radiation therapy with severe brain bleeding. These are those people who need a longer illness than 52 weeks, people who have suffered ruins in the event of accidents at work. – Only so that everyone knows what people here are talking about, which one you are beginning to shorten. Mr State Secretary! You have said in relation to these very bad cases that there will be a regulation, with people - you have called it so - "with limited life expectancy". What does that mean? Come on. Then, as a doctor, you are too seriously ill people and say: You get sickness benefit over 52 weeks, because you only have a limited life expectancy? Is that what you're planning? [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is scandalous!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Unheard! Humanely disdainful!]] Are these the measures that you now want to take, regardless of the obvious and tangible social view, as it should rule? Is that your black and blue goal you're planning? You will introduce ambulance fees of 150 S and 250 S respectively, and you will increase the fee from 72 S to 100 S. You may do this, as I can read from an APA issue, Mr State Secretary, for the following reason – you did on 14 May. April means in an APA issue –: "One could say that the hospital is the most popular second residence of the Austrian." [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's unheard of! Cynical!]] Mr State Secretary! What people do you think or think of this "honorful" coalition from jux and tolling to a hospital or simply visit a hospital ambulance for fun? Mr State Secretary! This is another of your cynical and humane statements. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I suspect that a massive attack on the well-run hospital hospitals is also planned behind the introduction of ambulance charges. I hope it doesn't have to do with medical stand-up policy that you represent. That is why I am saying this because there are statements on this matter from you. For example, you have once compared the cost of a treatment in an ambulance with the average case cost in free practice. You know that you compared apples to pears, because of course, as far as the service spectrum of the ambulances is concerned, this in no way can be compared with the average cost of a single medical certificate without drug costs. In a next issue, they said that the major debt to the financing problems of social health insurance in the ambulances and hospitals is to be looked for. Although you did immediately after that – two hours you obviously needed to get that you are completely wrong – the whole thing was different again, but I think that the evidence is enough for your rejection of hospital hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already mentioned the increase in the fee per hospital stay from 72 S to 100 S. This includes, as I can see from press releases and press releases, 10 pages dedicated to financing a new patient insurance scheme. Is it really clear to you that patients are so to speak themselves to the cash desk and in future pay their own pains and compensation payments? – They completely discharge the hospitals, they completely discharge the doctors and the pharmaceutical industry from their responsibilities; they no longer have a responsibility to take over. This is your policy: Everything on the back of sick people and patients! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: This is stupid! ... on the right!]] I've already mentioned the relief. This government is planning savings in the payment of relief aid. These will become so expensive for patients that it may no longer be possible to afford lower and medium income levels to get a proper wheelchair or ordinary crutches. Perhaps, if you have several children, you can no longer afford vision aids such as glasses and contact lenses if you no longer receive grants. They know that if the reference to the local health telephone is made, they have already exhausted their constitutional limits, because they have tried to ensure that the insured are freed from the maximum financial burden. Is this the social justice the FPÖ spoke about in the election campaign? It is as in all other areas: They promised a lot and broke everything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Socialist Two-Class Medicine! No tooth replacement! No dental crowns!]] In the future, you are planning to make new payments, for example, you want a 20 percent self-retainance for psychotherapy. This measure is not like your other press releases, but it is already under review with the pension tax package. This means – we can take it as a concrete example again – that you have broken one of your suffrages again. They have said that there will be no self-retaining of established doctors. You're now doing it in psychotherapy at 20 percent. You promised, and you broke! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary! We have, of course, already noticed in the last urgent questions that you want to steal before answering questions. She and the entire government – this is not only true of the FPÖ coalition partners, we are also experiencing this with the ÖVP ministers – want to steal from it before answering the questions! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Where did the cast farmer steal?]] But I'll tell you again: The population has a right to know how it is. The population has a right to know how to get her in the bag. I really urge you to answer the important questions and not to make and say that is too much for you. – It’s not too much for you, you just don’t have the courage to say this clearly here and today, because it’s – in summary – the biggest strain of this coalition, which is aimed at the smallest and the weaker. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This has shown the budget debate. Today, we will also see this on the example of the sick, for the savings are meeting these people in full. And your pace in the first 100 days shows only the speed with which you want to pull the money out of your pocket. The leitmotif of Blue-Black, the leitmotiv of this coalition, means to get sick people into the bag: Whoever's sick, pay! . I can tell you that the Social Democracy will, on the other hand, take all its strength.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11778	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11800	Mr President. High house! I have the opportunity today, on the basis of the urgent request of Members Bures on the subject of statutory health insurance according to § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to reply by word of mouth. As Mr Khol has mentioned, this question raises a total of 79 questions, some of which are still subdivided by individual liters, so that almost 120 different questions can be answered. I will try, despite the now extended timeline, not to make use of it by way of a fee, but to try to answer this request in the best possible way within this time span. I ask you to understand that in the time available to me I cannot address all the details of the questions. With regard to the reasons for this urgent question, I would like to make it clear that the Federal Government does not provide for massive deterioration for sick people in the area of statutory health insurance. Instead, the government parties have rejected any rationalization and restriction of benefits in their health programme in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Instead, the Federal Government's actions aim to maintain the quality of the Austrian health system and to improve it in the interests of patients by ensuring its financing with the best possible consideration of social balance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is an undertaking for which the starting position cannot be described as very positive. Since the initial assumptions of a possible termination of social security funds were for a long time rejected by the competent authorities and the former head of the department, Mrs. Hostasch, almost spread unbridled optimism over the financial situation of social security schemes, the true situation remained hidden for a long time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] ==References== In December of last year, the former German Chancellor climate found it worth the effort to give an indication of the departure at the now known level of about 3 billion schilling. Finally, only when the new Federal Government took up, did the real amount of the need for rehabilitation come to light, and in April of this year the actual figures in the Annual General Meeting of Social Security were confirmed. The Federal Government has responded as soon as possible and has invited all the actors and groups involved in the Austrian health system to participate in ensuring the health system by rehabilitating the health insurance system. On the basis of these consultations, the Federal Government has tied up a package of measures which will, as a whole, bring in the amount now projected as possible. The cornerstones of this rehabilitation are, on the one hand, savings in the social security sector as well as in the medicinal products sector and on the other hand accompanying measures. In concrete terms, the following specific measures have been adopted to implement: Savings in the administrative area of the main association and health insurance companies as well as in the expenditure on discretion by using synergies such as the realization of a functional computer network, increase in efficiency, stop-up as in the federal government, demand for the remaining zero wage round, as has already been done in the public service, deletion of non-current allowances, and in the area of voluntary higher statutes, there is an annual savings of 1.5 billion schilling. This will be achieved, among other things, by flexible budgeting. Further: Savings in pharmaceutical costs with the aim of reducing the expected cost increases by 2.5 billion schilling by the end of 2001. This objective can be achieved by reducing the wholesale range and the pharmacies margin as well as by ongoing negotiations between the main association and the pharmaceutical industry using existing instruments. In contrast to the last attempt to reorganise in 1996, the Federal Government has preceded this package of measures with three essential principles: no limitation of medical benefits, no increase in health insurance contributions and no retention of established doctors. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Instead, the aim of rehabilitation is to be achieved by reducing administrative burden, reducing pharmaceutical costs and driving measures, with the aim of providing patients with a greater degree of care in established doctors and thus reducing the frequency in hospital hospitals. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I now allow myself to answer the questions raised in analogy to the breakdown of the urgent question. Questions 1 to 5 – Sickness benefit: On the question of the sickness benefit, I note that there is no reduction in the sickness benefit, but an Austrian-wide adjustment of this claim between the various health insurance institutions. In addition, it does not correspond to the fact that a complete deletion of the claim is provided for over 52 weeks. I would also like to point out that four of the nine local health telephones already grant the entitlement to health care for a maximum of 52 weeks. Thus, the insurance institution shall determine as early as possible the extent to which payments of the sickness benefit should continue to be made in the interest of the patient. Payments made over 52. In addition, in justified cases, the basic humanitarian system corresponds and does not constitute a death penalty. Thus, from a medical-ethical point of view, the forecasts of limited life expectancy mentioned in your request must be rejected as inadmissible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Questions 6 to 36 – Ambulance fees and catering costs: The order made in the request, which is to be paid for 250 S per visit if an ambulance is sought by a practical doctor or a specialist, 150 S per visit, if the ambulance is used directly without a transfer, and a maximum treatment contribution per patient and year of 1 000 S is not exceeded, is correct. Those patients who are currently exempt from the prescription fee will also be exempt from the fee. The statement that the Austrians are very spitasful does not come from me. She was made by the head of the Austrian Federal Institute for Health in a department, which stated that Austria, with regard to its number of inhabitants, has the highest level of siege in the stationary area in international comparison. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It should be made clear that no patient from Jux and Tollery uses the services of the hospital. Costs in the field of hospital hospitals are necessarily due to the fact that in recent years the number of cases has increased from 4.3 million in 1992 to well over 5 million in 1998. This automatically leads to an increase in costs, not only in matters but also in personnel, which is known to be the largest share of health care, so that, if only part of this increase can be reduced in the future, a cost reduction in this area is imperative. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Both the figures on the average treatment costs in the field of ambulances and in the established area are derived from the calculations of the main association of the Austrian social security funds. There is no question that the implementation of the various package of measures must take account of the regional situation. In recent years, for example, structural planning has been referred to the level of the various catchment areas. The fact is that 51 percent of the outpatient cases are due to instruction from established doctors. The question of the use of a hospital hospital in the hospital law is settled, and it is the responsibility of the respective hospital to determine whether or not care is justified in the field of ambulances. The terms of admission are regulated by the Hospital Law and do not require any further interpretation. As the conditions for the payment of ambulance fees are the same, there is no inequality either. The planned partial outsourcing of patients from hospital hospitals requires accompanying measures to be agreed with the institutions concerned, i.e. social insurance and medical chambers. The APA report, which I blamed most of the financing problems of social health insurance for the ambulances and hospitals, was based on a false report and was immediately put right by me. Changes in the field of hospitals are the responsibility of the countries and of the relevant health care institutions. It is not primarily the question of closing outpatients, but it must be achieved that increased cooperation between the ambulances and the established area is taking place. – A closing recommendation does not result in this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The task of emergency care by the hospitals is adequately regulated in the Hospital Law. We are also not aware of any complaints in this area, and there is therefore no need to provide for something in this area. In view of the planned counter-calculation of ambulance charges with the benefits of social health insurance, the future Article 15a B-VG agreement on the financing of hospitals with the countries currently under negotiation is required. With regard to the payment of the ambulance fee in the case of a seventh visit, it should be noted that the amount of ambulance fees per year and patient is limited by 1 000 s. On the question 37 – indebtedness-independent patient compensation fund: In the future, the hospital must provide 10 S per day for a non-indebted patient compensation fund. This is independent of an adjustment of the day money. The hospital has only the opportunity to redirect 10 s of this amount in the framework of the daily fee. Since there is already an insurance scheme for patients in the established area of liability insurance and arbitration agencies in each federal state, this measure has been used to approximate the hospital area – and it is therefore necessary to make these funds available from there as well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Questions 38 to 49 – Recipe fees and self-medication: The increase in the prescription fee is to be seen in the area of the overall measures aimed primarily at changing the practice of prescription – such as therapy without medication, increased prescription of generics, economics module, list of medicinal products with price comparison – and in this context it is pointed out that two thirds of prescriptions are carried out via prescription exemption, so that social damage is excluded. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In addition, the medical profession is obliged to prescribe medication through contractual agreements on economic behaviour. The past has shown that at least in the short term, any increase in the prescription fee entails a reduction in prescriptions. An extension of self-medication will be carried out only in accordance with scientific and medical criteria in accordance with the requirements of the prescription law and in accordance with the European Union Directives. There can therefore be no mention of yielding to the pharmaceutical industry. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the case of a private purchase of medicines, the cash discount cannot play a role. As already stated in Question 44, an extension of the prescription obligation can only be carried out after professional evaluation by appropriate experts. In view of the fact that such a form of opinion does not exist, neither the extent of the derogation from the prescription requirement nor its economic impact can be estimated. I do not expect any extra burden on patients by increasing the possibility of self-medication, since prescription-free medicines can also be replaced by health insurance in the case of appropriate indication. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Self-medication is reserved for those medicinal products which, after an accurate assessment, can be released by experts, since their potential for adverse reactions does not require medical supervision. Of course, this assessment also plays an important role in the potential for abuse of the medicinal product and in the frequency of abuse observed. In a general trend towards more self-medication, it will therefore be necessary to prevent newly recognised abuse potential for certain medicinal products through concrete measures under the prescription law. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Questions 50 to 52 – Aids and remedies: The question of whether cures and remedies are becoming even more expensive for patients cannot at present be answered. The draft law of a Social Rights Change Act 2000 is currently under review. In the event of an appropriate legislative decision, the implementation shall, in addition, be the responsibility of the main association within the framework of the model statutes and the individual health insurance institutions. Furthermore, it is up to the social security institutions to seek social security in the area of relief and assistance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Questions 53 to 59 – Payments for newly introduced services: The Federal Government has only decided for psychotherapy services that, when concluding a contract with the psychotherapist, a 20 % self-retainable benefit is provided for in the new social security scheme. I very much regret that there has been no conclusion of a contract so far. Furthermore, there is no general intention by the Federal Government to introduce a self-retaining on new social security benefits. Questions 60 to 64 – Advantage of the introduction of the chip card: The possibility of early introduction of the chip card is currently being examined, taking into account the requirements of the ongoing procurement procedure. It has already been established by the previous Federal Government that the introduction of the chip card of the health certificate is not possible, which also eliminates the fee for the health certificate. It is not intended to introduce a general percentage restraint. I can only answer further details on the technical procedure for the introduction of the chip card when the procurement procedure is completed. However, all measures related to the introduction of the chip card will be carried out in accordance with the applicable legal provisions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Questions 65 to 69 – Savings in the field of pharmaceutical costs: With 1. A new regulation on maximum increases in wholesale medicinal products will be introduced on June 2000. This new regulation corresponds to a reduction in the average wholesale trade in human beings by 1.4 percent or an annual reduction in the cost of pharmaceuticals wholesale trade of around 184 million schilling and thus the value of 1998 to which we wanted to return it. The Price Commission will be tasked with applying cost-effective medicines to an EU-wide price comparison and with the implementation of appropriate price adjustments. As far as industrial prices are concerned, I fully support the negotiations of the main association of Austrian social security institutions. If necessary, legal measures may also be adopted. A retroactive agreement has already been reached between the main association and the pharmacist's chamber, where financial return from this reduction in the margins is already taking place. There is no need for a special sanctions mechanism in the field of medicinal products to be applied to contractual doctors – and I do not therefore provide for it. In order to ensure the optimum supply of medicinal products to the population and to prevent the risk of possible rationalization, any cover is removed in the area of medicinal products. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Questions 70 to 76 – Administrative savings: ==References== In May of this year, the Federal Minister Dr. Sickl awarded an implementation order to the Bureau of the main association of the Austrian social security institutions for the realization of savings in the administrative field. The implementation of appropriate measures is in the field of self-management of social security funds. No legal measures are necessary in order to ensure the IT-based billing between doctors and health insurance institutions. No weighting is foreseen between the individual health insurance institutions in the sent draft. A comparison of benefits between the different health insurance institutions is currently difficult. There are also differences in performance in the performance law under the ASVG, and it is therefore not possible to compare it specifically as set out in the request. The fact that the ASVG health insurance companies currently have about half the administrative costs per person compared to other health insurance companies is not correct. Service deterioration and closures of outposts of the local health phone are not foreseen. In addition, no restrictions on controls against contractors, service providers and insured persons are planned. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Questions 77 and 78 – Controlling Board: A health insurance checkup has been in place for a number of years. There are monthly reports which have, however, been abstained from the public in recent years, which I do not intend to do. In the sense of an accompanying measure, control is understood by me as a control instrument – and not as a criminal measure. In this context, reference is also made to the existing legal provisions in the ASVG concerning the liability of the institutions of the social security institutions. These legal regulations appear sufficient. In the event of a firm negligence, a supervisory right is also provided for by the Federal Ministry. On the question 79 – Self-administration: I do not intend to shut down the basic democratic self-government. I consider the organization of social security, in which the groups concerned, namely, contributors and service providers by their elected representatives manage social security matters themselves, to be a modern state administration oriented to the needs of people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The statements of Mr. Bundeskanzler express the legitimate concern about the functioning of the Austrian social security system. There can be no question of questioning existing structures and the willingness of social security to make necessary reforms. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12195	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his statement on the answer to the urgent question. We are now entering the debate. Each group has a speaking time of 25 minutes, with no speaker being allowed to speak in this debate for more than 10 minutes. Mrs Pittermann has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12243	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! "No cuts in sickness benefit" is true only if you comply with the current legal requirement. There was, however, the possibility of paying out longer sickness benefits, namely in the case of serious illness. And it's very unfortunate if we can't afford the sick money anymore. It is only a small group of people, and it would be good to continue to pay for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The collection and administration of the ambulance fee is still not known to us in detail. Who's taking this one? - The doctors in the ambulances? The administrative staff? Is an act of revelation being sent? Who is to check at the end of the day whether these 1 000 s have really been reached? Does the patient pay the first time he gets to the hospital? Does he pay if he's transferred from one ambulance to another? – All these questions are still unexplained, and we would have liked to have more answers to them so that we also know what we are expecting. You know, Mr State Secretary: Especially in the area of children, the ambulances are visited when treatment is not possible with the established physician, such as in the case of cancers, in the case of children with leukemia, in the case of transplants, in children with severe neurological disabilities, in psychiatricly impaired children and so on. They all need special treatments. There are certainly many parents who are hurting these 1,000 s a year. Or: Is there an exception for children? Or is it only a recipe-free person? How do you want to explain to parents who have several children, where often only one parent who deserves little is there, that they have to pay suddenly for treatments that are indispensable and necessary for the child's survival. We know that oncology in St. Anna Children's Hospital and the University Children's Hospital really treat those children whose treatment is not possible outside. For this reason we have also the § 26 KAG, which regulates very precisely what diseases one has sought out in accordance with the law. The first point is the first-aid service, which remains excluded. But what about the other services? What about the benefits related to organ transplant? Do the donors of stem cells have to pay ambulance fees for the investigations – or is that charged to the recipient? I still don't see how this is planned in detail, but I hope we'll get information about it soon. Do we have to sue the patients if they don't pay? Are these being tried? How will it be with the pensioners? These now have increased contributions because they do not have a health certificate fee – then the health certificate fee falls for all; but the pensioners then have the self-retaining of the ambulances, and for them there is a deterioration. Do you remember to change the ASVG again so that the contribution of pensioners to health insurance will fall to the level before 1996? Even when the birth grant was abolished, we have already noticed that the parents use the mother-child-pass examinations less. I am really concerned about what it will be like with the children currently being treated in special ambulances, but also, of course, what the adults are getting. Cancer patients, leukemia patients, are also naturally visiting hospital hospitals, as are patients after transplants. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That would have been a good question! Haven't you formulated the questions? Then you would have received an answer to that too!]] Do I stand on it as an interviewer? I didn't make the requests. With us he has formulated the questions whose name stands on them; you will have seen that. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] But I'm glad you trust me with good questions. This compliment from you builds me up once again today. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You can ask medical questions from the President of the tenants' association!]] – I don’t let anyone ask me medical questions. And: They were not addressed to me either. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: But now ask questions!]] I'm sure I'll be able to ask questions now. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: This is a debate – and not a question hour!]] Don't interrupt me constantly; They'll be there anyway! [[New call for intercession with the liberals.]] The discussion about the high ambulance costs in the hospitals is not very serious in my view, because the hospital staff, which causes the main costs, is already available for stationary care – especially now that is not very serious, where we have the Hospital Working Time Act and therefore also needs to be included in more hospital staff. If in the hospitals, in the ambulances where the staff is there, then fewer treatments will take place, then the hospital hospitals are more expensive. But I've heard that it's not supposed to be about firing staff there. But then I don't understand the saving effect again. More than 600 to 1 000 doctors, which I welcome only for the medical care of patients, you know, but this costs much more social security. We assume that Vienna has the best care in terms of established doctors, which has been confirmed in recent APA reports. In Vorarlberg and Upper Austria they are still very thin sown. It's probably going to be. They are trying to increase these places. But then the health insurance companies there will be worse, because that, of course, costs. Who has used internal medicine in particular to frequent the ambulances? – These were haemodialysis patients, patients with haematological, oncological and radiation patients. They will not continue to be treated so much outside. Or are you thinking of a blood transfusion in the established practices? – You can try everything: But it certainly won't be cheaper. And if the quality is then maintained, I would like to doubt very much. It is said that, of course, only patients who comply with the Hospital Law will be admitted. – Yes, what about private hospitals? There are also physicians who then assign these patients to infusions in private hospitals through the ordinations. Now you can say he's privately insured; that's right. We just don't forget: In all private hospitals, social health insurance pays its contribution. So this is at the expense of the public – and not only at the expense of private health insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Mrs. Vranitzky can be treated in Germany immediately!]] It was also discussed about the 10 S for patients for indebted-independent insurance. You, Mr State Secretary, have referred to the Conciliation Board. There, of course, the patients of the established doctors are also being discussed about the patients of the hospitals. All doctors pay liability insurance, not only the established, but also the hospitals pay liability insurance. I would have expected you, Mr State Secretary, to have a joint influence on private insurance to pay for damages – and not only if the doctors were condemned for an artificial error. Nor does liability require criminal conviction first in order for insurance to be paid. So why don't we pay the private liability insurance we pay for damages that are caused. Only for those damages which no longer can be attributed, because one does not know what they were caused by, should a pot be found in which pharmaceutical companies, medical devices companies and also liability insurance could be paid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would interest me very much – or would there be the same recording diagnosis in private patients and in patients who only come to the hospital on health insurance? – how the diagnosis difference is in the private hospitals. It is always said that even patients who visit a private hospital because of cardiac decompensation do not leave it without any of their body openings being considered – also to maximize incomes. As I said, Social security pays only the daily rate. Social security is currently paying one in the hospital stoves. It spends approximately as much on the deposit for the fund hospitals as on medical aid, an amount of around 33 billion schilling; for drug costs about 25 billion schilling. The last conclusion of wisdom, however, is certainly not generics, and I think we all would not use high pressure agents on a generic basis for ourselves or our relatives – and I mean, then we don't have the right to administer the patient either. – You wouldn’t do that either. [[in the direction of Secretary of State, Dr. Waneck, sitting on the Government Bank]] Of course, I see your sympathy for a colleague of government, but that should not be so far. The 20 most expensive drugs in social security were just as modern drugs, which are not yet available with expired patents as generics. I would really like all patients to have the same access to modern medicine – and not just those who are privately insured.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12380	Please put to the end, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12395	Your first statements, Mr State Secretary, made me hope for other measures, such as: Increase in the maximum contribution base or increase in health insurance contributions. I regret the fact that you, Mr State Secretary, had to join your government colleague – and that you still have to defend it now. I know you differently.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12425	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12447	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I do not need to address Mrs Pittermann's speech separately, but when I looked at the presence of the Social Democratic Members during this extensive reply by Mr Waneck's Secretary of State, I could say and write on average! – count 14 SPÖ members in the hall. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And that by a dreary!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Their interest in answering these 79 questions is reflected in the number of SPÖ delegates present. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I even understand the criticism of Mrs Bures, because she is now an opposition politician, but I would have expected her, if she had already made so much criticism, to make at least some small approach to counter-proposals. – But nothing! I didn't hear anything about this! Not the slightest counter-proposal, as the Social Democrats would do better! A contentless emptiness of her interpretations that she has made! The only thing that was clear: a fundamental opposition policy! Fundamental Opposition Policy – that is the only thing you can do! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What you can do – and that hurts me very much as a doctor: They scare old and sick people! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] From the beginning of the debate on the reform of the health care system, try to inflame people that they can no longer afford to stay in hospital in the future, for example, with hip surgery about 20,000 or 30 000 S themselves have to pay – and much more. A few weeks ago, a patient came to me: 80 years, severely disabled, who can no longer walk because of their hard-to-use hips. Now she finally has an appointment for the operation. She's been waiting for months. Now this old lady has heard this debate, this hetch campaign, this unprecedented hetz campaign by the Social Democrats, by the Chamber of Workers and so on – who always participates in it, so among other things, the Greens. This old lady came with tears in her eyes to me in the ordination and said: Doctor, I wouldn't have expected you to do that! [[Call the SPÖ: There she was at the right place!]] Now, that's what this lady said, I have to cancel the operation date, because I can't afford the new hip joint anymore. – She cried, depression was there – and you from the left try to achieve political change on the back of the sick and the weak! That's what I'm condemning! That's incredible! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals:Pfui devil!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] It is you, my dear Social Democrats, who have mainly contributed to the dilemma in social health insurance schemes. In this context, I mention the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, SPÖ-dominated, exclusively red are in there – apart from a black, a certain Dr. Schwimmer, but otherwise loud red. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Vrannitzky is flying with a private plane, with a private machine, accompanied by a companion, to Hanover and can be treated there! And Mr. Vrannitzky, then the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, can pay 420 000 S for travel and treatment costs in Germany from the Vienna regional health fund! [[Call to the liberals: Unheard!]] I have said that before – and that has not been revoked, so I say that again. In the meantime, ex-Bundeschanzler Vranitzky has also become known for his free flights. I now wonder if the WestLB has also financed the flight for Mrs. Vrannitzky for treatment in Hanover – and whether it was a flight, which the regional health insurance fund then still finances and Mr. Vrannitzky has, so to speak, picked up the money a second time! That's what I'm asking myself, and that's what I'd like to investigate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: We will clarify everything in the Court of Auditors Subcommittee!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Unheard of what you say!]] [[Further calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] It was you, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ who have constantly increased health insurance contributions! For example, in 1991 – a very concrete example – you increased health insurance contributions with the "argument" to introduce psychotherapy on health certificate. – To this day, there is no psychotherapy on sick leave! Nine years later still not! Only a few days ago, President Sallmutter, who is sitting like a Made in the bacon of social security, did he not do anything... [[Call the SPÖ: It is a cowardice!]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] President Sallmutter said: Don't even get into question! – This is unheard of by Mr. Sallmutter when he says something like that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Patients paid higher contributions for nine years – nine years please! – and don't get anything for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12631	Mr Pumberger, you know that people are not talking about people like this! I would ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12672	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have ordered the removal of care material in patients with artificial side exit! Your socialist-dominated health insurance fund, the main association, they did this! And you have also halved the pocket money for the disabled! You have also increased the recipe fee from 33 S to 44 S in 1997 if you increase from 1. January's billed. This is percent far more than is planned now. And none of you got excited about it! [[Abg. Edlinger: You are not talking about measures!]] They have raised the daily allowance in the hospital from 0 S to 70 S and have not provided for patients to receive indebted patient insurance. You have not provided, but you have collected 70 S net cash. Nothing has happened in the sense of patient rights. But we have a better policy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edlinger: I would be ashamed of you!]] That is why I would like to thank you for the request made today. I would like to thank you because the Secretary of State had the opportunity to address it in detail. We had the opportunity to clarify our programme, our aim for this health reform. This government programme proves that it is better than the Social Democrats have done in the last 30 years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are not willing to allow a restriction of medical services as you have done in recent years. We are not prepared to raise the health insurance contributions as you have done, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats – with the support of the ÖVP; I do not want to take you out of duty. [[Abg. Edlinger: tax everything!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We are not prepared to introduce the self-retaining to the established doctor, because it is possible to steer the ambulance by burdening it with a minor, socially acceptable restraint and thus forcing the way to the established doctor, who often causes only about 30 to 40 percent of the cost of a hospital clinic in good care. [[Abg. Edlinger: You do the medicine for the rich!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Of course you will continue to abcashen!]] At the same time, we have a structural reform, and we have finally put an insurance in place for indebted-independent errors that cause the patient to suffer, for which the patient has nothing to do with it. [[Abg. Bures: They pay the patients themselves!]] They don't pay for them themselves. The hospital pays 10 p. Money doesn't have a mesh, that's mandatory for the hospital. They have collected 70 S and have not respected the patient's rights. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the health policy we are doing that makes the new reform coalition. [[Abg. Edler: Get down with the little people! Get rid of the little people!]] This is for the future, for our patients, for social balance and for structural reforms. [[Abg. Edlinger: The kid pays, and the doctor cashes!]] We are against mismanagement, against waste and against party accounting in the health insurance companies. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Get away with the political officials from the health insurance companies! Away with the political influence from the hospitals and from the post office! Then we can make a healthy, decent, forward-looking health policy. We're on the best way.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12837	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12867	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and in the plenary! High house! Mr State Secretary! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Dear friends!]] – It is not you right now, Mr Cot. The aim of this Federal Government, which also accepts the difficult issues, is clearly the following: We work for the good, for the people, for this land and for the failures that have existed. [[Abg. Edellinger: Jössas, I'll start crying right now! Such a "good" person!]] We will not allow you to do anything about this implementation, because we believe we are on the right track. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger! The urgent question manifests itself as particularly urgent when I look at which one of you is there, which is very few. This is what I see as your concern, not the matter, but the political spectacle. You can also have an answer to that. No problem. [[Abg. Edlinger: You are a good person! Goodness is written to you in the face!]] I believe that this issue deserves a completely different presence and treatment. When Mrs. Bures writes in her urgent question, "The Austrian health system represents equal access for all insured persons to all benefits for the solidary, pay-back-financed compulsory insurance", it is true, and we will guarantee that in the future. The peaceful and shaping force of the People's Party, which sits in the middle of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Edellinger.]] And if you believe that this good system, which we have developed in all stages, at all times, in all matters, could now become a two-class medicine, then you are mistaken. Not with us! If you want to study the two-class medicine – I give you this recommendation – then go to London. Tony Blair is ruling there. It operates the two-class medicine, namely that certain people do not have access to special benefits, that age limitation is taking place. That's two-class medicine! That's not what we do, but that's what others do: Your friends! This has to be shown once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to see a little more materiality, a little more care and a better language culture on this important question in view of formulations such as "attack on the wallets", "primary motive" of the "blue-black Abkassier coalition". Ladies and gentlemen! You don't think so? Is that the language you want to enter here? – I have you in better memory; I have seen and experienced you differently. But that's it? - That can't be your way. [[Abg. Edellinger: Oh yes! Of course! We want people to understand us!]] [[Abg. Eder: This is the language of the people.]] If you believe that you can frighten the citizens with your propaganda, then we will show you that this is going to be empty! Your messages that special treatments require a huge contribution from citizens to participate, do not vote in partout. This will not come in the way you represent it. This fear-making company is currently only the only topic for you on the AK election! That's what we see everywhere. Because you probably don't have a theme, write it down. It'll be over soon. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, there have always been problems in the field of health insurance, I quote from an article in the magazine "NEWS" of 16. In December, a Mr President Sallmutter, whom you know and whom I know, expressed great concern. He also had a concept, as he said, in the briefcase – it is here to read. To discuss, he's going to negotiate with the doctor's board. – That was his concept of solving the problems that actually exist. You see this as a achievement that you have tried to arrange things. That's not the way we need to find now. Now you're going to say that there's something terrible about self retention. I can remind you: There is already 11.5 billion schilling across all systems today. In the event that you may not have it completely under control: in the ASVG 10 percent for relatives in the hospital. That's exactly what we decided! Health certificate fee: They requested it, and we decided to do it. Recipe fee: They requested it, and we decided to do it. – These are self-holders that have existed so far. I believe that if we consider self-preservation to be a regulatory instrument, then it is somewhat correct, but with a social protection clause. That's what we've always said. However, we do not want to downgrade self-tention as you have sometimes said, as a purely financial instrument. A second one: Today, in the urgent request, they found that the recipe fee should be increased by 22 percent. I ask you: What did you request in 1995 when, of course, we voted in favour because there was a deficit of 2.5 billion schilling in the health insurance funds at that time? – At that time you requested an increase of over 30 percent, ladies and gentlemen! All these are things that have been there before and which we now need to ensure performance and will also be urgently needed in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you may need an explanation of why the situation is so, please read what Director Felder writes from the Institute of Higher Studies. He says very clearly that demographic development alone forces action, as expenditure per regulation on drugs alone increased from 160 S in 1995 to 250 S in 2000. We offer better services. Of course, we cannot, as I said, provide new achievements with old instruments, but we also need new ways to achieve the new services. We showed her. They're socially balanced. They are reasonable, and that is why we will also discuss them openly with you because we have no problem in standing up for the good. [[Abg. Edlinger: People will judge whether they are reasonable!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You have also written that, in your opinion, the administrative costs between each institution are a problem. They have shown that, for example, the local health insurance fund manages per insured person with 1 120 S. That's right. The others manage with 1 150 S! I ask you: Where is the difference between the local health insurance fund and the other carriers you want to address? – The difference exists only in the insurance clientele they have to operate. If the urgent question asks whether territorial health services are at risk, I may inform you, if you do not know, that a prominent director of a local health insurance fund has given the following answer to the challenge of 1.5 billion schilling in administrative cost savings: I don't care, I'm gonna lock the district offices. – This is the answer to a question asked by the government to self-government. [[Abg. Eder: In which cash register are you busy? In what cash register are you busy, Mr. Donabauer?]] That is how politics and social policy cannot be made! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eder.]] Since you are always talking about social balance, I can remind you that there is today a contribution rate of 3.75% of pensioners to statutory health insurance. This factor is enriched with a multiplier of the federal government. I ask you why you use only the factor 300 or 315 in the area of railway health insurance and other health insurance. Why didn't you make a balanced social policy here? – You have done just what you were right and what you did well! [[Abg. Eder: What did you well!]] We will make a balanced and acceptable social policy for all. There will be no way by. I told you, Andrea Hodoschek said that this government is facing rigorous savings measures. It has enormous challenges to face, to put in place major structural measures, and a proper step is to reform the pension system, and this should also be seen by the trade union. [[Abg. Eder: Farmers' cash! Are you at the farmer's fund? Which checkout are you at?]] Opposition policy must not go so far as to negate and suppress realities. Ladies and gentlemen! That is a clear message, you should think about these, but not ask urgent questions!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13067	I would have a proposal on goodness, which everyone would have to convene: If a speaker speaks of the opposition: Noise levels right minus 10 percent when a government speaker speaks: Noise level left minus 10 percent. It's got to work. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Noise level self retention!]] The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13102	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Yesterday evening, the plenary session ended with the fact that the Freeman quoted a Greek fable poet to German poet Goethe and the ÖVP. I quote today from a very simple and easy-to-understand thing, namely from the Black-Peter game, and I will show you why cash patients and doctors in this system are mainly those who receive the Black Peter from the Federal Government. It'll be understandable. And if Mr. Pumberger in a "ZiB 3" discussion said that what the Federal Government's health policy brings to us were milestones in the health system and in the social field, I would say a little boldly: Several of these stones, and we have a mausoleum. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What irritates me in the current debate – I already lack a broad policy – is that everything that is discussed about health is only about the financial rail. Little is said about structures, it is threatened with system crash, health will no longer be able to afford, and so the frightened patients are forced into a total Austrian spa club, in which patients and the sick are the only number. You will not really dispute if you have a spark of honesty that the current rehabilitation measures, as far as they are debated in the public, will be put exclusively at the expense of the affected and the patients. What are restraints other than paying them and keeping the State and the cash registers the money – that can also be called self-retaining? What are partial health statuss, what are increased care fees, what are prescription fees and health certificate fees? – Think, you don’t need to think at all, that concerns only the sick who have to pay! I have shown you this once again, Mr Pumberger. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I'm making an actual correction anyway! That's where I'm saving the calls!]] Make an actual correction, even this may be wrong! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I have repeatedly explained to you that the income of the population, the educational level and the working and housing conditions have a higher influence on the use of the medical measures and that those who are disadvantaged in income, in education, in work and in housing often become sick and earlier and also live shorter than others. It's the ones you're trying to clean up the system at. I do not think that is insanely intelligent, and I do not think that is a milestone. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Very briefly to my previous speakers: Of course, it is right that structural measures can be implemented by creating entry thresholds by increasing or introducing ambulance charges. But I ask you: Do patients and those affected, so to speak, need the poorest of the poor – illness is not a fun thing, you will admit it to me – to clean up structures for you? Is it not possible to ensure a balance between permanent and settled areas through short-term investments in the established sector and thereby reduce the flow to hospitals and hospitals? - You don't seem to think so. No one is fighting for reasonable savings. You can believe me. But there. Health is not only a matter of a place of business, but ultimately of the entire government, would already be appropriate measures that take deeper action than such superficial things. They will admit that Parliament is about to represent a cross-section of the population. In this debate, however, I feel that on the side of the government groups there is a phalanx of financial or balance-sheet accountants, who now means they can account for social policy. That's not gonna be the way it's going to go. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Another thing: Fact is – I can't spare you to blame you, to have digressed the population – Austria is very much on the European average in terms of health expenditure. There's no mention of system crash. So far, self-retaining has amounted to 10 billion schilling, and private health costs are 30 percent strong and have increased by 70 percent over the last 15 years – or perhaps 12 years, forgive me little blurry. This is blasphemous more than the expenditure on public health. Now, if you are setting up accents that, in turn, burden the private sector and the private households, I will give you a very simple answer: We don't start the class struggle, but at least you open up the danger of a two-class medicine. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You can also promote health care privatisations in your program. They know that if a health care system is to be good and fair, it can never be profitable. I agree. What, then, is privatisation in the health sector? – These are areas that are profitable: Beauty surgery, other things, hunger cures, the dry Semmerl and the camomile tea for 10,000 s a day. This is called privatisation of profits for operators. And what remains of the public sector? – that medicine that is deficient, expensive and risky. So if you represent a system in which profits are privatized, but the risk is left to the public hand, tell me what your March or your fairy tale is or, if you want a Greek fable, perhaps the Greek fable of the slenderness of the state! I also wonder how two parties, who raise the economy on their shield and try to care for the little man by the way – though increasingly poor and more moderate – want to manage to reduce the cost of drugs. Here too, a question has been answered incorrectly: Generics and recipe fees have as much to do with each other as Sun and Moon – except that they are both minds if you want to. Generics are equally subject to 55 S prescription fee, because 55 S can be paid for each medicine – regardless of whether it costs 20 S or 500 S. Generics "Null-komma-Powidl" – if you allow this expression – will change it. A few brief comments on the health conference: In principle, it is not an evil idea – I admit – but what kind of words have fallen – not by the Secretary of State, but by his invited guests? – Let's make a basic insurance! – The basic care of the sick will retain the public sector, anything else that is more expensive, specific, more specific, more risky, the patient pays for himself in the future – not a two-class medicine, or am I mistaken? Risk profiles and risk-adapted premiums in cash insurance should be created. What does that mean? – The risk is poverty, the risk is lower education, and – what I have read recently; very hard quoted by bishops – "lack of faith delays healing". Do you want to sniff around who's a believer, who's a Catholic, who's not? – This one has an increased risk, so it has to pay higher premiums. So please consider what's going on! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: More church tax!]] I am opposed to giving the patients, the cash registers and the doctors to the Black Peter and to reducing the policy to what else you can leave indignant wage account holders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13192	Mr Pumberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. The facts to be corrected and the facts to be dealt with must be mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13216	Mr President. Mr. Dozent Grünewald claimed that the current measures of this Federal Government for the rehabilitation of health insurance and health care should be financed exclusively by those concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I listed them, the measures!]] I am doing the right thing by reading a letter from the Federal Government: ==References====External links== On April 1, 2000, a commission to the health insurance companies to implement a reorganisation contract with the following principles within the framework of self-management – then the principles you mentioned in part continue to follow; but I will save you the whole text –: The proposed savings measures shall result in the following sub-measures: Administrative area of health insurance: 1.5 billion schilling – no schilling at the patient's expense. Medicines: 2.5 billion schilling – no schilling at the patient's expense. Recipe fee and relief: 1 billion schilling – this is at the expense of the patient, I admit, as well as the treatment contribution in the hospital. Of a total of 6 billion schillings, which are saved, 4 billion are not to be financed by the patient. And that's the wrong one you claimed, that this one has to pay everything. [[Abg. Eder: You don't believe that!]] Two thirds come in through administrative measures and savings in the pharmaceutical sector, and this is a high performance of this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13268	Mr Dr. Stumm volvely spoke on another actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13293	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grünewald here claimed from the speaker's desk that government policy opened the way to the two-class medicine. Mr President, I should like to thank This claim is incorrect. [[Abg. Eder: That's right!]] Only then – only then! – if the financial risks of the individuals themselves...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13329	Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. This is the political debate again, in classic terms, whether the two-class medicine is or not. The next speaker is Mrs Prammer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13354	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you're sick, you'll have to pay heavily for yourself in the future. This has already been established several times in this House, and that is also the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Said!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The whole thing is in the sense of what the Federal Chancellor said 100 days ago in this House, namely: We need courage, and courage must hurt. – I can only say: How true, how true! For the sick, not only is the physical pain that comes when you are sick, but also the financial pain, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: There are already 10 billion schilling self-tained!]] Those who are sick will have to pay the most, and the massive strains on sick people are all you have come to mind. You don't save, you just burden, ladies and gentlemen! I am very surprised at some of the speeches made here in this debate – for example, by Mr Donabauer. I don't know, I'm vague in memory: He has some function in a health insurance fund – or am I wrong? – and I wonder where his concept was in December 1999 because he mentioned that Mr. Sallmutter obviously needed a concept at that time. [[Abg. He's a bunch of speakers!]] Where was his concept, or where is the concept of his health insurance fund today, since it is quite clear and clearly on the table that there is still 0.9 billion schilling, although a federal grant of 0.6 billion is granted? Ladies and gentlemen! If only it would be as simple as some Members of the Coalition would imagine and give of themselves! If it were just that easy! But we can ask these questions to you, to the government parties, many questions, including urgent questions – the answers remain to us, ladies and gentlemen! To Mr Pumberger: You are right if you find that we should answer our questions ourselves. – Yes, I really believe that the opposition should answer its own questions – no answer comes from you. What comes from you – which has again been clearly demonstrated in the speech by Mr Pumberger – is distraction, it is spoken of by something quite different, and secondly there is a personal differentiation. Something else is not said at this speaker's desk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – That’s the answer! That is the answer to questions we ask you as government parties. Mr. State Secretary Waneck! There too the red thread, the guide, passes through the Federal Government, as well as through the entire coalition. [[Abg. Edellinger: The blue thread!]] – The black and blue thread: Lip confessions versus concrete measures. First of all, one turns around and gives lip confessions – wonderfully beautiful lyrics, beautiful sentences, whether this is in health policy, social policy, women's policy, family policy – and then if concrete measures are to come, then they are missing. And when concrete measures come, they are directed against the weaker, against the so-called little people you keep addressing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] Mr. State Secretary Waneck! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: 30 years of beautiful words from the SPÖ!]] They talked about the fact that no restraint is introduced to established doctors. There too I think: How would you like to answer all the questions that arise, for example, with regard to urban/country differences? What about the specialists in the country where the ambulances are still urgently needed? [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: 30 years you missed this! You missed this for 30 years!]] It makes no sense to have every individual specialist in every small community, because there the quality and the technical equipment cannot be available, especially if you have a sense of cost, ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, the ambulances are essential and important, and for this reason it is also clear that ambulances are the appropriate assistance in the case of illness for many people. Just a short while to pay for the sick: For me, it is really white, incredible cynicism, which is expressed here, when suddenly those people who have no life expectancy, so to speak, that death is already written in the face, are to be paid the sickness allowance indefinitely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Who evaluates that? Which doctor actually wants to ask the ethical question to decide: Yes, sickness benefit no – beyond 52 weeks? You have not asked yourself all these questions and have not answered them either, ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to conclude by saying: I have read a lot of interviews of various representatives of the government in recent days and weeks. Do you know what I noticed? – Whenever it becomes concrete, whenever concrete answers are needed, for example on health and disease issues, it is said: We need expert committees, working groups, some of them are still in use. Ladies and gentlemen! Consider first, and then take measures, because that would be in the interest of the people of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13494	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13515	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been a hospital doctor for over 20 years, and for five years I have been a health politician here in this House. For years, in numerous debates, questions and urgent requests, we have been looking at the threat of the infinancing of this health system. Well, after the change of government, you'll suddenly be surprised to ask us the question – 79 questions! – which need to be rehabilitated. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Do you intend not to rule?]] I ask you, Madam President: Is it decades of ignorance of the situation that we are now in this position, or is it a wanted economy for the citizen? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Or maybe it's just a political game of yours: First we were in the government – then you owe everything – but now we are the good ones, and the others are the evil ones. That is cynical, that is contemptuous, not what we have prescribed socially balanced in the government programme. Our health system needs structural changes and not constant drop-by-step loads, which continue to cause billions of deficits to the cash registers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Now I'm really wondering: Were we in the government or you, and have we watched unspoiled how the current social security system has continued to slid into the red figures? [[Abg. May. Prammer: Mrs Povysil! You have to work now!]] Were you in government at that time? – It was them; I'm sure you remember. [[Abg. May. Prammer: That means you don't want to work now?- Oh, my God!]] For five weeks, a working group has been meeting in the Ministry of Health under the leadership of Mr. State Secretary Waneck, and for five weeks there has been nothing but permanent blockades regarding the social security system: no disclosure of reserves, continued payments in hospitals, inadequate preparation of deficit forecasts, rejection of a discussion on the extension of the ambulatories – blockade, blockade, blockade! And who is responsible for that? – You from the SPÖ and not us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] Yes, it's true that the Austrian world champions are in the Im-Spital-Liegen, but it's not cynical when you say that, but it's just true, and you should have seen that for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Why is that true, Mrs Bures? – I didn’t know that you, Mrs Bures, have so much competence in health care. But then you should have asked yourself why. It is because the structures are missing in the settled area and because the cash registers are blocking: no contracts for group practices, although we have been calling for them for decades! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The hospital is the last and the most qualified member in the treatment chain. Hospital ambulances are necessary for emergencies and special treatments. The sniff, the cold disease, as well as all other diseases in which patients are to remain mobile belong to outpatient treatment, are treated by the established physician. Apart from that, it is especially for old people and children – but to see that, you need an understanding of the health system in itself – the better, the longer they are treated outpatiently and not tore them out of their homes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The cost factor is also significant: Over 2 000 S costs a patient in the ambulance, 500 S to 700 S in the established doctor. In addition to the right structural measure, the cost factor is also very crucial. We nurses are massively overburdened with the ambulances. Do you know what this is leading to? – The lack of structural measures in my department means that I currently have only one training assistant, but not a specialist, and only because of the fact that structural changes in this sector have not been carried out for years. I can tell you that from my daily practice. I do not know how long I can still stand here in Parliament and talk about it because my department is in the meantime unconcerned. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. May. Prammer.]] Therefore, the introduction of an ambulance fee of 150 S is a really welcome measure for controlling patient flows: away from the hospitals – if not necessarily necessary – to an outpatient care. The cash registers finally have to think on themselves and on what they actually are: They are insurance service providers and obliged to solve their problems themselves! There are 4 billion schillings of savings – that has already been mentioned – in the health insurance system alone without burden on patients. This would finally put in place important structural measures. The power apparatus, however, resists, with unwillingness to resist self-criticism, system criticism and self-analysis. Only when these measures finally come to fruition – and we will take care of them! – we can fulfil what is set out in our government programme as a principle: basically equal access to all medical services according to defined quality standards without rationalization!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13634	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13656	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Three years ago, Minister Hostasch told us that the health care system had been rehabilitated. But now we are facing a massive problem again. 30 years of SPÖ health policy should not lead to the need to talk about a massive emergency programme every three years. It is well known that denial causes even greater problems. And what surprised me most was that at the beginning of December, Viktor Klima said: Yes, there are problems, there is a lack of 2.5 billion schilling, but there must be no more money, the health certificate fee should be abolished, and at the same time there should be more services! – That would be the square of the circle and is a Den-Leuten sand-in-the-eye scatter. No human doubt that we have a positive problem. We just have the problem of people getting older and that medicine is hugely powerful. We have to acknowledge that. But on the one hand, to say that should not cost anything, and on the other hand to guarantee any performance, that just can't be done! It's a lot of hypocrisy when you say: The drug charges rise so strongly, from 46 S to 55 S. In Germany, the drug fee is on average 70 p. I haven't heard you complained about it with your model Schröder. Or: Self-retaining in the ambulance. If you are visiting the ambulance at Wilhelminenspital, you will need about a morning until you have done everything, and you will pay more parking fees at the whole hospital area than the ambulance fee is. As far as the "belief question" of self retention is concerned, they should not burden the patient in the sense that performance is prevented. That would be completely absurd and unfair in my opinion. The railways, the officials have fought for them to remain in their system in which they can pay this "evil" restraint. [[Abg. Conspicuous: But you have other achievements!]] If they don't have any money, Mr President, they can't afford anything either. Then it would have to be that they can not give the patient some benefits, such as tooth crowns, orthodontics, pain therapy, for example, to name just a few examples. Did you know that 500 000 Austrians cannot receive pain therapy at health insurance costs at all? As far as the famous example of psychotherapy is concerned, a contract has been concluded for ten years. A refund of 300 S is currently being granted. The average duration of therapy costs 1,000 p. According to Adam Ries, this results in a self-retaining of 70 percent or 700 S. I have not heard a great cry about this, and there is enough mental illness that would like to have the opportunity to use therapy for nothing or at least with minimal self-sufficiency. I don't want to make any child-moving here. We have average health costs, which account for 8 per cent of gross domestic product, and are therefore in the top ten among the countries of the Western world. For example, Germany spends 10 percent, which is about 60 billion more. Nor should the benefits of health insurance schemes be small-scaled here, nor the benefits of social democracy. But it is about the fact that we have unfortunately taken over a massive problem, and nobody – including me – has known that 5.7 billion schilling will be missing and 9 billion schilling will be missing next year. As far as some of the proposals for solutions are concerned, Mr Grünewald, who says that he can simply put 10 billion schilling on the fast side by moving inside, i.e. from the hospital, outside, please, naïve. It doesn't work! Mr Köck's proposal – thank God he does not sit in Parliament – which is based on the view that 50 percent of the benefits are unnecessary, I believe every basis is missing. But I do not want the English health care of Mr Blair, in which 1.3 million people are on the waiting list – Blair is not rehabilitating anything at all! – and patients with a healing chance of less than 5 percent are not at all affected. [[Abg. Ritsmer: Blair... renovate!]] I also do not want the health system of Germany, where brutally covered and simply rationed, where doctors are threatened with regress payments when they prescribe patients. I was in Germany, and there were doctors who told me: We don't prescribe the new drugs like "Zyprexa" for schizophrenia at all, because we won't pay them by our fee! – This is what green politics in Germany looks like, Mr Oellinger, but you can then comment on it. [[Call the SPÖ: How was that before?]] If the cost of drugs increases by 3 billion schilling a year, then we have to think about something. But this must not be a cover, but it must be reasonably saved. I like this economic module very much. We must not get to rationalize. My own mother didn't get her medication 20 years ago in breast cancer, indicating it's too expensive. You can take me as a doctor who is in Meidling, where the rich people do not live, ordain: We don't want two-class medicine! We also want to maintain this consensus in this House, including under another government. It is about solidarity between boys and the old, between the healthy and the sick. This should never be forgotten, and we should not do so because of these 2 billion people who are now being placed in self-preservation – 2 billion, Mr President, of 140 billion schilling paid in total on health insurance contributions – as if this were the great world, because we all know – we, you and I – that there should and must be socially justified exceptions here. For example, who has prevented you from accepting this problem? For eleven years I have been running this indebted-independent liability regime! Is that really a miracle? Do you really have to say that it's a problem to spend 10 s or more to compensate someone who suffers a damage just because you're looking at an ideological point of view, which means it's not allowed to be? – There’s 10 s better, and we’re starting a topic with it and helping those who – tragically tragically – suffer a damage to all the successes that medicine achieves. Obviously, with my rather positive assessment, I am not alone: Doctoral Chamber President Pjeta said that the reform was a courageous step. President Routil of the Styria has said that the government programme does not have to look for good and new proposals with the magnifying glass. I believe that our health policy should not be determined by the wayside and by the denial of problems or of pseudo-solutions. But we should not be afraid of the patient, as Pumberger said, but I think we should gradually come to an optimal system for everyone. We're supposed to be scared. No one should be afraid, as in America, that if he's poor, he's on the street.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13719	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13740	Mr President. High house! Mr. State Secretary! I have to start with a compliment to you, which may be unusual: It is a pleasure to note, Mr State Secretary, that you have used an objective argument that you have tried to deal with the problem objectively, which unfortunately does not apply to all members of the Liberal Group, especially the first speaker, Mr Pumberger. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Maybe I learned from the oillinger?]] With terms like "Made im Speck", Mr. Pumberger, one might be making a mood, an angry mood, but one does not necessarily do what you, Mr. Rasinger, asked: [[Abg. May. Hartinger: What are you feeling for, Mr. Colleague?]] To fear and to deal with health policy in a matter of fact. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Let's stay there first! In Austria, we have one – I have listened very attentively – health system with not so bad performance, but also with certain deficits. They're not small! They should also be named, Mr Rasinger. We have – you yourself mentioned the example – quite something like hidden rationalization in our health system. The points at which this hidden rationalization takes place should be named. They can be found right along these social boundaries, which Mr Greenewald has already described. These are the hidden rationalization potentials that become effective in this health system. I don't know if your mother is a rich or a poor woman, whether she can express herself verbally or not, but these are the points that people in the health system have already made, regardless of whether it was managed by black and blue, red and black or just red. – This is a point: We have hidden rationalization, and we should name it. I have now mentioned to you a point of this hidden rationalization in the health system. The second thing we should seriously discuss: It has been a few times about the "contract of statutory health insurance". But let's talk about it, too. What does this contract of statutory health insurance mean? We have a social health insurance – this term has not yet fallen; perhaps we do not want to call it – whose principle is that within the insured persons a compensation is created between the few earners and the attendants and, secondly – and that is the highest principle of this social health insurance – that if the risk arises, there is no burden on the sick. Now I'm trying to draw your attention to the question: Does this system function according to these principles? Is it really true that in the field of Austrian social health insurance, the service providers, in contrast to the less deserving, provide adequate contributions? – You know, we have a maximum contribution limit. The proposal made by the Secretary of State, namely the increase in the maximum contribution base, would be more socially just than what you have proposed – to name it: This is in line with the principle of social health insurance. The second point: In this system of social health insurance, do we have a balance between health care and the sick? – Now can They say: Perhaps the debate is overturned. You can also say: Perhaps this is also a matter of past shortcomings. – You’re even perfectly right with that. We do not hold the debate on self retention for the first time. We have led them along two savings packages, and I can remember that at that time the Members of Parliament, or some Members, of the Freedom Party, just as we have put Green arguments against self-retaining. Now the representatives of the Freedom Party are acting and taking on the arguments for self-preservation. I only draw attention to this – and that was the meaning and purpose of the debate: In the context of social health insurance, to provide for a self-retainer that cannot regulate in the right direction, and you do not want to do so, which means that it follows a financing motive. The question then arises whether a self-retainer – and there are good examples, for example, in the medications a self-retainer of 55 s or a self-retainer in the area of the ambulances – does not clearly impose more burden on those who cannot afford to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the line of argument that was to be brought about and that is also true. Of course: This applies to any retention that does not have the desired or non-regulatory effect, but is set only for financial reasons. This is obviously also the case in the case of the self-retaining that you have joined in the field of prescription fees. The example of the generics has already been mentioned, where it is not differentiated between generics and the original drugs, and therefore there is no motive at all to be prescribed a generic, because it is as expensive as the other, the original drug as the drug itself. So if there is no such regulatory effect, then self retention is only for financial reasons. But it's clear: Self retention has a regressive effect. It burdenes those with low incomes much more strongly than those with higher incomes, which have already been better placed in the contributions. There is a double discharge in the health system, in the social security system, in the health insurance system for people with higher incomes. A double discharge – you can imagine that! That is reason enough to lead the debate very serious and clean. But since the example that Mr Pumberger has brought me, which, if it were true, would actually be a reason for criticism, that Vranitzky has been curated somewhere in Germany, nothing! This is not a contribution to the rehabilitation of health insurance schemes, even if Mr Vranckky's 500 000 s in this case would be scandalous. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us continue to talk about some of what has been introduced by you in terms. There has been the term "cost explosion" in the health debate for ten years: Always "exploit" the costs. Don't you know, Mr. Rasinger – you have a basic science education – that nothing can explode for ten years? It's not physically possible. One and the same thing can't explode for ten years without a break. It can explode once. Now the question arises whether we are describing this situation now, because we have achieved a deficit, or whether some ten years can explode! – But you say: We have ongoing "cost explosions" in the field of the health system. Ladies and gentlemen! Where's something exploding? – We have the same phenomenon in all developed industrialized countries with good health systems, which is also described by you. Of course, this is the way in the drug sector: The medications are getting more expensive. The companies, of course, want to cover maximum costs in the development of their new medications and profit from the prices they achieve. That's one of the points: Medicines are getting better, too. It is the question whether we can and want to afford this. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Exactly! That's the question!]] If we can and want to do this – yes – then we have to make a solidarity contribution, Mr Leiner, in order to make this system financial for all. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: That's the way it is!]] That's the question! I have now described to you in a five-minute presentation that this system is precisely because it relieves service providers in the area of maximum contributions, because it over the self retention once again the small earners and [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: D’accord!]] It is a matter of increasing the burden of earnings, which is no longer a matter of solidarity seeking to compensate for them. At this point, the question must be brought back to the beginning: What was said in your Coalition Agreement, of which we thank God now have gone a bit through the course of the debate: that contributions of up to 20 percent must be cancelled by the authorization of the health insurance companies for medical benefits!Unknown term type: "%s".? Thank God you have gone away from it, but still we are not where a solidarity and social health insurance system should go. Thank God you have assumed otherwise we would have had the next debate, which I know some of them also, I suppose, do not want to have in the field of the government parties, but some very well. More health care market, even more market in the social security sector, the creation and demolition of compulsory insurance in favour of an insurance obligation in which the various social security schemes compete against each other. That was the principle set out in the Coalition Agreement. You have not yet achieved this in the course of the debate, thank God. I hope that it will not succeed in the next few years, because the Austrian population, as well as the Greens, is much to maintain and improve a solidar and social health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13847	After the end of the session, I have to say to Mr Ollinger that in astronomy explosions can last even millions and billions of years – but only by the way. Mrs Reitsamer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13871	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Health insurance recovery on the back of sick People! – The fact that we have put this question today was because we do not get scared, but perhaps to scatter fears when we get corresponding answers. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger]] The Secretary of State said in a press release that the Federal Government had responded quickly. It's just, you know, In what direction did she react? – If you raise the fee contribution and at the same time say that there is no connection with the indebtedness of patient insurance, I ask you, Mr State Secretary, whether if something becomes more expensive and something is introduced at the same time, since not everyone sees a connection. – This cannot be denied. My colleague, Dr. Pittermann, has already spoken about medical insurance. Perhaps you should really consider structuring this differently here. It is not possible for insurance companies to obtain a very provocative basket money. I can't understand. The example of road transport also speaks volumes. Under Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch, a working group was set up which was very positive with the patient lawyers of the countries and considered a fund solution instead of the insurance solution. There was also a common demand catalogue, but also a uniform and clear finding that patients are not eligible for funding in connection with this problem. When it comes to the payment of new benefits, Mr State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I am already taking from this general health insurance package that there may be such a possibility for other new benefits to be introduced. You didn't do this today. I'm glad about it, and we're going to be very careful that this doesn't happen. It cannot be that one patient is treated according to the previous medical findings and the advanced medicine and new findings only benefit those who can pay. [[Abg. Gaugg: Just like now!]] Mrs Povysil has already said that she has for many years warned how difficult the health insurance situation would be. I remember: 1997/98 the health insurances have written black numbers, and your colleague Dr. Pumberger immediately requested repayments. - That was one. It is not to be remembered that daily benefits of 330 million schilling are provided by social health insurance. That's nothing, ladies and gentlemen. I'll come back to the point that you might be able to rehabilitate health insurance very differently. You increase the recipe fee by almost a quarter. – We also raised them at the time, but there had been no great increase there for a long time. Now you're gonna throw that in front of us, and you're going to do the same thing again. If you make self-medications more possible, I do not want to know the medical consequences. The cash register doesn't pay for it, so it's a 100 percent self retention. The large buyer discount for the cash registers also fails, that is, the drug becomes even more expensive in itself. I don't know where you're going to take that, as you say, it wouldn't matter. With regard to the potential for risk to patients, it is to be said that where self-medication is more common, it also increases drug abuse with very expensive consequences for health care as a whole and also for the individual patient. [[Call to the liberals: That's not true!]] But if you place even more emphasis on quality in this area, then there can be no such savings. They have said that the chip card should be introduced more quickly. In this case, the health certificate fee would have to be dropped. Or are you thinking about alternatives? And then you pay back the higher health insurance contributions to the pensioners? What is planned in this regard? On the question of ambulance charges: Family members and pensioners were exempt from the health certificate fee because of the higher contributions. How is this supposed to be in the ambulances now? – It is said again and again that there will be no restraint in the settled area. I would rather wait there, because in the settled area it will now stand. I have heard with amazement that Mr Pumberger says that the cost of the settled area is about 30 to 40 percent of the ambulances. When you consider what is done in ambulances for all-encompassing services, that seems a bit high to you. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is very important to me. With regard to health insurance restructuring, you have the residue of contributions to the companies – that is almost 9.9 billion schilling! - not addressed. These increased from 4,051 billion schilling in 1990 to nearly 9.9 billion schilling in 1999. If you would remove this sum if that were required, there would be no deficit at least this year. But what makes me even more concerned – this is a reply from the Federal Minister Sickl – is the fact that staff contributions from 1990 amount to 1.7 billion schilling and from 1999 to the amount of 4.2 billion schilling are included. I ask you: What does one say to someone who collects funds for forwarding and then does not pass them on? - I'll leave that to your imagination. If this is the case, then you could very well save yourself this whole package of measures, this package of horrors.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13928	Next speaker is Mrs Hartinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13949	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a health politician, it is really shocking to me how interesting and how important the answers are in the debate for the Social Democrats, because there is not even a third of the SPÖ MEPs here in the room, and a few are almost asleep. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Mr Schieder went out on your speech, so interesting for your colleagues. This is very significant, I have to say – really! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: A highly intelligent point! Talk to your people!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You pasted: Sickness makes you poor! I say to you, Mrs Colleague: You have made Austria sick by your social and health policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the last 30 years of your – your ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ! – Have inactivity They are allowed to wait for long periods of time in specialists, in important investigations, in the event of vital operations. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Take a step in front of this house and take a look at the rural area in an ordination! After all, you will finally understand what socialist health policy means: long waiting times plague citizens, our patients are sent from one specialist to another, provided there is even a specialist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Mr President, I should like to thank You don't know what's happening outside in practice! [[Abg. You have no idea!]] I'm sure I have an idea! I know what's happening outside! I ask you: How can it be possible for thousands of citizens in a district to have signatures so that they can have a second child specialist that is urgently needed for their district? The citizens are not entitled otherwise because the health insurance scheme does not provide a second pediatrician in their district. Only after long... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's the doctor's chamber!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Do you know the district of Deutschlandsberg, Mr. Colleague? [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Then please don't talk about things you don't know! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is only after a long delay that the Styrian local health fund – your comrades – is stopped for one year! – patient law in the district... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's the doctor's chamber, please!]] Mrs Colleague, who approves the cash registers? The doctor's room alone? Or does the local health insurance fund have one more word to speak? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction of the Greens) You are not informed!]] In any event, based on our initiative, it has been possible to get a second specialist in pediatrics in the district of Deutschlandsberg. The regress of your socialist comrades from the local health fund was then that I was threatened in my professional existence. This was the answer to the fact that a second pediatrician had to be established there. But this is not the only thing I would like to criticize. – Mr. Comrade Sallmutter of the famous, well-known main association – in addition to being noted: the gestuous crowning of your party-political occupation – allowed the Austrian health care system not even to introduce the quality standards or to be reviewed by the social security system. I ask you: How else can you explain that in Austria, for example, cheap products from the East were used for healing aid? But somehow I don't wonder, you hang out in Moscow's past times explains a lot! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea! That's country!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Her comrade Sallmutter, Mrs. Colleague, sees as in the Federal State of Styria, by a wildly grown local health care provider and his director the contracts with the established... [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Mr President, I should like to thank You know about the Styria? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But yes, sure!]] The contracts with the established doctors were terminated, the contracts with the Red Cross were terminated, the contracts with all laboratories were terminated – without obvious reason, exclusively to insure the population. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs Colleagues! Do you know what you're talking about? You have no idea!]] I make you and your comrades responsible for it when, through this state of affairs in Styria – Mrs. Colleague, you are also Steirrin! – something also happens to one patient! Then I'll make you responsible! [[Abg. Silhavy: unlikely!]] They are entitled to discredit this government in all matters. Through such disdainful actions, you and your caregivers want to create a gap between the government and the Austrian population. This procedure may have been successful with foreign countries for some time, but with us, our compatriots, the Austrians and Austrians, you won't do this! [[Abg. Oillinger: A sentence is missing on the sanctions! That's still missing! That would be the crowning of your speech! Please have a sentence on the sanctions! That's what we need now!]] You will have to note that your policy, the inactivity of a Mrs Hostasch, has made the Austrian social security system a health-political waste field. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] You have no responsibility, Mrs Colleague! Do you know how difficult it is to reform the health system in this country after 30 years of socialism and the socialist desire for a two-class medicine? You know that? [[Abg. Schwemlein: Which secretary has written this speech to you?]] I have full confidence in our Minister of State and our Secretary of State. You now have the dubious pleasure of putting on rubber boots to eliminate the party policy felt in social security. Please note that there will be no increases in contributions in Austria! But do you know what there will be? – A significant improvement in the performance for our patients, the establishment of clear patient rights – you didn’t do that for 30 years! – and the liberation of the patient from the inflated party propaganda in social security. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, with us the patient is at the heart of the patient – and not the party-political mail chess in health care!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14211	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14232	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! To the polemic statements that have been made more often today, who is sick, I would like to reply: Health must also be worth something to us, and that is what it is to us! [[Abg. Oil: Who? The doctors?]] Everyone, all of us! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] What do we want to achieve with the reforms at all? – We want to achieve with the same quality that medical treatment is cheaper and takes place where the patient is closest. However, we also need to cause a certain cost awareness to develop with the patient and with the doctors. For decades, especially your policy has given people a prelude to the fact that the state stands up for medical treatment, even for everything. Who's the state? The taxpayer! And anyone who deserves it – the doctors, the pharmaceutical industry, the health profession – is definitely a suspect element for you. Their socialist models have failed in the past, one has to say, and we are now trying to repair these failed models and make them financially available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, this is the task of the ÖVP!]] I would now like to replicate some of the comments made in the urgent question and ask you: What is in fact in social terms about enabling people to carry out more self-medication on their own and with the advice of the pharmacist? People often have to wait a long time with the doctor and use their working time to travel long distances. The European trend is to call for the powerful consumer, especially in the area of drugs. Only more than 50 percent of drugs within the EU are subject to prescription, and in Austria it is 82 percent. So that's where we need to catch up. Now I come to the subject of self-maintenance and hospitals. I ask you: Is it just and reasonable, then, if we ask the doctors to recover or demand a restraint, and not in the hospital? Why, then, is it unfair or what is unsocial if I allow the poor and chronically ill to use this regulation without restraint? [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Povysil.]] With one you are right in your inquiry: I'm sure there's no one who likes to go to a hospital. But the Social Democratic Party has missed it – and also its social security officials – that... [[Abg. Oillingers: Yours were there too!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Very few!]] [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I'm sure not! We've always operated it, but your officials have for decades missed the fact that day clinics were set up that group practices were possible. It has really been prevented from doing so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They say it's a two-class medicine. – I am convinced that there has been this so far! We're trying to get rid of them now! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Where was this two-class medicine? – If there was a doctor in the cities for 330 people and only a doctor in the country for 850 people, was that not a two-class medicine? We are now trying to eliminate this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. What are you doing?]] This is the result of decades of socialist health policy, where there was everything for the central hospitals, but little for the people outside. For example, you complain in your urgent request that 20 percent of psychotherapists are self-retained. – That is not true because there are no contracts at all. But you haven't made any contracts for ten years! It was you who prevented that! I would now like to draw attention to a study by economicsmen, who supported the following results in Germany in March of this year: that within 15 years in health care, no stone will remain on the other side. Almost a quarter of the hospitals have to be locked up, they are privatized. The costs currently incurred for health care in Germany will rise to 1.9 trillion D-Mark. And solidarity social health insurance will no longer be eligible for funding. One will only be able to provide finance for reduced basic health care. – This is the content of the results of this study. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't wish for that. I don't think we should let it get that far. Therefore, we must not put the head in the sand, but must now act accordingly. We now have to put in place the appropriate structural measures so that this scenario does not occur. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must not make people believe that the maintenance of their health costs nothing. We are all convinced that, of course, we have to make much more provision than before and invest in healthy lifestyles as the most cost-effective, humane and best measure of health care. I don't like to say my own clientele, the medical profession, either: Doctors still have much more to do as a service provider. Ordination hours from 8 am to 12 pm and no holiday and weekend services yet, that will certainly not be possible anymore. These things should be considered and redesigned. Your urgent request will also address the indebtedness of patient insurance and the collection of 10 S per hospital patient. I also have a different opinion. – The Secretary of State is not here. [[Abg. Silhavy: (showing on the left side of the government bank) Oh yes, he's chatting there!]] I don't think the fund solution is the ideal way. In my opinion, an insurance solution would certainly be better suited, because the fund solution forces the patient to go as a beggar or as a bitter and not knowing that he has a right to what should be done to him. This is my opinion. I would also like to make a brief comment on the obligation and failure of Mr Sallmutter, for it is clear that he has neglected a main task which is laid down by law, namely, according to § 31 of the General Social Security Act, in which it is reasonable to ensure the continuous monitoring of the development of social security in its relations with the economy and the preparation of concrete proposals or the implementation of measures to maintain the continuing performance of social security without overburdening the economy – a point which Salmutter obviously did not fulfil. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14389	The next speaker was Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14410	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a very own story, Mr. State Secretary Waneck, when you speak of the fact that your policy or health policy in Austria is socially balanced and that it all meets the same. Mr State Secretary! I don't know if you know people who have a very low income. In this case, 1 000 s is different from you or others who are sitting here in Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But once again this shows quite clearly that you have actually left the ground of reality, the contact with the citizens, the access to the people, to the population for a long time now, but are living in your distant world, because you no longer know what is happening outside of society and under what conditions people have to live there. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: You can blame the Greens!]] I would like to present this on the basis of a few examples. For example, the Secretary of State has said that there will be savings in the aid and in the aid, while ensuring adequate social security. I didn't come with you, and I wish you could explain to me what you mean. I ask you: Do you seriously believe that the question of whether a person needs a remedy or a remedy is a question of social security? That is a question of disability, illness or non-inhibition and health! How can you explain this in this direction? Faith Do you really think anyone from Jux and Tollery is buying a wheelchair around 40,000 s, just so he can practice how he is driving across the sidewalk? I hope there's no one in here who really believes that. I don't hope anyone's inside here, who believes that someone who's hearing impaired or hard to listen to, for cosmetic reasons, or for sense of beauty, has a hearing aid in his ears. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] People who have a hearing aid need it very easily. I have to tell you about the amount of 30 000, 40,000 S – that's about the price for a hearing aid – I could buy myself very nice earrings, but I wouldn't hear anything with them. Mr State Secretary! You just lost the relation to reality. Aids and reliefs should not be seen from the point of view of social security, but reliefs and aids are simply necessary. I want to know if you know a doctor who would have prescribed someone a remedy or a cure that the person does not need. If you call this doctor or group of doctors, we will do much easier in this discussion! Who has been given a wheelchair as a gift for private exits, although he does not need it? Tell me who these doctors are who are supposed to prescribe this. I also wonder if it is not easier to move around the world on roller shoes than in a wheelchair prescribed by the doctor, which is basically not necessary. All you have said on this issue is white cynicism. This is a way of dealing with people who have not yet taken place in this Parliament. This is the new quality. Mr State Secretary! If you say people should go more to the house doctor than to the ambulance, I ask you – and that will be You probably know from your practice –: Who's going to the doctor? You're not going to the doctor because you're a fad, but mostly because you're sick. Especially older people and disabled people are, to a large extent, also limited in their freedom of movement. Mr State Secretary! They also know that most domestic doctors live on the floor and usually also have their ordination there. Now say You're telling me: Should the doctor make a remote diagnosis from the window with me or other people who cannot handle the steps? I can't go there. So in many cases I am forced to roll into the ambulance, because ambulances are usually accessible to the disabled. You must now explain to me where you see the social balance when people are forced to go in ambulances due to their mobility disability. What do you say? You're doing this to people now? Maybe you can answer that. At that time, when the Medical Law was being amended, I submitted a request concerning the creation of barrier-free access to medical practice. I am bringing this request back to you today. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr State Secretary! Only then can we discuss whether this cost contribution would be worth a discussion in the most varied form – and I am against this cost contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14472	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your speaking time is exhausted. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14487	They're doing it. Her two-class medicine is fleeting and whining on at the expense of those you supposedly represent, at the expense of the little man, the little woman. But it's not about you for a long time. That's what the people have heard for weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14517	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades has been sufficiently supported and is therefore under discussion. The next item is the speech by Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14541	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The interest of the contributors of the urgent question has become increasingly "greater" in the course of the discussion, in part no social-democratic MP has found himself in the hall at all. [[Abg. Sweamlein: I looked at the speaker list!]] It seems that the SPÖ itself considers this urgent request to be a failure. In her statement, Mr Haidlmayr raised several accusations concerning access to ambulatories and medical practices for the disabled. You cannot necessarily address such accusations to the Secretary of State, who has been responsible for them for three months, but it is outrageous from the past. Their calls also make them look deep. Intervocations from your There are always cases when you have not achieved something because your social partners have prevented it from happening. Now I'm wondering, The highly praised social partnership in Austria cannot be blamed on the fact that something does not work? If today patients still have to wait for medical appointments for weeks and months, then I must say that was your failure, your failure in the system of your pledged social partnership. If Mr Haidlmayr here thinks that improvements are necessary, I have to say: Of course. But we wouldn't have to discuss this, not only would you have left behind a sick checkout, a financially disastrous health insurance scheme, but you would have even occupied positions of local health care companies with sickly retired mayors. This is really strange: The health insurance companies are not only financially ill, they have also been used to reform and improve health care in Austria. In recent years, they have not taken a step towards using modern technical tools in the social security sector. Everyone has built up their own small computer line. This seems to me like when companies still worked with smoke signs in the age of e-mails and Internet connections. This too is disappointing, I would like to stress. A statement on the urgent request you made today, which was so urgent for you. Ask 120 questions, but don't listen to a single answer – that's a sad record. Mr Reitsamer has here asked questions or raised allegations which had been dealt with in detail by the Secretary of State in the reply to the question. Mrs Reitsamer, you will be able to read it in the minutes. Mrs Reitsamer! They said the fears should be scattered. With your contributions, you and your colleagues from Social Democracy have really achieved that all fears are scattered before you ever want to be taken seriously again in the health and health policy in Austria. That was your contribution to this discussion today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you read only the texting of your application where you speak of "Abkassierkoalition" and the like more, then this is the best proof. Where were your admonishing words when it came to the fact that the railways, the officials and the like of course have more to pay for a restraint? It is obvious that the railways have been paying a restraint for many years, and Mr. Edler knows that, with the exception of himself, they have a modest income. Where was there a cry on the part of social democracy at that time? Here, a much weaker form, a more sensible form, is considered. Now you're going through the country and talking all over Austria sick. But this has become a system. You haven't been in the government since you've been offended. Sometimes long-term insult makes you sick. I suppose that if you get sick out of insult, you should bear the costs yourself and not act like the former Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, who was able to recover the travel costs in the amount of half a million schillings from the local health insurance fund. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Her idea of social justice is reflected in the occupation of positions, whether the hall mother is whether the other is. These people are well-known for having a highly qualified education in the health sector before they have an obmann function somewhere in the local health fund. But there is a long period of polemization, at all levels, whether this is the Chamber of Labour, whether that is the union, whether the Social Democrats are at the federal level, at the national level, to those institutions that still give you the ÖVP into the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website This is a conglomerate or a configuration that actually no longer needs, because newly entering railers are subject to the ASVG – and finished. No, you create your own insurance institution of the Austrian Railways, where you then use the invoices – it's a name-named bill, it's a question of data protection that would have to be clarified, because you always put such great value on it – to do so again with polemics against the government. [[The speaker shall present such a statement.]] If we talk about saving, I would propose to this government and also to Parliament to put an end to this dissatisfaction that the Austrian Railways' insurance institution remains an independent institution. It belongs to the social security of employees. So this question would be dealt with. This would save us a lot of money in the administration. Then, at last, this polemization, this unqualified polemization, which has ultimately been left out of your health policy in recent months, would stop.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14597	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14619	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! At the end of the debate on this urgent question, I think it is necessary to make some comments from the Social Democratic side. Mr Gaugg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Gaugg on his speech. In the morning we experienced how he put the railways up as social blackmailers, now they are the poor who pay self-holds. Your speech, Mr Gaugg, has directed itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They criticise the fact that my group, with the Social Democrats, has no interest in this discussion. I'm telling you, your arguments need air. Therefore, if you want to stay healthy, you can't always stay in the hall. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Hartinger, also from the Liberal Group, criticised the fact that there should be a wild caretaker of the local health fund in Styria, who is threatening the patients. It's about – I mean, it's important to find out – that he encouraged the doctor's contracts to be terminated. I think it is legitimate to cancel contracts that have been concluded, especially if the termination is permitted. If you criticize this, I have to say that your contribution in this debate was important, because he has clearly shown that for you the interests of the doctors are in the foreground and not that of the patients. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is only more poor!]] The discussions between the government parties and the replies of the State Secretary for Health of the Free People have confirmed: First: In future, sick people will be more asked to check out. Secondly, For the economy there is a contribution reduction, i.e. a reduction in the health insurance contribution by 0.3 percent, so it will be easier in the future. The balance of financing between the economy and the workforce is being changed to the detriment of workers and to the benefit of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! These measures make people afraid, not us. I guarantee you that we will point out that to a much greater extent than today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the first great wave of stress that hits especially the little ones and the sick in our country. I think it's clear once again. This is the social conscience of the coalition parties. I wonder, Where is the social conscience of those in the People's Party who do not speak here, such as that of Mr Feurstein, whom I have always meant that he is equipped with social conscience? [[Abg. Wattaul: Where have you been for the last 30 years, at the Socialist Party?]] Where's the answer here? - She's nowhere. I can say again...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14684	Mr deputies, the speaking time is exhausted. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14700	Thank you, Mr President. – We Social Democrats will do everything possible to inform people accordingly about your policy, about your non-social and non-democratic policies, i.e. your non-social policies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14730	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the creation of accessible access to medical practice. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on the reply to the question 452/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14769	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology with the 452/AB order number. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mrs Lichtenberger as an applicant for the request to open the debate. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14804	Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you to the Minister for the truly comprehensive answer to the question, for the really comprehensive presentation of requests to the transport budget, for the really huge list of transport projects that have been listed, which have thus been presented in their width and which essentially, as is clearly clear in the answer itself, are going back to the wishes of the federal states. Now, in fact, what has now been presented has been a basis for carrying out a transport policy assessment and, ultimately, a transport policy framework decision. The presentation of the so-called GSD study, the overall study on transport development in the Danube European region, by your predecessor Minister Farnleitner was actually an ambitious attempt to bring order into the chaos of country wishes. It was an ambitious attempt also to consider the whole range of transport, in this case unfortunately only road transport, and would in fact also have had the opportunity to deduce certain priorities. Unfortunately – and I very much regret this, and therefore I have asked for this discussion – these priorities are unfortunately not apparent from your reply to the question, Mr Minister, except a small approach to building the one road by 2010, the next roads by 2020 and the next one perhaps sometime. What is available here in this collection is the list of wishes to the Christian Child, the assembly of all country wishes, what each country leader has summarized and reported to the Ministry precisely on the basis of the mayor's wishes. But obviously it is not the case that the decision within this collection of country wishes would be taken on a factual basis, because – I am sorry – the answer was then relatively thinr in terms of setting priorities. Every head of state who wants something that wants it with intensity and also has a bit of influence will get a road beyond that, whether it is useful, necessary or at the moment especially important. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For example, under your predecessor, you obviously still have the head of state in Lower Austria, so that he surrenders at Semmering – which was clearly read – the North Motorway promised. Now he didn't give up on Semmering. Should we perhaps build the North Motorway now, or should we not rather say goodbye to this project, which brings a number of international transport into our country? Thus, the Upper Austrians have been promised white that they should immediately get a high-level motorway link via Freistadt to the north, without again discussing carefully and carefully to see if the huge traffic that is projected there should not be handled over the rails, for example. And now I come to the next point, and it is particularly important to me. In this whole composition, the aspect of the combination of different modes of transport is completely missing. When I take into account the press releases of the last days, which mentioned what recruitment projects are in place in railway projects, I also miss a departure from certain projects that have been operating for years and decades, for example, in the response to the questions. Given the total cost you list for these networks, of saying and writing 81.5 billion schilling alone by 2010 and 138 billion schilling for the entire collection of country wishes, I really miss a departure from many superfluous projects that could be avoided once the cost-truth is produced on the road, so if one reduces truck traffic, senseless and superfluous traffic, in order to have to build fewer roads and finally have less maintenance costs. What has so far been politically presented – also in consultation with the latest press releases – is just one thing: You are obviously ready to cut down on the large roads of the railway. So – and this is a particularly absurd situation – the access to the Lainzer Tunnel and the descent from the Lainzer Tunnel should be built, but not the Lainzer Tunnel itself! I'd like you to explain this tortoise to us. [[Call to the liberals: you have no idea!]] In the end, for example, the Koralmbahn will also be abandoned, and the Semmering project will continue to be pushed to the long bank. No mention is made of the question of the Semmeringschnellstraße, which from my point of view is a high-risk project in road construction. This is not questionable, which is simply to be built, no matter whether it meets modern traffic requirements or not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You have no idea at all!]] Over the last few days, there have also been a lot of plans of the Austrian Federal Railways for the recruitment of secondary railways discussed and appeared and, Minister, you... Wait, that's coming, Minister. [[Abg. Wattaul: Not that again!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: I don't have to answer that!]] That's in the question. You said thank God you were going to pipe back the ÖBB Draxler. I hope that you will also bring it back to exactly those projects where the networking of different modes of transport, road and rail, is not taken into account. The following must be clear: If you are discussing railway lines and new projects and you are setting up a road in these plans – without setting priorities and without clarity about when to come, but after all – the railway development is of course not really the most successful step. I believe that in this overall transport concept – and you have announced that you want it to be developed by a working group – the networking of rail and road modes must be much stronger than before. Above all, I wish myself clear corridor decisions. Either we build, as it is included in the catalogue of national leaders, many new roads in the East for East Transport, or we decide to look into the future and put on the train. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] However, if I see – and this is my question – there are road demands with a total cost framework of 138 billion Schilling – and we will have problems with financing these road demands – and only when railways are folded, I have to fear that Mr Schmid's new transport policy will be purely on the road, will bring about a shattering of all public transport, and that we will waste money on road construction projects that are not even more prioritized, which will ultimately have negative consequences for the arrants, but also for nature in these areas. I call for a departure from critical, controversial transport projects, such as the Lobau Tunnel, the Lobauautobahn. I call for this money for public transport. Then we take a step into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14898	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Enquiryer! I would also like to answer the extensive questions that God unfortunately does not contain in the written request, because I simply want to clear misunderstandings and because here one or another has been put into space, which is certainly not true. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: So did the media lie?]] I would ask you to take note of this beforehand. So, for example, the assumption that I want to move on the track. There's a financing law. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: 15 percent savings!]] I would ask you not to make any further errors in the public, to listen to me for at least a minute. I have never and never talked about the reduction of investments in the Federal Railways. If you look at the middle part of the Lainzer tunnel and have made a technically completely wrong statement, I have found the following in agreement with all the transport experts, and also on the freight transport of St. Pölten: Both projects only make sense when the four-track extension of the Westbahn, in particular between Vienna and St. Pölten, has taken place. I would like to stress once again – this is not the subject of your request: That this project, this four-track extension, is not contained in the Rail Financing Act and was nowhere planned as a project, I have no responsibility and was not my decision. I'm going to review them. We will do this step by step and in the interest and in connection with improved rail infrastructure. I say again: This is not about questions raised in the written request, but about new questions. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I have already said that clearly!]] They have also made the claim that I would like to delete secondary lanes to a large extent. Please don't confuse me with the Director-General of the Austrian Federal Railways. It is Mr Draxler and not Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schmid, who wants to set up secondary tracks to a large extent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] By the way: For your inquiry, you have noticed for yourself that it has been answered to the highest extent. I may be able to correct another error in your request: With regard to road construction, my predecessor was not Farnleitner, my predecessor was Bartenstein. ==References== ==References== I have already conducted the first discussions on the integration of a total Austrian road map and have already set up a working group so that we can get on a reasonable path here. I think it's going to be very good. Your question was already asked to Bartenstein. By the way, I also believe that you have been very well informed in a private body of over two hours that you have done in my department. I am looking forward to further constructive discussions because I am an absolute Pragmatist on these issues that we will have to deal with together. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What about the 15 percent savings?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Subways are stopped – what does the Minister do?]] Mr deputies, the question concerns the streets.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15016	We are now entering the short debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15041	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the misunderstanding or the question has arisen after the latest news reports that have been about the secondary tracks. There were also statements by Dr. Draxler from the Austrian Federal Railways – that is right. But I cannot imagine that the Director-General of the Austrian Federal Railways can make such statements without voting with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: These were statements at a press conference!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Do you think he agreed with him?]] I know him very well, he certainly agrees all these statements with the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! I've got a little forenote. I agree with the view of my green predecessor, Mr Lichtenberger, that this is an inadequate response to the question. However, I do not share the opinion of Mr Lichtenberger in all her comments. Now on the content: After adjustment of discretionary expenditure, approximately 1 billion Schillings will be available for the federal roads in 2000. According to expert estimates, ladies and gentlemen, this will affect three quarters in a reduction in new construction projects and a quarter in maintenance. What does that mean? This means that the funds available for the new construction will fall from around 2.4 billion schilling in 1999 to 1.7 billion schilling in 2000. According to Wifo, this means annihilation of about 1,400 annual jobs. This simply doesn't fit in with the concept of the Freedom Party, which has padded: To create jobs. It must be pointed out again and again that something different is happening than was promised before the elections. That's objectionable, that's not all right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your Federal Government will directly damage the construction industry by reducing the construction contracts. This certainly also leads to a deterioration in the regional labour market situation. This also means that the overall economic location of Austria is damaged because the transport infrastructure cannot be developed and maintained in accordance with the needs. [[Abg. Wattaul: But this is what the Socialists owe!]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in fact saving the future of our country, and there is no way of saving it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the SPÖ made a number of project-related requests on the most important form of development in the high-level road network, including federal roads B, to the Federal Minister yesterday, asking for information on how and in what way the extension projects are delayed, until when and in which projects have to be postponed the long-standing completion dates. [[Abg. Wattaul: That was the one!]] Federal Minister! They also meet the quality of life of Austrian citizens. Read the headline in the "Kronen Zeitung" today. It is also saved in the case of local travels, which continues to cause people to suffer from a reduction in the quality of life. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: That's not true!]] Noise protection measures and similar measures will be saved, as will the development of tourism in whole rural areas. [[Abg. Wattaul: What has happened over the past 30 years?]] This is a policy that we do not support, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Who's to blame?]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: I've only been in charge for six weeks!]] It is also unbearable when I think of the tangent in Vienna. They meet people here in central areas, especially in Vienna, where the transport infrastructure is no longer enough and the almost daily pendulum staw on the A 23, the tangent, can no longer be handled. [[Abg. Wattaul: Say that to the Socialist Group!]] Go to work or home in the morning or in the evening! They're gonna stand more than they're driving. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: I've only been in the resort for six weeks!]] That's your responsibility now, and I don't even want you to take care of it. But in the future you will have to arrange this for us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: In six weeks you can't take care of this!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We have held extensive discussions in the old government on the Master Plan and the GSD study. [[Abg. Wattaul: Discuss, but you didn't do anything!]] We have also adopted a joint resolution with the EIA, in which we have specifically defined the transport and environmental policy, but also the spatial and economic importance of the high-level road network for the future of our country, and this with concrete plans. More than that, others are being done. At that time we decided: The gap is to be further completed. The aim is to develop links in the high-level road network in the reform countries. The realization of an urgently needed motorway-fast road ring around the Großraum Wien is to take place. The construction of second tunnel tubes in the high-ranking road network... [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: But you did nothing!]] I don't hear anything about that at all. The improved access to airports – even this does not happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15269	Mr deputies, your speaking time is exhausted. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15285	The final sentence is very simple: All that is happening here is unreasonable, and I urge you, Federal Minister, to reconsider this attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15315	Mr Firlinger has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15336	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr Eder! Is he still there? Right away... No, he's still there. That's from the old clothes collection. – You know, the policy of the new minister is not unbearable, it is only two months, three months in office. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: I've had jurisdiction for five weeks!]] Unbearable, Mr Eder, is your argumentary, which worked together in its determination like a house of cards. [[Abg. Oellinger: Firlinger – the meaning you are!]] Unbearable, Mr Eder, was the budgetary policy of your group, your Socialist Minister for Finance. The result: We cleared up like a Christmas tree on 30. December. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a fact, and that is why all ministries must be saved, including the Ministry of Transport. Yes, do you think it's funny to take back the road construction program to a billion shillings? It's not funny. [[Abg. Eder: At the same time, you spend several billion schillings!]] If you go out here today and ask: What did the new minister do?, then I ask you: What did you do? You didn't do anything! You talked. [[Abg. Eder: Read the newspapers!]] Your former Minister for Transport, Dr. One who is not here at all in the debate – do you know what he has done? – He has made a chaotic infrastructure policy together with his predecessor and predecessor for many years. What does that mean? The result was: Since a cornerer is planning, since a cornerer is building, because a piece is again – only so that the citizen cannot judge what is actually being built, how efficiently it is built and when it is finished. No one should see that, no one should know. That was the tactic in this ministry for many years, Mr. Eder. Letter You're going to go to the main book once! [[Abg. Eder: I don't have a regular book!]] And after all this, you still want to sell us this initiative today, and this and that is still to be done. Nothing has been done, Mr President, once again, and stop posing around why you are now in the opposition. Get used to it, please! I'm really looking for you politely. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'd like to say something to you: The Federal Minister has acted perfectly correctly by finally concentrating the resources of this chaotic planning of the past and saying that I am now rapidly expanding. This is the only way forward. You would never have done that because you were always in play with particular interests. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the Greens I would like to say one more thing, Mrs Lichtenberger: If you believe that this request has been answered so precisely and you have learned some new things from it, I ask you: Then why did you even ask this question? In my opinion, the suspicion is that you do not want to debate and discuss seriously here. They want something else. Do you know what you want? You want to create a "wirbilein". You did not come to the train today in a urgent request, as you seem to have "rejected" your partner in the opposition, and there you still have to deliver a small action. Please, be it! I can assure you that next week there will again be a detailed discussion on the subject of transport in the context of the budget debate. We will be able to discuss a number of positions in real detail. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Super!]] But I also appeal to you: If you want to be quite credible now and in the future, then you already have to put a little different salary into your inquiries. Just making a "wirbilein," Mrs. Lichtenberger, please, is too little for me. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: If you are always listening to the first half set, no content can help you!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: (in the direction of freedom) Please, finally take Him to the ophthalmologist!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What I want to express with this: We are at any time willing to discuss the major infrastructure projects in the committees and in the plenary session with all the necessary materiality. Only: To bite in the haxel constantly and just piss because you're in the opposition – please, that can't be the right companion music. I ask you to: Return to a constructive opposition policy and make yourself think of some failure for the argumentation!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15496	As the next speaker, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15517	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Eder! You said: Everything was unreasonable or everything the Minister does now is unreasonable. [[Abg. Eder: No, I didn't say!]] – However, this is also true of you, because much of what is in the answer to the question, Mr Commissioner, is still based on considerations of the old Federal Government. [[Abg. Eder: But there was your minister in charge!]] – That was our minister, yes, that is why it was not unreasonable, I would like to expressly say that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Much of what is in it is very reasonable. But one thing was unreasonable, namely the division between the Ministry of Railways and the Ministry of Roads – and we have eliminated it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Lichtenberger, I really cannot share your criticism of the answer to the question, because what you have mounted is in answer to the question. [[Abg. Oillinger: But this is fundamental opposition!]] It is clear that, of course, there has also been a series of priorities in road construction, it is clearly listed which projects have been included in Stages 1, 2 and 3. By the way, no minister has so far promised in Upper Austria a motorway to Freistadt or to the Czech Republic, as you have claimed here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: "Czechs" means that!]] Czech Republic! Did I say something else? [[Abg. Arbitrators: "Chechei" you said!]] . I have no problems with such small semantic differences, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! But people there have problems with it!]] – I know that you, as an foreign politician, are doing this very well! All right: Czech Republic! [[Abg. Oillingers: The "humping" of the ÖVP!]] You have also demonstrated that the Minister would not have said anything about the collaboration you required between the Bundesbahn, the Schiene on the one hand and the road on the other. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No!]] On the contrary! The Minister says: The merger of the two Ministries now opens up the possibility of setting clear priorities in the development of infrastructure and of finally making such a congregation which the Social Democrats previously refused. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The chance, please!]] [[Abg. Edler: Why have you prevented it for years?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Lichtenberger! They're making corridor decisions. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes!]] – So that was exactly the meaning of the GSD study, namely – then you have to read the study! – to create the basis for corridor decisions, in particular for corridors abroad, especially to the north and east to the new EU enlargement countries, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Where, please?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I know her!]] And that's exactly what happens now! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Where? Where? Don't! That's the problem!]] They say there must finally be equal rights for the rails, there must finally be more investment in the rails. [[Abg. Eder: Cost truth!]] - You don't know the numbers either, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes!]] If you would know the figures, you would actually have to stand for equal treatment of the road, because today the investment volume is already reversed [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Think of the last 30 years!]] The recent study by the Economic Research Institute – not mine, that of the Economic Research Institute, Mrs. Colleague, of September 1999, shows that investments in federal roads and motorways by the federal government and by road construction companies have declined dramatically between 1983 and 1997! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, three times as much investment in the rail as in the road! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We would not have needed many motorways at all!]] These are the transport realities, I must tell you that too! And you should also look at this once so that you are back to the last state of affairs, Mrs Colleague. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! You should not close your eyes before the traffic policy reality, as you do because of your one-sided ideological fixation on the rail. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But that is what they do.]] You should see more often what is happening on our streets, and you should note that our today's road infrastructure is no longer satisfying the requirements of a modern location policy and that there is a need to do something here. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I see that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Just because I see that, I demand decisions!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I'll tell you one more on the subject of side-cars...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15862	Mr deputies, your speaking time is exhausted. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15878	The issue of secondary trains will certainly continue to concern us intensively in the coming weeks and months. I would just like to say one more thing: You are also sitting on the wrong steamer on this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15908	Mrs Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15943	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From the steam ride back to the subject. I understand, though, that the controversy between road and rail, from me also shipping, has a certain heating effect, but the problem is that, in this discussion, the real discussions, namely the backgrounds of a transport philosophy, are not being conducted. [[Abg. Böhacker: At the steam locomotive you have to heat up!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You can't get that into a short debate!]] I'll give you the right to: Minister Schmid has taken over a legacy – the heritage was split, the heritage is so to speak from two sources, namely from the Ministry of Transport, i.e. the railway source, and from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that is the road source. This area has not yet been coordinated – that is fact! But now the Minister has the opportunity to coordinate for the first time. Our request was now aimed at getting the future measures on the table – these should already be an expression of this coordination work, so at last expressing the fact that there is a uniform transport philosophy and no more parallel actions. But what do we find in the answer to the question? – We find again the road construction philosophy, however with strips. As a green person, I must be very grateful for the dictatorship of empty cash registers, because you have a billion less for road construction through these empty cash registers and therefore you are very carefully considering the priorities. I prefer it, and I welcome the fact that you are working pragmatically and first of all you are considering the priorities. They probably have less for the rail, so it is also important to consider priorities. But before all considerations of pragmatic nature, I appeal to you, Minister: Put your transport philosophy once, put the basic values of transport policy to the discussion! Confess yourself to an environmentally friendly, human-friendly, also economic-compliant transport policy! After all, we have to make optimum use of the narrow good road and the narrow track. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Normally the price is the best control system, the price control is the optimal tool to reach the goal of your journey in your transport philosophy. That is why we constantly argue for cost-truth, so that the one who uses the rail pays for it, and that the one who uses the road pays for it. What about the cost-truth in the street? – We have 50 percent undercover! Mr Minister, I am strengthening your back when you introduce the toll, but I would much rather strengthen your back if you introduced the kilometre, so that every kilometre you drive – whether on the high-ranking or secondary road system – really costs something. Then have You have the economic use, then you have the control over the price and then you can use your systems to the maximum – in favor of that, I say, the economy! Please practice your so-called pragmatic approach in so far a bit also under the aspect of a basic value approach! Ask: What do I want to achieve, and with what means do I achieve it? – I say: With Bundesstraßen-Planung, with Bundesstraßen-Bau, according to the food plan, according to the menu of the national leaders or according to the ideas perhaps not the road construction referents. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 35 s for a liter of petrol, that's terrible!]] . I have been influenced by colleagues from Upper Austria Kukacka. There are very decorated people who are very likely to accompany corridor studies. The Corridor study in Upper Austria has four variants: the B 310 – that is, it used to be more lower than before – and the whole spectrum was called B 125. I'm really excited about what's going to happen in the autumn when Dr. Rinder's corridor study is on the table, so if four variants are dealt with side by side: the train variant, the road variant, the zero version – where you don't do anything – and the combination variant. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: How does the green variant look?]] I am curious about what kind of variant will then beat your heart, Mr Minister, and your heart, Mr Kukacka, for which you will be valued! Then it's just going to show that you're back up the realism concept over everything, and your realism concept is always called street construction. For me this was very exhilarating, because "realistic" is clearly: What's going on, let's go! – This is your realism, I can’t say: philosophy; Your approach anyway. I particularly liked Mr Eder's comment, which said that the gap should be extended. - I don't know how far that was a promiser. [[Abg. Eder nodd.]] If I want to, I have to close gaps and build roads! I laugh because my colleague Parnigoni is not here because...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16025	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time has ended. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16041	Mr Eder is probably a high-ranking officer of the ARBÖ, and in so far probably even further to the right in overtaken than Mr. Schmid, who may be too...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16067	Final rate, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16083	...tossed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16113	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16134	I will resume the negotiations on item 1 of the agenda on the Advisory Group IX. Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16159	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Bartenstein, the Minister in charge of economics and employment, is no longer present in this debate, but perhaps you can align him with what I have to say here. Dear Mr. Maderthaner – he's not here either – Mr. Schwarzenberger – is not here either... [[Contradiction of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Schwarzböck, I'm sorry, Schwarzböck! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Stay with the truth!]] Dear Mrs. Pablo – not here either. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] - That's it. [[Abg. Auer: You always say the untruth!]] In the debate before the urgent question on work and business...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16222	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16238	... and dealing with the situation of disabled people in Austria. All those who are lucky to have only a short-term memory, I would like to remind them: It was about the fact that Mrs. Pablo, at least she said it and also that she will continue to do so, has been particularly committed to disabled people. I would therefore like to give her and her group the opportunity to support the following motion for a resolution on job creation for disabled people. [[Quoted print version removed]] This motion for a resolution is therefore so important because it should be equally attractive for entrepreneurs to employ or reject a disabled person by spending the same sum in both cases. If an entrepreneur employs a disabled person, he will have to pay the compensation in the form of pay plus additional wage costs if he does not employ any, then he shall transfer this amount to the compensation tax fund. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the liberals! You can now prove with your disabled speaker, Mrs. Pablo, whether you are actually supporting the interests of disabled people. We're going to look closely. But now I would like to go again to my accusations and to the verbal derailment of Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Maderthaner – Schwarzböck, apologise! Mr. Schwarzböck and Mr. Maderthaner, who have called me – Mr. Maderthaner has literally done it, Mr. Schwarzböck indirectly – as a liar in this House. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Hello! Again! What did I say?]] [[Abg. Schwarzböck: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. 'Auer: An untruth!]] Mr Maderthaner, or those who could do it to him, I would like to read a letter to the allegations I have made this morning, and I ask you to listen. The letter comes from the Association of War Victims and Disabled Persons for Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland. It's in this letter – it's 5th. June 1998; I quote –: Last week, the War Victims and Disabilities Association for Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland was contacted by an installation company in the northern Lower Austria regarding the recruitment of a disabled person. The question was about the possibility of continuing the training of a disabled person, who should be included in a working relationship of the installation firm after the occupational rehabilitation has been carried out. In this discussion, the company also informed us that contacts were made with the Chamber of Commerce of Lower Austria, but was given by the Board of Directors of the firm of urgent advice to refrain from the recruitment of the disabled, since this only entails difficulties. - Quote. [[Abg. Neudeck: That wasn't a letter from the Maderthaner!]] That is the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce! And if I remember quite well, it was until a few weeks ago. Mr. Madethaner, President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce – or am I wrong? [[Abg. Neudeck: He's still there!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: It's still him!]] [[Call: You're wrong]] - That's what I'm wrong with? So he wasn't your President of the Chamber of Commerce? [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The Chamber of Commerce of Lower Austria is not the Chamber of Commerce of Austria!]] Good! Then I would like to see stenographically maintained that the ÖVP claims that Mr Madethaner was never president of the Federal Chamber of Commerce. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] In my opinion, this letter shows very clearly the attitude of the Chamber of Commerce towards the interests of disabled people, shows that the Chamber of Commerce does absolutely nothing to ensure that disabled people get a job. On the contrary: In this letter, the installation firm is strongly advised not to hire an disabled person because, in the view of the Chamber of Commerce, it is only difficult to do so. [[Abg. Wattaul: Who made the law?]] But that alone is not enough! The Association of War Victims has allowed this letter to be sent to the Deputy Minister of State Lese Prokop, Dr. Gottfried Feursteinand Mr ÖAAB-Obmann – at the time he was still ÖAAB-Obmann and still Federal Minister – to send Dr. Werner Fassleven, with the result that no single line of an answer or opinion has come to this day. Mr Maderthaner was also asked through the APA to comment on the position of the Chamber of Commerce on 13 March. ==References== [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: He was never president of the Chamber of Commerce of Lower Austria!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, he has not been able to do so until today. But for this, Mr. Maderthaner – and that is not uninteresting either – already took place on the 21st century. On the question of disabled people in the "standard" in January 1994, the following points were made: Lower wages for long-term unemployed and disabled people. Leopold Maderthaner, President of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce – the "standard" has therefore also committed itself! –, requires more imagination at the conclusion of close-to-company collective contracts. – It says that a wage category for long-term unemployed, for the disadvantaged and for the disabled is also imaginable. And in this letter, he calls for a collective agreement for this group of persons to be held under the collective agreement in force in these areas. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not only contrary to the principle of equal pay for equal work, but also to a certain attitude, and this confirms my view of the attitude which this Federal Government and, above all, Mr Maderthaner have towards people with disabilities today in the morning! This shows quite simply Your social image you have vis-à-vis minorities. I expect you, Mr Schwarzböck and Mr Maderthaner, to apologise not only for these verbal derailments, but also for all disabled people in Austria and especially for the Association of War Victims and Disabled Persons for Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland, and also for the fact that you have not only called me, but also the authors of this documentation as liars!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16458	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Schwarzböck spoke on an actual correction. – honourable Member, please note § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Start playing the facts to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16485	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Haidlmayr, has just said that I would have accused her of lying in my morning speech or the discussion contribution. I'm correcting that I didn't put that word in my mouth and didn't raise that accusation either. I wouldn't raise him if I had the feeling that she lied. Mrs Haidlmayr! Read the Stenographical Protocol! I didn't even stripe the words you put in my mouth.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16521	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does Mr Special Rapporteur wish to speak? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Advisory Group IX of the Federal Proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapters 63 and 64 of the Federal Proposal, together with the part of the economic compensatory estimate in Chapter 64 in 60 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 80 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. - That's the majority. The proposal is accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group IX of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Nürnberger and Mr Comrades on an active labour market policy programme for reintegration into the labour market for 13 000 long-term unemployed. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Comrades on an active labour market policy programme for the reintegration of long-term unemployed people with special needs in the labour market. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the increase in the tax on compensation under the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also the minority. The application is rejected. Advisory Group XII Chapter 40: Military matters (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16619	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group XII: Military affairs. An oral report has been omitted by the Special Rapporteur. Mr Gaál is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. [[Abg. Gaál: 10 minutes!]] – Please very much: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16649	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, you have in your address as a new Minister of Defense and also in your statement here in the House on 9 May. February 2000 defines the future guidelines for your security policy and repeatedly points out that it is necessary to provide the Federal Government with the necessary financial resources and equipment so that it can best fulfil the mandate given by Austrian laws. With your first budget, however, your policy of announcement will be picked up by reality. Federal Minister! The FPÖ has repeatedly – I may say so – called for the military budget to be increased to at least 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product. Now the drastic cuts by your Minister of Finance show the importance of military national defence in this government. You, Mr Federal Minister, have in the past repeatedly accused the SPÖ of standing in the way of an increase in the military budget and starved the German army. But what happens in your ministry, Mr. Federal Minister? – The federal army is facing a budget cut in billions, as it has not been there since the army existed, and with it – I say – the defence capacity of Austria is at risk in view. You yourself have to admit that you cannot be satisfied with this budget, and have spoken of a "notbudget". Federal Minister! They have managed to get under the 0.8% limit on gross domestic product for the first time with this defence budget, thanks to a Minister of Finance for which the German army and the military defence are obviously no longer worth a schilling! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, Minister, you want to save on foreign operations, especially in the area of maintaining peace in certain regions. To save here, Minister of State, would really be a false signal! The only correct conclusion in these important federal forces – whether it be the assistance on the border, i.e. border control, or the international peacekeeping operations – is that the resulting additional costs are actually recovered to the German army. Federal Minister! In this respect, you must prevail to ensure that these achievements of our soldiers are properly honoured. You have my full support! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! In order to achieve the exorbitant high personnel costs in half, the army administration needs to be radically rebuilt, thus creating a clear leadership structure and defining a clear responsibility for planning, procurement, complementing and training. Otherwise, any attempt to improve or change in the federal army is condemned to failure. We know this, Mr Federal Minister, from common times in the 1992 military division, in order to give a negative example here. Allow me to address another point: Federal Minister, eliminate Finally, you, as spokesperson of the FPÖ, often and rightly criticized chaos in the procurement sector! Put in place realistic and transparent planning of principles, a principle that includes tasks, structure and use, and set the right priorities here, so that we can finally take into account our long-term demands, but also the intentions of the Court of Auditors, which has repeatedly highlighted these shortcomings and called for their elimination. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Federal Minister! Another word for the planned procurement of transport helicopters to remind here of the intentions of the National Defence Council: The key to the political decision to acquire helicopters of a new category at that time was primarily the use of disasters – and not military battle tasks, Mr. Federal Minister! The National Defence Council recommended the procurement of new helicopters with the highest possible capacity for passenger transport, not the procurement of a military weapons platform, as they are attack helicopters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! In this task, too, economic compensation should not be forgotten so that this procurement, which is necessary and necessary, helps to secure existing jobs in Austria and create new jobs. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to refer to the preparation of a new Austrian safety and transport doctrine. I am convinced that no one understands that the opposition will not be involved in important security issues where the abolition of military service or the introduction of a professional force is discussed. National security issues must be resolved on the basis of national consensus. This was also the case with the National Defence Plan, where all the parties were involved. I expect the same procedure and discussions at the parliamentary level in the interests of the security of Austria and its people. Here in this House is the focus of these discussions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! As long as our concrete ideas and proposals for an efficient federal army are not taken into account and, in addition, not all measures relating to principle planning in the field of organization and procurement can be understood in a coherent overall approach, there will be no as always consent from our side, not to this budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! You have accused your predecessor Dr. Fassleven whenever you have addressed him as "Mr Defence Minister" that he has not defended the Federal Army budget enough – or more badly than right. You, Minister of Defence, may I ask: Take care not to reduce the budget only in a mischievous manner, but even "slowly" because under this Minister of Finance, it has become more tighter than it has ever been in Fassleven times. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: That's good!]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16761	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Gaál and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Jung is speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16786	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The new Minister of Defence has taken on a very important task, but also – as Mr Gaál correctly summarized – unheard of: He has to reorganise a ministry that has been a stepchild of Austrian politics since his existence and has been financially severely under-dated for more than a decade. At the same time, new additional tasks will be assigned to him at the same time. All this is to be done despite the inherited budget disaster. Mr Gaál, who is known to us from the Defence Committee as a competent and fair colleague, has criticized this. The criticism of the budget is in principle appropriate, but Mr Gaál: Where nothing is, the emperor has lost the right! [[Abg. Gaál: It has become more "grass"!]] Your Wiener Stadtkaiser Edlinger, the Minister of Finance, has downturned the budget so that there is almost nothing left in this bag, nothing but debt. This situation must be taken into account in this first budget, which is a bridge budget and can only represent one. Although the last decade has brought an end to the East-West opposition, and thus a reduction in its scope for many armed forces in Europe, it has not been the case for the Austrian federal army. On the contrary, the field of tasks for us has expanded. Let's remember: The collapse of the Belgrade system in 1991 led to the collapse of Yugoslavia and the use of the German army on the Austrian border. Day-long fights in the border areas Carinthia and Styria, and as a result of a multi-year war in our immediate neighborhood, were the result. The German army took over border control, and the population was grateful for the protection it requested. It then resulted in the continuation and extension of the war in the Balkans. The results of the resolution in Albania made it necessary to protect the civilian population in this area and also to keep uncontrolled flows of refugees in our area in their borders, in the international context, which had not yet been in this form. I recall the use of SFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the use of aid in Albania and also the KFOR operation in Kosovo that is still under way. In addition, international aid efforts in natural disasters – Turkey, Armenia and Mozambique are just a few keywords – all the challenges that have been mastered. At the same time, the two major UN missions in Cyprus and Golan continued to run, where Austria increasingly took over the task of training other states, namely Hungary and Slovenia, in carrying out international tasks – a completely new commitment. At the same time, the many small UN missions – I think they are about 17 in total – are taking place in which the federal army is involved. The asylum flows and the migrants that have flooded our country since the collapse of the Iron Curtain have shown that border surveillance without the federal army is simply impossible. The majority of all illegals are seized by the federal army. The people are also grateful for this, and they even demand an extension of their efforts. Finally, it is still necessary to deal with disasters in Austria – Galtür as the last one – and to say little thank you and hardly notice any assistance at many major events – here I call only the EU Presidency. In all these efforts, the Federal Government brought honor to Austria, protected the lives of threatened civilians, and helped to rebuild destroyed structures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It increased our reputation in the world, and we politicians thanked for it – briefly! – and suppressed that these additional tasks also require additional resources that we have never given to the army. What, then, happened to the army as an emergency solution? – All forces were focused on dealing with these efforts. A large part of the new equipment and equipment and the best people were gathered together and pulled together. The total cost of this was more than 20 billion schilling over the last ten years. A whole army budget has been removed and missing from training and procurement for this additional commitment, but Austrian use. The postponement of important procurements was the result that will make itself felt in the coming years – this problem has not been resolved for a long time. The few contracts made – I remember Leopard, Pandur – were not undisputed and will also burden future budgets. We are so far today that soldiers are being driven to exercises because of the truck problem with rented buses. In 1998 there were over 2 000 rentals that had to be made. That's an unsustainable state! Another example: In the mid-1980s, when we acquired the used Dragons as a transitional solution, as it was then called, it was clearly stated in all the bodies that a post-purchase was launched in the mid-1990s – and not decided! - must be. What happened? - Nothing! And now the SPÖ is making demands. In 1991 even people had called after the Draken, who had previously refused their home country. Now we have been forced by delayed government and, above all, by the disastrous budgetary situation that has already been mentioned this year to postpone the necessary increase in the financial framework. However, it must be clear to all of us – the coalition is aware of this – that there is still a need to reverse the trend in this legislative period and that there is a noticeable increase in the budget. It must also be clear to us that additional tasks require additional funding. Meanwhile, the minister has to save and rationalise where it goes – in which I agree with colleagues Gaál – and he will – he has also promised to do so – start to save up and not down at the top of the team. This is not easy and an ungrateful task. But that's why he has our full support. A second, perhaps even bigger, task awaits him. In addition to the necessary trend in the financial field, there is still a minimum of just as important a decision in principle: the question of whether or not we will be able to guarantee our security on our own, as security policy means much more than just military defence, or whether we will be able to act more effectively and cost-effectively in an alliance in the future – I say here: in an alliance – in solidarity. Security policy is a pragmatic issue, which should not be treated without value, but without ideological background. How do we maintain the interests of Austria in the long term? – That must also be the task of this House. It should also be possible in Austria, as in almost all civilised states, to find a cross-party line, not only because this would increase the foreign policy situation and credibility of Austria – here I deliberately say "Austria" and not "this government" – but also because security policy cannot be a zigzag course, but must follow a long-term goal, without four-year leaps after the respective government. This requires the approval of a large part of the population. In order to achieve this, we will have to have a security policy debate with the population, not just in this House, and in this we will have the better arguments. However, the debate must not be based on the myth of neutrality alone, but must involve the changed geopolitical situation of Europe and, of course, Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the same time, we clearly and clearly acknowledge that there will be no alliance membership without polling citizens in that country. We do not make a policy against that, but rather with the population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Take this debate with us. When formulating the security objectives of the coalition, we have deliberately adopted the text of the SPÖ/ÖVP agreement almost identically, in order to facilitate your entry into the boat. Let us at least row together for Austria on this issue! In this sense, the motion for a resolution which I am going to put into effect and which I will briefly explain: [[Quoted print version removed]] The main purpose of the motion for a resolution is to take a decision by the National Council in 1975, in which the National Council asks the Federal Government – that is important, please! – to submit a report on the security situation of Austria in Europe after consulting the Council of State Defense, in which the major opposition party has the strongest number of seats. In this context, the National Council welcomes those on 28 March. In April of this year, the Federal Government announced its intention to prepare a new Austrian Security and Defence Doctor and to set up a Commission to draw up the proposal on this subject. Here, even if you still reject this today, you still have the opportunity to get into an active design of Austrian security policy, and I very much hope that this offer will be accepted. We'll definitely keep this door open. Another word about your counter-proposal, which has been put in here: It contains many interesting points, which must be admitted, but it is already taking the results of this Commission, in particular the last part. For this reason it is unacceptable in this form. The Commission should work and produce results that will then be discussed, which should be value-free and should include proposals from all. We should not allow the Commission from the outset. But I would like to stress once again: We are open to cooperation in this area. This is a very important concern for us, since I can also speak for the second defence spokesman, the ÖVP, who will certainly still address it. It is an important concern for us to get you – as somehow as possible – into the boat. I've already said it: The new Minister of Defence is waiting for difficult tasks, not least the already mentioned, namely, to convince the Minister of Finance kindly but definitely. This will not be easy, but if someone manages – that is my conviction – then it will be this minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He has the closed support of his club, as she has hardly been able to show a minister of defence in this form, because we know and appreciate him and his work. He has, from the very beginning, visible – this is probably an even more important support for him – the closed support of the federal army, whose relatives are very likely to recognize his difficult position and situation, but also to see that a minister is at work, who not only – even this is a novitality – has carried out his presence service when he was already a politician, and has not used his political function in order to dive somewhere inexhaustible, but has even continued to train voluntarily. He knows, therefore, how few in this house, not only the problems of the military chief and the military leadership, but also of the basic military servant from not too far past experience. We are convinced: This Minister can and will solve his difficult task. Take it up, Minister, you have our full support!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16893	I announce that the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing, which has just been put forward in his key points, has just been presented. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol and comrades on the preparation of a new Austrian Security and Defence Doctor were also presented in writing and supported enough. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16963	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Pillow. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e16984	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to thank you very much at the beginning. Since the takeover of the department by a representative of the Freedom Party, there has been a wave of information that has not yet been known by the positive forces in the Ministry of Defence. [[Abg. Wattaul: Do you feel safer?]] I would like to thank these officials, officials and contract staff very much and assure them that the information they have provided to us, including the accompanying documents, will be used in their sense and put to the public for discussion. There is just a motion for a resolution tabled. I do not know for sure that we have not read the security and federal army of the Government Declaration and therefore do not give sufficient importance to the sentence of preparing a new Austrian Security and Defence Doctor. - No, I don't. We read it. We can imagine what you can imagine under a "new Austrian Security and Defence Doctor". [[Abg. Kiss: What, colleague Pilz? I'd be interested in what you mean!]] That's why I hope you understand that we do not agree to this request. Nevertheless, we will discuss everything with you, but simply and simply because it belongs to a Parliament. [[Abg. Wattaul: Tell stories!]] My hope of being able to convince you at any point is relatively small, but worth the attempt. If we're sitting together, we'll try it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Let's do a little shame!]] Six points: First: Austria is safe. Austria is safe and is becoming ever safer, at least in the military sense of the word. [[Abg. Wattaul: He feels safe!]] Austria will soon be surrounded by a ring of NATO members. If one does not assume that there is a greater military risk from Switzerland or Liechtenstein, then it is not quite clear what its own Austrian army should be maintained in the amount of at least 20 billion Schilling budget resources. [[Abg. Wattaul: Read State Treaty!]] Evidence of the need for an Austrian federal army is not convincing at least in the current situation for the external borders of Austria, but perhaps you will find a new argument. [[Abg. Wattaul: State contract!]] But I doubt it because you yourself moved your argumentation years ago from the so-called conventional level of threat to the subconventional level of the threat, since You now had to look for a new enemy image overnight due to the absence of the enemy from the East, the red armies you have always been equipped against. This new enemy image is always found in the writings of the Federal Ministry of State Defense: the subconventional threat. What is this? – If you are studying the documents of your resort, read They are about organized crime, the Chechen gangs, the Albanian great criminals, the triads and what there is in political crime and proliferation. I do not advocate taking this seriously, but I advocate fighting it with the rule of law. The resources of the rule of law are clearly assigned to the courts and – subordinated – to the police authorities. In the fight against organised crime, the military has simply lost nothing! [[Abg. Großruck: First you have to catch them!]] Finally, take note of this simple principle of a rule of law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, This Austrian federal government is planning a strong upgrade within the framework of the German army, an upgrade that is justified by very little. I say to you: I have been dealing with the Austrian arms industry and the related interests for over twenty years now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Much of the interests in the arms industry and the development of a European arms industry are simply and simply related to corruption, individual enrichment and party funding. These are the main political reasons for expanding a European and Austrian arms industry. Look at the recent history of the Austrian People's Party, and look at the developments of the current Federal Chancellor in a arms business on the border of legality, which was smoothly manipulated by then Minister of Economic Affairs Dr. Schüssel! [[Abg. Prince: Even if you tell it so often, it won't be more true!]] It's the Thomson business. And a number of questions about the party finances of the ÖVP are still open. It is therefore on the table in the light of what the arms industry is all about: corruption, individual enrichment and party financing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On top of that – in particular you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, should never forget this – arms jobs are always only seemingly safe jobs. The safest jobs can be created in civil areas of future technologies, in other words, where the economy is developing, and not where political high-risk operations in front of the background of a small state, which cannot even provide the necessary political support, are constantly diverting into the grey area of international arms crime. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not have the slightest understanding – and I am already going to the third point – that, without saying it openly and decisively, you are projecting the essential steps towards NATO in this Republic until the autumn of this year: Upgrade, make weapons fit for NATO entry, structural takeovers, doctrine takeovers, declaration of alliances, statement of assistance in the government declaration and much more. [[Abg. Großruck: Joschka Fischer is already happy!]] Mr President, I would like to make it quite clear to you: I am not concerned with the principle of NATO. The discussion we are having is quite different. I say quite frankly to you: If I were German Greens, I would have a certain understanding of that. I have often discussed with Joschka Fischer the integration of the potentially most dangerous state of this continent into an alliance. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] The Austrian security politicians – perhaps a mistake to discuss seriously with you now, but I try – must first and foremost consider how the most positive traditions of Austrian foreign and security policy could make an independent contribution to more security and peace not only in Europe. [[Abg. Murauer: For Austria you have nothing left, for Germany already!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Where is the most dangerous state in this continent?]] We can learn well from Bosnia and Kosovo, because what was missing there was not the Austrian federal army's willingness to intervene at the end of NATO operations, because NATO does not really need us if it needs to intervene somewhere militaryly but to exploit the possibilities of a small, rich, block-free and no-one threatening state. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Which state is the most dangerous?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Which state do you think is the most dangerous in Europe?]] Already in the "pre-war" we need such states as Austria could be one of foreign and security policy. I know you're not worth the foreign-political legacy of Bruno Kreisky. We differ in this. One of the few phases in which the Austrian foreign and security policy proved world quality was the successful attempt at at least one start of the conflict in the southern Middle East. That was one of the few times where you can say Yes, this is an Austrian foreign and security policy, for which you must not be ashamed outside the national borders! [[Abg. Young: Tell us at last which state is the most dangerous!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Did you mean Austria?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Which state did you mean?]] To the army news office, ladies and gentlemen, I will come to speak, as the spokesman of the Lord's News Office was in front of me. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What's the state?]] Please explain to me in the budget debate: How do you want to finance 40 billion schilling costs for NATO entry and about 15 billion shilling for interception hunters? [[Abg. Young: Don't always talk in puzzles!]] Where did you put this 55 billion schilling? – In your agreement of the two parties you have held, out of which defense budget all this must not come. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Which state did you mean?]] [[Abg. Young: Don't you want to tell us?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Which state did you mean? - Austria?]] Yes, is there another budget? Are there any budget reserves we don't know about? Or does it have to be covered in other areas of the budget? [[Abg. Boy: He forgot that again!]] Ladies and gentlemen from the Army News Office and the Austrian People's Party! Where is this money to come from? Where did the 55 billion schilling come from? [[Abg. Neudeck: Christmas package!]] Or are you willing to get the money there, from where have you brought the missing funds, from the social budget and from the educational budget? – Everything says that you will return to the social and educational fields to buy interception hunters and finance NATO. [[Abg. Zweytick: You said that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There will be at least one political party – my hope would be, perhaps even two political parties – that is against it. Even some condolences within the Federal Ministry of Defence meet with us on this question. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Did you mean Austria, as the most dangerous state?]] Fifth. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't forget what you promised! One of your most important political promises was the abolition of military service. [[Call to the Freeman: Who promised?]] We will remind you of this promise! I repeat: We will remind you of this promise, and we will look very carefully at whether the young men who wanted to lure you with these promises are now being forced back into military service by free and black security politicians, or whether you are willing to join us in a majority for the abolition of the obligation of military service and the liberation of young men of this age. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, will be a nail sample, and I urge you to free with us the male youth of this Republic. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now tell us who is the most dangerous state!]] Six. You know, of course, that you have to expect a lot of criticism, with a lot of legitimate criticism and also with a lot of dissatisfaction in the population. Who likes to cut down social budgets, educational budgets, pensions, training times and support for single mothers, just so that you can finance withdrawal hunters and join NATO? - It's not popular. But your answer is not to take more popular measures, but to deal with the criticism differently, so that in the future every critic and critic will get into the thread cross of military intelligence services and the military intelligence services will be obliged to monitor all criticisms in this Republic without any difficulty. This is literally in the Military Power Act. They want to hire a member of the military intelligence services on every critic of the Austrian federal army. They want to expand the file stock in which there is already personal data over more than 60,000 people in this Republic to include many other files of federal government critics, whether they are journalists, mandaters or simple citizens. They want to answer criticism with surveillance. [[Abg. Zweytick: Fantasy knows no bounds!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is your political tradition. It is your political tradition not to take criticism seriously, but to say: Where we can stifle criticism, where we can mobilise intelligence services against democratic critics, we all benefit from our means of power. We now have 100 days of black and blue taking over power behind us. Everywhere you had the chance, you have used your power against any kind of criticism. You will also try it in this area. But we will also oppose all the resistance we are capable of. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's it. If I put all this together, consider it carefully and consider whether what I have said on behalf of my group warrants an approval of the budget chapter on "Military State Defense", I will come to a clear no after mature consideration and ask for an understanding of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17476	The next speaker is Mr Platter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17497	Now he's going. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz is just leaving the hall.]] – Dear Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to address my colleague Pilz. Now he's gone out. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz looks in at the door.]] Please, my colleague, stay there! Mr Pilz, briefly: I ask you to understand that I cannot discuss national defence and security policy with you for the following reason. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Then I can go again!]] You were not even present at the Committee's deliberations when it came to the national defence budget! Let us take a look at some of the statements made by Mr Pilz. For example: The best solution is the abandonment of the federal army, the second best solution the reduction to an tolerable measure. - Or the statement: In any case, barracks serve only to dilute the soldiers and should be abolished as soon as possible. I would ask you to understand, Mr Pilz, that we cannot discuss this. We may go back to eating a stickfish in Lisbon, but otherwise we have difficulties. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: When it comes to stockfishing, okay!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The worst thing that can happen to a state in the field of security policy and national defence is if social benefits are compared to the necessary expenses of national defence, or they are even kept before it, according to the motto: "Money rains for the military, but cuts in social benefits." In other socialist-led states, this looks completely different. They have a very uncomplicated relationship to security policy and national defence. I am thinking about Portugal, Italy, Germany and the UK. In this context, I also think of the socialist "Mr. CFSP", the former NATO Secretary-General. These socialist countries have no problem with the defence of the country. But they also keep them out of the party-political hack. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it is different with us in Austria. The SPÖ is primarily responsible for this. The main responsibility for this is that social benefits are always offset by national defence services. This is the SPÖ, and I quote to you a few ladies and gentlemen who are constantly speaking in this direction. For example: I quote a statement from the head of state of the SPÖ Styria Stepwieser of the 4th century. April 2000: "Money rains for the military, cuts in property policy. Utl.: Criticism of blue and black priorities in the budget "A look at the estimate for the 2000 budget is sufficient to expose the blue-black priority series. While FPÖ's Minister of Defense Scheibner has also made 1.35 billion schilling out of the state bag in addition, the money tap's social area is tightly turned on. The Ministry of Social Affairs has once again been reduced to 360 million schilling compared with the already shortened budget projects,” said the Styrian SPÖ country managing director Siegfried Stepwieser Tuesday vis-à-vis the SPÖ Press Office." "While one... the federal army..." – Of course from the SPÖ. [[Abg. Amon: Which party?]] And that's what it says: "While one... upgrades the federal army, the socially weaker remain on the track. This kind of politics must be turned down to the sharpest!’” – End of the quote. – I am telling you that this type of argumentation is to be rejected! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I also quote a statement from Mr Plank of the SPÖ yesterday. Keywords: "Taxes without social justice." – Mrs Plank von der SPÖ. [[Call the SPÖ:Woman Plank!]] Thank you for the information. She criticises that the German army is planning new purchases. [[New calls from Mr Leikam and Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Listen up! It criticises that the Federal Government is planning new purchases, which means that the government will be saved. – Ladies and gentlemen, Plank! You can only mean the helicopters. This is the only thing that will be purchased: the urgently needed helicopters, which rightly also demand SPÖ delegates. The third – and now it comes even more thick, ladies and gentlemen – quote comes from SPÖ-Federal Managing Director Doris Bures, personally, according to the press release of 22. March. It says under the heading – I quote – "Bures to the mind behind the budget": "The new policy does not reduce debt, but builds up a mountain of injustices." Among the winners, Mrs. Bures – dear colleague Leikam, what do you think? – the Federal Lord. She called the federal army among the winners. She criticises that the federal army is supposed to get 6 billion schilling too much. You have to imagine that! The federal army, the state defense budget gets 6 billion schilling too much. Against this, ladies and gentlemen, is the statement of the speaker Gaál of the 14th century. ==References== Mr Gaál's quote, which I very much appreciate: "The drastic cuts in the military budget by the blue finance minister speak a clear language, the importance of which military national defence actually has in the government coalition. The German army is now faced with budget cuts at billions." - Quote. [[Abg. Auer: Double-bedded!]] Thank you, Mr Stepsweiser! Mrs Plank! Dear SPÖ-Federal Managing Director Bures! Your spokesperson is right, of course, in the goal. We don't have a rain of money in the military! We don't have around 6 billion schillings too much, honourable Members Bures. On the contrary! We have an absolute emergency budget due to this budgetary problem, which can ensure the operation of the army! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Please enter one of the Keep the area of security policy out of the party policy hack! Try to find a common line within the SPÖ, and fail They say such words as "money rains for the military and cuts in social benefits"! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We therefore invite you to a broad consensus in the area of security policy. Work together within the framework of the Government Agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP already drawn up, which is in line with the Government Agreement between FPÖ and ÖVP in the near future! Ladies and gentlemen! To the defense budget. Of course, it is an absolute emergency budget – the Minister has also said that – and now it has to go a little further. There must be a move in the next budgetary negotiations. First: Structural changes must be made to enable savings potential in the area of management and management. Second point: Cost compensation for foreign operations. Third point: Recognization of the assistance in the area of the border. Fourth point: The important procurement of helicopters and, moreover, airspace surveillance must be carried out extra-budgetically, and fifthly, a gradual increase in the national defence budget is necessary. Minister! We'll have to bring something together together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: It is important to make important decisions over the next few months and years. For example, I call the new Security Doctrine, the Military Power Act, important procurement measures, the Military Assistance Act and the gradual increase in the Defense Budget. However, it is also important to find a way and an answer to the question: Where is Austria going in the field of security policy? We from the ÖVP say a clear yes to commonness in association. We say a clear yes to solidarity among EU countries and also say a clear yes to the establishment of a European peace, security and defence community with the same rights and obligations of all EU countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order for us to take this common path, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for a broad parliamentary discussion. We need a broad consensus in this House, but we also need a broad consensus from the population. I would like to invite you all to this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17654	Mrs Plank spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17678	Mrs Plattner – Sorry, Mr Platter! You said I had criticized yesterday that purchases for the federal army are coming. That's not right. I have criticized the investment plan that has been missing for years in the Federal Army, and I have asked who would stand up for the acquisitions if there is no investment plan, if that would be the weak again. I didn't criticize the acquisitions. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Auer: You have not read your own press release!]] – The protocol is to be read.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17723	Mr Scheibner spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17744	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of my findings on the 2000 national defence budget, I would like to begin by expressing my warmest thanks for the fact that at least representatives of three political groups in their statements have clearly known the Austrian federal army and the Austrian state defense. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is also important, because we have to bear in mind one thing: that every year almost 30 000 young Austrians, basic defenses, make a vow, namely the commitment to protect the Republic of Austria and its people, and if it is necessary to defend with the weapon. And these 30,000 young Austrians, but also the 26 000 Austrians, who have put themselves in the service of the national defence, in their professional career, we all have to thank and acknowledge. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand that it is not possible to establish a truly one-percent consensus at least in this commitment to the state defense and the Austrian federal army. And I am not aware of the fact that, as has been said by a speaker from the speaker's desk today, the German army is being dissuaded on a flat-rate basis, here we put suspicions into the room without any evidence. It is precisely with this that we add serious damage to these important intentions! Unfortunately, Mr Pilz is no longer here; neither was he in the committee where we had the opportunity to discuss various problems. If Mr Pilz here speaks of corruption over and over again, when it comes to arms orders, when he says that this is about party funding, I really ask him: If there are problems – he always says he has so much information – then please provide very clear evidence. Send this information! I will be the last person who will not follow these suspicions with all the hardness and consequence, and I will then put off the problem wherever it is entitled. So far, Mr Pilz, you have expressed suspicions, but only suspicions. I would remind you, for example, that you have accused the current President of Fassleven, my predecessor, here in the House for months that there have been dubious arms stores in the sale of stormguns. I have now looked at this matter carefully – you know, we had a question meeting here a few weeks ago – and all these accusations have been resolved in sound and smoke. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Every institution – and therefore, of course, the Austrian Federal Army and also the Minister of Defense – must always be critical and, of course, above all, the criticism of the representatives of the people. But you should also keep in mind this criticism and ask whether you do not cause serious damage to the security interests of Austria with an unjustified criticism, with a flat-rate evasion of this important institution and ultimately to the security interests of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaál! I take your criticism very seriously what the national defence budget is about. But when your group evaluates the 2000 defence budget, I see some intensifications. Mr Platter has already mentioned this: You have criticized the reduction in the national defence budget here. I can still remember that at the first reading of the budget, a 6-billion gift for the defence of the state was also spoken of by this speaker. Mr Gaál! I've been looking very intensively for this gift, but I haven't found it. Maybe it was lost somewhere on the post! If former Minister of Finance Edlinger, who spoke of this gift, could tell me where I find it, then I would be very grateful to him. We could use this 6 billion schilling for the Austrian federal army very well! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to raise another point here. If we all agree that we have to make available to the Austrian federal army those funds necessary to fulfil the tasks for Austria, I ask you to renounce the expenditure and expenditure for the defence of the country always to face other important tasks and expenditures! It is not the question of whether to make social expenditure or to provide for the security of the country, but these are two independent, important and indispensable measures! Both for one and the other, the public must make sufficient resources available. It is also not the question whether to abolish the fire brigade or the police if there is a budget scarcity, but we also agree that both institutions have different tasks, but are essential for us and for society. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And as it is necessary for the social state to be safeguarded in the future, we must also ensure that the security of the country is not at risk both internally and externally. Ladies and gentlemen! The question has also been raised again and again – even earlier in the debates –: What is this money used for? Will the right procurement projects be implemented? Isn't the administration too inflated? What are the orders of the Austrian state defense? It is true that – and I have always regretted this – over the last ten years, unfortunately, it has not succeeded in focusing the fundamental security policy considerations on the new circumstances that, although the order situation for the Austrian federal army is defined in the federal constitution, this specific task cannot in reality rely on a clear security and defence doctrine that meets the new demands. That is why it was my concern, and that is why, in one of the last Council of Ministers meetings, I made an advance in this direction, that after many years – you have already said it – the last time the end of the 1970s was that a security debate was held here in the House, too, consistently – that we should finally put these tasks, including the security environment, on a clear position, on a clear foundation. That is why it is also the task of the Austrian Federal Government to develop a new Security and Defence Doctor. I am very grateful for the fact that there are today also resolutions from the National Council in this direction. I can, of course, assure you – including you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition – that I am very keen to bring the national consensus we have so painfully missed in security and defence policy in these discussions on the subject of security and defence doctrines. Mr Gaál! You have criticized that no party representatives from your party are involved in this expert commission. If you look at the composition of the Commission, you will notice that not even the Minister of Defence is there. I have deliberately and for good reason refrained from holding the presidency there, for there has already been too much party policy in these areas, on the question of security and defence policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now we, the political decision-makers, the experts working on the problems of security and defence policy on a daily basis are to prepare the basis for the decisions, unimpeded by all party-political influence. Then we are all invited to discuss these bases of decision and to take all the necessary decisions for the future together. We also want to strike the issue of the military system with the expert committee. It makes no sense to discuss a military system, to discuss military structures before making the basic decisions in security and defence policy. The military system and the question of a membership of the alliance are also not self-evident. It is not the goal of NATO membership. It can also be a freedom of alliance not self-evident, but we all have the task of choosing the best way to fulfil the only purpose of the German army and security policy, namely to guarantee the security, independence and freedom of Austria in the long term. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this area, I really would ask you to take all the party political and ideological suffrages. There is no red, green, blue or black security policy, but there can only be security policy that best meets this task of ensuring the security of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! You have addressed two important areas in your debates: On the one hand, these are foreign operations, on the other hand, assistance on the border between Burgenland and disaster situations. This will be two very important priorities of the tasks of the Austrian federal army in the future. We are – and we can be proud of it – if you consider the size of the German army, if you look at the size of Austria, at the top of the countries, which show solidarity with the crisis hosts, with the injured population throughout Europe, but also around the world. I believe that we can be proud of this, and we should also thank and acknowledge our soldiers, who are in service as important ambassadors of the Republic. [[Complaints with the liberals]] In more than 17 regions Austrian soldiers are employed. Mr Gaál! You said I wanted to save here. This is not a question of saving. I have made it clear during the budgetary negotiations that in the original projects of the Minister of Finance, namely to reduce the national defence budget by 2 billion schilling, these important operations abroad would be at risk and would no longer be eligible for funding. However, very hard negotiations have succeeded in reducing these first targets to a half-tolerable level. Therefore, as you have said, the defense budget has not been reduced by billions, but "only" by 500 million schilling. Bad enough, I say quite openly, but that was precisely the framework conditions for which not we – and not me – are responsible, but we have agreed to reorganise the difficult budget we have taken over. That is why, unfortunately, it is necessary to budget as little as possible in all areas. But, Mr Gaál, it is also possible with this emergency budget to secure these important tasks of the Federal Army for 2000. However, it is obviously also necessary if, in future, we are organizing security policy in a task-oriented way, that we also clearly keep in mind the objectives of these foreign operations. It has agreed with the Austrian Federal Government – and I believe the great opposition party too – that we are fully involved in building a common security and defence policy and such structures within the framework of the European Union. We need to define clearly this year and define to what extent and for what types of operations the Austrian Federal Army can make available to troops within the framework of the European Union. Since, as I have already said, we are already setting very large quotas for foreign operations across Europe and we cannot extend them without limit because of our staff structure, we must, of course, ask ourselves to the extent that we are engaged in these highly qualified operations, on the other hand, missions that we have successfully implemented for 20 or 25 years, and consider whether other countries which have only been able to participate in such international operations in recent years can be more involved in these areas than they have been in the past. So this has less to do with the budgetary requirements than with a meaningful focus on new objectives, where, as I think, we will all find a great consensus. I recognize that, if we are to understand a deepening of the idea of Europe, the issues of defence policy must be of great importance. There is solidarity in Europe only if we also express that, if a Member State of the European Union is in military jeopardy, the whole of the European Union will come to the aid of that State. That is why our intention to include a guarantee of assistance in the EU Treaty is not to enter into a military alliance, but to actually put this European spirit of solidarity into practice and to put it on paper. I believe that this will be an important goal for Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We will be professionalising our concept for foreign operations this year and focusing on these new circumstances. In particular, as regards the rapid availability of forces, it is currently very difficult to implement these objectives, particularly in the context of the use of disasters. I recall the very successful use of our soldiers in Mozambique, where the Austrian army saved thousands of lives when it came to providing good drinking water. But we had to wait ten days until we were able to send the soldiers to the operating room because it was quite simply a minimum time needed to ensure the appropriate vaccination protection. It is therefore necessary to define clearly which soldiers, which troops go into what kind of operation. They can already be prepared for it, they can practice it, and this vaccination can also be ensured in advance. These are things that we must also pay attention to in the future. Next point: the question of the use of disasters and the use of assistance at the border. I think we all confess that it is an important task of the Austrian federal army to help where other civil institutions can no longer be able. But I would like to point out and stress that this is an assistance commitment, i.e. that the original competence and responsibility lie in the respective civil areas and that the German army intervenes when it is absolutely necessary. When reference is made to budget shortages, I must resist the fact that over the last ten years, these assistance missions – for example, border control, but also foreign foreign operations – have increased exorbitantly in importance, but also in volume, without reflecting more of the tasks of the national defence budget. If we speak today of an emergency budget in the area of the federal army, we must be clear that the Austrian federal army did not have to carry a savings package, not an emergency budget, but ten, 20, even if not 30 or 40 savings budgets. Mr Gaál! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not an upgrade, it is not a question of giving the German army fifty billion now, but it is only a matter of saving at least the funds for the costs that the Austrian federal army takes over for other institutions, and thus – because we can implement this much cheaper and very efficiently – the economy also saves billions from running the national defence budget. These 1.5 to 2 billion schillings, which make up this year, ladies and gentlemen, would be enough, at least in the next few years, to implement the necessary procurement projects. At the beginning of my remarks, I stressed that it must be clear to us that it is a matter of soldiers, of Austrian citizens whom we have to support. It should therefore also be borne in mind that, as a politician of the Republic of Austria, we have the responsibility to give our soldiers the best possible equipment, the best possible equipment and training necessary to protect our soldiers' lives as effectively as possible and to enable them to do their best. That, I think, should be all our credo and our goal. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is said again and again: Yes, for what these billions, there is no more threat there! – Ladies and gentlemen! If someone claims that there is no threat – even colleague Pilz has spoken of "no threat at present" – you always have to say: Who can guarantee that this state – that thanks to God there is no direct military threat against Austria at the moment – is so even in five, ten or 20 years? Who, then, takes responsibility if the one who guarantees us today has erred? I could not take on this responsibility, but it is our responsibility to ensure that the Austrian state defense, the Austrian federal army, if this case, which we all do not want to hope for, occurs, is also prepared to be prepared and to ensure the independence and security of our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you ever ask someone in an avalanche area who is waiting for a federal army helicopter to come and pick him out, or in a floody area waiting for the Austrian federal army to protect the houses there in conjunction with the civilian forces, or who is waiting in any region of Europe to be evacuated from a crisis area – and we see it again and again today – by soldiers, he does not ask if one could have spent the money better on other things, but he says: Help me, get me out of here, protect my life, protect my health! – It is written to all those in the parent book who are always trying to face expenditure on the security of the country with other important tasks that must also be fulfilled. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, this Federal Government has undertaken to create, with thoughtful and very cautiously clear conditions in the Austrian security and state defence policy, and to give the Austrian federal army, in line with the budgetary possibilities, but also very clearly task-oriented, the means in the future, which will be necessary in order to be able to fulfil the tasks set. That won't be easy. We have now seen that the budget projects will be difficult over and over again. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am looking to all of you to support me – and finally, the Austrian National Council decides the budget – that in addition to all the important tasks in the social field, we also do what is necessary for our soldiers so that they can all fulfil their tasks for us. Let us also show them that we are not behind them, but before them, pointing them a positive way into the future of Austrian security policy and defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17966	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e17996	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that political programs in the past were often not even worth the paper on which they were written is a fact that the German army is an investment ruin for the new government. A third is the still known demands of the opposition from the previous legislative period. That's what someone says who needs to know how the Austrian federal army is. This is said by the Austrian Officers' Society in the last issue of its newspaper on the government programme of the Federal Government in office. – I may make this available to you, Minister of State. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: I read it!]] The new Federal Minister is truly not easy to do, nor is he to envy his task. When he became a minister and probably had no contact with the Minister of Finance, he promised the German army golden times – golden times promised! –, promises that the budget for the Austrian federal army will increase. Only: His Minister of Finance did not adopt the state-owned attitude of Mr Grasser's predecessor, namely former Minister of Finance Edlinger. [[Abg. Boy: What? That's where the chickens laugh, my colleague.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is left of this announcement of the "golden times"? - Cat-jammer is left, cat-jammer. Even the Minister of Defense spoke of an inheritance that gives little cause for joy. Yes, of whom did he take over this inheritance? [[Federal Minister Scheibner: From Edlinger!]] Who, then, was his predecessor, who left him an inheritance in which he had no joy? In these days it is so often spoken of wastefulness, of debts that Mr Financier of the new Federal Government would have left behind. The defence budget is an important indication of how the ministers of the Austrian People's Party worked in this government. They usually pretend they weren't there at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A whole army budget, well over 8 billion schilling, has been left by the Lord Predecessor as an inheritance to his successor in debt. Over 8 billion schillings have left his successor on predispositions! It is not quite easy, I give him the right, Mr Federal Minister, but it can really be a lucky case for the federal army that it is Herbert Scheibner, who has received this place, and if he acts as he has done as chairman of the committee, this policy can probably also find our support. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – If he does not deviate from what he has done as chairman of the committee! But we cannot go along with it if its predecessor's policy continues. This is simple and simply not possible. Fassleven wasn't a lucky case for the federal army. But that's what those who are in the federal army know best. He always led the resort as ÖAAB-Bundesobmann and not as Minister of Defense, ladies and gentlemen! And this, of course, has affected the German army – also to read in this newspaper. The criticism of the officers is to be read when it came to the procurement of helicopters. All those involved in procurement can confirm, and the Court of Auditors has repeatedly demonstrated this for many years – as a red thread has drawn this from the Court of Auditors' reports – that the predecessor of the current Minister has made serious mistakes in planning and in carrying out arms procurement. So, in this way, it can be an advantage that another minister now directs the department. The former Minister and current President, who is currently also chairing, has downgraded the German army, ladies and gentlemen. You have to say that clearly and clearly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was already quite negligent under the Fassl evening ministry. If you send young people, who really – and here I give the Minister’s right – for this country – sometimes using their lives, with such equipment through the country – I now speak of the fleet, of the 40-50-year-old trucks with which they are still transported, then this is negligent. And for all this, the predecessor of the Federal Minister Scheibner is responsible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If now, even from our ranks, reports have been made, statements in that direction, that a rain of money has now broken into the federal army, then one must say: That's not true! We would like to admit that, unfortunately, we must admit: The rain of money has not broken into anyone over the federal army, on the contrary – on the contrary!, and that is what we criticise, as our interlocutor Toni Gaál has done – this defense budget for the first time provides the federal army with significantly less money than it used to be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That, I believe, is not a good development, it is not a good start for you, Minister of State! [[Abg. Young: No easy start!]] You should have given the Minister of Finance a little more evidence that you had at least gotten what Edlinger was always willing to give to the German army. You didn't do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18127	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18148	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite remarkable how my previous speakers, Mr Leikam and also Mr Gaál, here with their body language and with their whole personality have actually expressed their inner opinion that SPÖ would like to join this budget approach, but unfortunately, for oppositional reasons, they were forced to reject it. But it is only from the statements that they will make themselves very strong for this federal army in the future, and together with us the federal army will face a good future. We would like that very much. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Pilz has done exactly what we expected from him: He put himself here at the speaker's desk and threw all kinds of people, sprayed with dirt, started in the mud, and then, of course, escaped. But I can somehow understand him, for the following reason: It's probably the federal army a little in the way. If the federal army did not exist, those groups who were arrested of his basic ideology could probably develop a little more freely and probably their traces in the Republic of Austria – and these are not good traces! – make it clearer to show up. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Army is in a difficult situation, and this is not to be be beautified, even if the handover of office, as we have taken out the media, has been carried out with military honours and very neatly. The entrance to the "days of the open door" is enormous, the interest of the population, the sympathy of the population for the German army is enormous. That is what the applause shows with the forebeimarians, with the Angelobungen; the family are always impressed and touched. Traditional care – and I think we need that too – is a priority. There is the stroke, it is also a little bit of the magic of the Montur at the Garnisons balls to feel. But because of that, it cannot be said that everything is all right. – No, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot to do! It has already been mentioned that the equipment and equipment by far do not correspond to the state of the art and the state we would like for our soldiers. On the other hand, the German army is in a field of tension: on the one hand, the will to help as quickly as possible and as efficiently as possible, for example in natural disasters such as floods or avalanches, on the other hand, the inadequate equipment, in some cases also limited ready-to-use equipment, if you think only of the helicopters that have already been addressed. I believe that some times the soldiers would really rather help and really be fully committed to the people concerned, but precisely because of the lack of equipment and equipment they cannot do to the desired extent. In this context, I would like to thank all our soldiers, who are working for the benefit of their home country, for the benefit of the people of Germany and abroad and for the honour of the Republic of Austria. You really deserve the thanks of this Parliament too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's a lot of problems, we don't want to talk to them either. So far, a lot has been pushed to the long bank. - Just a few keywords. Only if you look at the age structure of the cadres, you can see that there is an unhealthy age structure. There will be arrangements to be made. Of course, a structural reform will be necessary, which has already been mentioned by colleagues. A step has already been taken – a concern by me – through the transfer of the Federal Building Administration II to the Federal Army. I believe that this will lead to a significant improvement in the organisation and to a better use of synergies in the administrative field. It will be necessary to improve the training of soldiers and the cadres, because it would be important that the soldiers also take home experience and knowledge after the finished military service, that they can say: I have learned something there that I can also need in my civil life, I have become a strong, mature personality there, I am happy to have been with this federal army, and I will also be enthusiastic about my service as part of the arms exercises. If you look at all these impederabilias that exist, I must say that it is gratifying that the motivation of the troop is still so good and so expandable. But – and this has already been suggested – it is urgent to give the federal army a new security doctor, with precise and responsible analysis of the potential for threats and an assessment of the situation, or, if you want to, a new mission or a new mission. Only such a security doctor can and must be the basis for a new, well-organized, efficient national defence that fully meets the security needs of the citizens, ensures the security of our home country and can also fully fulfil all constitutional orders that have been given to the federal army. This doctrine is then the organization, structure, equipment and armament. Only so, ladies and gentlemen, so and only so! – you can address this problem. In this sense, of course, I join with my whole heart the motion for a resolution tabled. Dear Herbert, Minister Scheibner! The longest path begins with the first steps – the first steps are taken. I wish the Austrian federal army and you personally in the performance and fulfillment of your task much success in the sense of our people and also in the sense of our security policy and for the benefit of our federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18226	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18248	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! It is really difficult, after this almost moving, sentimental speech, to come back to the material foundations of the budget, but some of the comments that have so far liked motivate me to think a little bit more about some questions. The Minister, in his very, very long, detailed opinion, called for a broad consensus across all parties with regard to the German army, but he did not say how this should be done. [[Abg. Young: You are invited to cooperate!]] I suspect that it will be just as it is, unfortunately, always handled by this coalition that this coalition is going to have something to do with the other parties, without any means of participation in advance, without getting the documents for a wise participation really in time. [[Abg. Kiss: You were not even present in committee! What do you know?]] [[Abg. Kiss: You have no idea!]] – Mr Colleague! Listen to me, then you'll see what you can comment on with an idea or a lack of thought. [[Abg. Kiss: If you can discuss, don't come!]] [[Abg. Young: You were the objector!]] The crucial question is really about the future. This motion for a resolution, which has been tabled here: to discuss a new defence doctrine and set up for Austria, is an interesting approach, not to be swept away from the table from the outset. However, if the backgrounds, also set in the budget, are clarified more precisely in these approaches, then it can be seen that At the end of the day, it is a matter of establishing by means of a new doctrine that Austria will become a full-fledged NATO member. [[Abg. Boy: So this is a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Where do you read this?]] I have written down what the Minister just said. He also said, when he called for a new doctrine, that it was to be clarified this year to what extent action should be taken within the framework of the European Union. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: This has nothing to do with the doctrine!]] At the end of his speech, he clearly acknowledged a European defence policy. [[Abg. Young: Do you know the difference between the EU and NATO?]] And he - which is so common in your ranks - has defined security exclusively militaryly. [[Abg. Young: Where was NATO now? Hot steam!]] This does not help to prevent the talk of crisis prevention, social security, which avoids conflicts. No, no, no, [[Abg. Young: Tell us where something about NATO was!]] Behind that lies the old, ancient military thinking that one looks at conflicts until they become acute, and then reacts with military means. [[Abg. Young: They say the untruth!]] A modern security policy for Europe would allow an independent role of Austria, taking account of NATO. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: It would be good for you to join the committee!]] It is not dependent on the fact that – what has already happened again and what has so often ended fatally for all peoples – security is only defined in military terms and, above all, solidarity is defined only in military terms. I think this is one of the biggest historical errors to be repeated. [[Abg. Jung: Now tell us where that was said! No one said that!]] A crucial question, however, needs to be discussed here again. On the other hand, some speakers and also the Minister have taken a stand against the balance between social expenditure and military expenditure. What's the big deal with this dogma? – There is a budget for both. Of course, there is the approach, as we have heard, that the interception hunters should somehow be financed out of budget – as has not yet been clarified. But if one chooses a reduction in social expenditure and a well-dominated, well-padded budget for the military, it is with fug and right to define it as ideological, as a decision that has a certain ideological background that social issues are very clearly subordinated to military issues. If you are not willing to see and accept this, then you want to spread to the people in this debate with these conjurations of a taboo for all military expenditures sand in the eyes that you have clearly decided to have a very old-fashioned security concept, which is primarily and only military ways in mind, then no longer allow civil prevention measures due to the resulting budget need. [[Abg. Boy: That's weird what you're telling us!]] – You call it "sudden," Mr. Cot! I know thinking in the future is relatively difficult. There you have to clear your head, as you have to open up new ideas, you can't stay in old NATO doctrines, because you have to take into account an independent role for Austria, which would offer Austrian neutrality, so to speak, directly on a silver tablet and not only have more in mind to be allowed to sit at the big table of NATO if possible. [[Abg. Young: Tell me where the Minister said something about a NATO accession! Do it! Think about what you're talking about!]] It has always been in the main committee to treat these joint exercises of the Austrian federal army with other military units, such as Sweden and so on and so on. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Sweden! Finland!]] It is interesting to see that – once you have seen a whole series of them – that some of these bets in their need are already to be questioned. I now think only of the ice rescue you need to practice in Sweden and you can't practice with us, and the like. [[Abg. Kiss: That's what you're saying as a Tyrolean?]] – That's why I don't want you to do that in Sweden, you can do that "with us dahoam a", and unfortunately – unfortunately, unfortunately, I tell you – too often! [[Abg. Young: I'm saying, "Sudden!"]] If I look at the further expenditure on the military budget alone through the State's plans, then of course I also recognise very clear ideological decisions to do with the ability to understand preventive security policy only in military terms. [[Abg. Kiss: Are you talking about Austria?]] There will be a number of millions of software and computer costs to actually monitor and finance all the critics of the military, as it is planned. [[Abg. Kiss: Which country are you talking about?]] Is the democratic understanding of security policy or purely military thinking, which reminds us of very, very dark times when we wanted to push all of this into the hands of the military? [[Abg. Kiss: I don't know what country you live in, I live in Austria! You're worse than the fungus!]] We do not agree with this, ladies and gentlemen. We reject these practices! There is a clear separation between police tasks and military tasks, and we insist on this separation, which we consider extremely important. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Who said something else?]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He vehemently denied that there was a "gold rain" for the military; earlier there was once a "gold hood", but that only by the way. He meant that it was more or less an emergency budget, with which the Austrian federal army wants to or must buy the interception hunters. I am sorry, Mr Platter, but that this is a debate on an emergency budget, no one can understand it, apart from you and other military fans. There you really stand relatively alone and in the rain when you try to explain this to anyone who does not come from your dark circle. If you have thought that this is in line with other socialist states, which would also uplift those who would have military approaches, you have learned only one thing today, namely that socialism as an explanation for or against military expenditure is the wrong approach and there is something else than these ideologies in military policy. [[Abg. Platter: You have no idea! We only had 2 days to think.]] You shot down the explanation approach yourself. You need to keep a little watchful as you continue to argue if you want to take the Social Democrats for any defence budgets into duty. Finally, a note on the real estate of the Austrian federal army. It seems to me to be quite interesting that, in contrast to all other ministries, there has been an emergency-gross for any other interception hunters or any other uplifting measures that do not necessarily have to do with the Austrian federal army. The Ministry of Defence is the only ministry where this is the case. [[Abg. Kiss: You have a trauma, that is, catch hunters! I'm not a doctor, but it's obvious you have a trauma!]] You will not be able to imagine that I mean that you should, as it were, overwrite the barracks of the BIG, but there are essential and much more real estates that I am talking about here and which are of course equally familiar and familiar to you as an expert in the scene. In conclusion: I would like to enter into a debate on security policy. [[Abg. Platter: You should do this in the committee once!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Speak, don't refuse!]] I would like to enter into this discourse if security is not only understood as military, if such a thing as crisis prevention begins to play a role in your heads and if they are not only destroyed by the noise of the interception hunters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18661	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18682	Mr President, and the most successful minister of defence. Federal Minister! High house! For a moment, Mrs. Lichtenberger, I meant that I would have to address your remarks. I wonder that with so much ignorance you can stand here at the speaker's desk for so long and talk about something you really have very, very little idea. [[Rejoicing and congratulation with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: If your word message only serves to qualify, it is better to end it immediately!]] But you certainly also have your qualities, which you just haven't shown here in the house. But I'm glad to see them once. I thought you were once a councillor, and I was actually expecting more from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That was a weak attack now! He was really plump!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot about the budget, it has been talked about the need for the defence and security doctor. It's really a narrow and lean budget, I'd say once. But that's not about it. The Federal Government has taken action to prepare the debt in order to reduce the budget deficit. Mr Anton and Mr Anton from the Social Democratic Party! Both belong – no comparison! The more serious is Anton Gaál. I must say that I am actually glad that the new Central Secretariat of the Social Democrats does not have the say, otherwise we would have been able to make 6 billion shillings less available for national defence, and that would really be the crash. But thank God, dear Toni, you're still here and keep the German army the bar and know that we really need more finances to fulfill the tasks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The German army has never had it easily in this Republic. Even today, speakers have again spoken of the abolition of the federal army, of the non-necessity of the federal army, the belief that foreign policy can replace the federal army, and some believe that "Bundesheer light" can compare "Cola light" with "Cola light" and more. The Socialist and former Socialist Finance Ministers have all adhered to it: as little as possible to the budget as possible, in order not to provide the Federal Army with what it needs to ensure security and national defence for our Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: And the ÖVP never agreed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! And despite these low budgets, the federal army – and for this I would admire him – has always done it, to fulfil its tasks and to carry out notable tasks. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who has decided on these budgets?]] – For this I would like to thank and thank all the Austrian People’s Party, from the Ministry to the last man in the German army, who makes himself available for the matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to draw attention to the fact that, in the future, the border use on the border between Burgenland-Hungarian border will naturally be re-founded. Since September 1990, our federal army has been standing on the Hungarian-burgen border and has spent 5.5 billion Schilling on it to date – including 1999. The Federal Government needed this money. It has also been pointed out that the Austrian Federal Army has been issuing its business card in foreign use for many decades, which can be seen. These foreign operations in the humanitarian field, in disasters on behalf of democracy and the rule of law and the protection of human rights have a great and high tradition in Austria, and we recognize the quality of our federal soldiers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] These efforts, whether they have been done in Syria, on the Golan, in Cyprus or recently in ex-Yugoslavia, have really been violent. Of course, we have in the future to reconsider our tasks, and I am pleased that today's motion for a resolution has been tabled to discuss and adopt a new Security and Defence Doctor, a Security and Defence Doctor, who will also fulfil Petersberg's tasks, i.e. to fulfil, in addition to humanitarian tasks and rescue operations, peacekeeping and peacekeeping measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, in order not to repeat everything that has been said to reasonable ones by the speakers of the Austrian People's Party, but also to our government partner, the Freedom Party... – Please? [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you! Thank you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Thank you!]] You're welcome. I am pleased that you will thank me, I hope, also, Mrs Colleague. In conclusion: It is very important that we first and foremost put the state finances in order and also equip the federal army with appropriate means to ensure that the security of our state – and we need it! – but the security of Europe can also be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18824	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e18845	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is already a very interesting debate that we are having today. [[Abg. Amon: So far!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'll start with Minister Scheibner. Perhaps I would like to take a short step back and raise the question: What does the Austrian federal army feel about? What do Mr Schüssel and Mr Haider think of the Austrian Federal Army when they first proposed that a certain Mr. Kabas be Minister for State Defense? - That's all I'm saying. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I too do not agree with the fact that you are truly competent. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Saviour.]] This has often been demonstrated in the Committee. I have not kept this to myself in committee, nor will I do it today: Her policy was predictable. Ladies and gentlemen! It is surprising today when we are dealing with the speed of troubleshooting. I have the impression that overnight the state of the army has been completely silent by the leadership of Werner Fassleven. Mr Jung has made a real effort, as he has promised in the Committee, and we have heard a defensive-history talk. He meant that the ministry had to be rehabilitated. – End of criticism. Mr President. Minister Scheibner even issued a persil license and meant: All accusations have dissolved in sound and smoke. All the accusations, Minister! [[Abg. Young: So this is not worthy of you, Mr. Colleague!]] 10 years of FPÖ policy and discussions with Minister Fassleven have dissolved in sound and smoke. But that's not an individual case. We experience similar things in the Ministry of the Interior. There, too, the problems have been dealt with by a change of ministers, Mr Kiss. How did it go in my district in Lower Austria? The border was open like an Emmental, according to Pröll and Wilfing. We had a toboggan in there. A security risk was said to have been the then Minister of the Interior. And it's been pasted: The army has to get to the border! What happened? – A new minister, and since then there has been peace. Our security problem is solved. We don't hear anything from Pröll, we don't hear from Wilfing anymore. We don't need any more army on the border. It's that simple. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I shall now come to the specific questions. Federal Minister! Has the new Minister of the Interior requested the army for the Czech border, as required by the old Minister of the Interior, or has he not? [[Abg. Young: But he didn't pay it, but he put the money in!]] Federal Minister! Their predecessors have thinned the soldiers on March, with the reason that it is not necessary over winter to have such strong troops. Have you strengthened the troops again in spring? Federal Minister! Have you, in fact, tried how you have told us several times – and it would be the easiest thing to read the budget speech of Mr Scheibner from last year here, that would be very cheerful here in the house, as it is all the different today – to save the costs for the assistant missions? [[Abg. Boy: Then do it!]] The value is shown not only by the signs but also by the words. The Minister of Finance was only worth 56 words in his budget speech. In the Government Declaration, it was 71 words worth the federal army of the new government. [[Abg. Boy: You have a lot of time!]] [[Abg. Kiss: You are a word clock or a word counter!]] But since I believe, as I said at the outset, Mr Federal Minister, that you have been transferred from the Bank of Deputies to the Bank of Ministers with your principles, I can remind you of some quotations. For example, in the debate on the Declaration of Government you said – and you repeated it today – that "it will be a special concern for you to hold an open dialogue here in Parliament and to inform it in good time". ==References====External links== July you have addressed the insufficient situation, on buses in battle, on trucks that collapse. How did you answer my questions on this subject? It is necessary to distance itself from a detailed breakdown, because conclusions could be drawn on the willingness to use the federal army. The same with regard to a question about the vehicle stock: military secrecy, please understand, no answer. What did honourable Member Scheibner say in such cases, e.g. on 5 May? November 1998: "Mr. Federal Minister! They say it'll do everything. I ask you: When? ... But just as irresponsible are questions as you have given them to the honourable Member of this House. ... That's how you can't deal with us in this house! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] " Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I hope that we can agree on an open and honest discussion here too. Finally: The budget is the implemented political will. You have repeatedly said quite strongly what a concern it is to you. How does the budget look? Under Edlinger 268 million Shilling for Arms Exercises, under Grass and Scheibner 110 million Schilling for Arms Exercises: minus 158 million Schilling! [[Abg. Young: There he put the last money on the market, which he didn't hear anymore!]] For the voluntary arms exercises, the approach has decreased from 38 million to 18 million schilling: minus 20 million schilling. [[Abg. Young: 39 billion more debts due to the missing monetary policy of the Minister! That's where we'd have rehabilitated the federal army twice! Twice rehabilitated! You know that very well! Now you're really applying a little thick!]] And in civil service, I can really see your handwriting: We don't want civil service anymore! The Minister said that the barracks gates were open. But it has shortened the approach only for monthly and service allowances from 572 million to 491 million schilling. He can't even afford to pay more presenters. [[Abg. Young: 39 billion additional, only by missing foreign currency policy!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I'm just excited with what keywords You will be setting up the budget in the autumn this year when Grasser is likely to make even less money available.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19036	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of SPÖ) If we should not have taken over your debts, it was better for all of us! But we'll take you, 'cause you were totally overwhelmed with your shit! You'll realize that!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] I call Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19077	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has tabled a resolution on a new pension scheme. Mr Gaál! I can tell you that this concern for the recognition of military service as a pensionable replacement or contribution time will be the content of the Federal Government's pension reform. The motion for a resolution is therefore inadequate. However, you are welcome to agree to the pension reform, if that corresponds to your ideas. Ladies and gentlemen! In its programme, the Federal Government has established a clear commitment to European security policy and to an efficient federal army. I should like to remind you shortly of the following five points from the statement of Government. First: Military defence is an essential and essential element in ensuring peace, freedom, security and stability for Austria and its citizens. Secondly, The Federal Government will therefore make every effort to further increase the performance of the German army and to strengthen the importance of society. Thirdly, In the future, international solidarity services, disaster aid and assistance services will be the priority in addition to the territorial defence tasks. [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you read everything now, or do you have anything else to say?]] Fourth: The German army must be prepared for all these tasks, including participation in the entire spectrum of European crisis management, stability and European assistance tasks. And fifth, This includes participation in multinational associations for actions of the international crisis management of the Eurocorp, as well as participation in the emerging EU military structures. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a clear defence policy position. And that the Greens do not agree with that, Mr Oillinger, is more likely to be correct. The fact that the implementation of this programme also suffers from the disastrous budgetary situation that we had to take over from the previous government is on a different sheet, a sheet that unfortunately we also need to read from God. That is why the Federal Minister also speaks of an emergency budget, which unfortunately also forces God to save. It is intended to be divided not only in the training and further training of the soldiers, but above all – and really – in the administration of the central offices and in other levels of administration of the federal army. Therefore – or even so – it succeeds in ensuring the purchase of transport helicopters, the replacement in the vehicle area, the continuation of the Mech package, the launch of airspace surveillance aircraft and the improvement of man equipment. Despite the fact that there will be no change for the time being in the Federal Government's peace and action organisation, the Federal Minister has taken two main steps: Firstly, a Commission is being set up to examine the introduction of a professional army, a voluntary army, and secondly, the national defence plan is being re-established. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! If you want to do so, then today you should agree to our motion for a resolution on this subject. The National Defence Plan, the newly created Defense Doctrine and the Plan for the Implementation of a Voluntary Army will show the further steps for the Austrian Federal Army and Security Policy with the budget of 2001. Here, I repeat what many previous speakers of the coalition parties have said, to make joint efforts. The aim of the Federal Government will be to reconcile the tasks and priorities of the Federal Government to be defined in the new Security Doctorate with the means provided for them. That must be the ambition of this federal government, because then it would be the first Federal Government of the Second Republic, which could finally close the line between order and means. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, over the past 14 years, this shear has opened up to God without responsibility. For many years, the former governments have neglected national defence in Austria. A new policy is in need: on the one hand, at international level. This government is committed to establishing a European security system and will have to overcome the disagreement in the previous government, which has not even managed to present an option report, a common security policy. Secondly, this government is also committed to making the German army more efficient through urgently needed structural reforms. This serves as a clear focus on a voluntary army and the administrative reform announced by the Federal Minister. I'll get you together. Mr Scheibner, Federal Minister, takes on a nice job, but a difficult inheritance. Herbert Scheibner will eliminate the burden of this heritage and build a credible security policy during this legislative period. He will have the support of our liberal Members.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19124	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19145	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! I do not assume that the army's budget – and once again reduced by your Minister of Finance – has led you to the statement this afternoon in the "Time in the Picture" programme. [[Abg. Boy: There you have to laugh yourself! It's not easy...!]] I'm just gonna give it back the way I read it. From the APA comes the following message: Scheibner wants women for the militia on a voluntary basis, planned from 1. January 2000. [[Abg. Young: Are you against equality?]] - No, not at all. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: What? "2000" is there?]] - 2001, excuse me! Minister! Work as a professional soldier: yes, because it linked the legal possibility of getting out of the profession as a soldier. It was also created the legal possibility for karenz. [[Abg. Young: Karenz is something other than karenz vacation!]] - For a karenz vacation. Men's militia in the current form is not voluntary, and women's militia will be safely removed by the Constitutional Court on the grounds of inequality. [[Abg. Young: That depends on what used to be...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you not believe that the Minister...?]] – Mrs Colleague! You can also speak, but don't interrupt me constantly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: But you are very sensitive!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I interrupted you for the first time!]] We believe, Minister, that the obligation of military service for women will be introduced through the back door in this way, and we reject an obligation on women from the SPÖ! [[Federal Minister Scheibner: No one wants that!]] [[Abg. Fischl: Do you also have a degree of service?]] Minister! Another proposal would be – I know about what is going on again and again in the discussions – that soldiers who have left the profession want to have the opportunity to get used again after a few years. My proposal would be: Why do we need a volunteer of the militia? Why can't you or do you not want to realize these wishes due to temporary service relations to the army? – That would be an inspiration from our side. A few more points which I have discussed with you in committee. I asked you about the Working Group on Equal Opportunities whether women were present. If I have it right in my head, you have answered: no. I think it is not possible for the future for equal treatment issues... – This is not ridiculous, Mr. Colleague, but that I mean seriously! - No, that wasn't ridiculous either! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: But what you say is it! That with the Parnigoni was really ridiculous!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that women should also be represented in this working group. There are women in the army. It is, I believe, a question of the organization to include these women there. If I remember correctly, you have answered regarding contact women in the services – in this direction your answer –: Is also badly possible or goes badly because few women... – Soldiers, excuse me! [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Soldiers!]] Contact women for soldiers, this is also bad, because there are too few. [[Abg. Young: There's been a long time, not only for soldiers! Throughout the ministry! You should be better informed! Throughout the ministry!]] – The ministry is not the unity outside. If there is, it's good. I would suggest that if she does not exist – everything you say is not always right – that you make yourself strong for the fact that contact women, i.e. female soldiers, are used in their work so that they can also be available for other garrisons as a contact point for women. [[Abg. Young: They meet regularly in training!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19373	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19394	Mr President. Federal Minister! As a Corporal of the Reserve I am glad... [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – Former instructor in Kaisersteinbruch, a truly feared institution, Mr. Federal Minister! Dangerous! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I have to say it was a good time for me. But I don't think it was a bad time for the basic defenses, they learned a lot from me. As a former corporal of the reserve, I say, I am pleased to be able to speak on this issue, especially when I hear proposals made today by the Minister – and I support his initiative – that women are not only allowed to work on a voluntary basis in the army, but also give them the opportunity to military service. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Corporal were you?]] Why not? Where's there a problem? Mrs Hagenhofer! I can't follow you in your argument. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: such a surprise!]] But we will still have time and opportunity to talk about it. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Go, go, go, go, go, go, They're always afraid of everything that's coming. Preventively feared – this is your motto. Yeah, yeah, I know! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I do not hide that in this debate Mr Jung has given the tone, I liked it. This debate has gone very, very objectively, over long distances, only my colleague Pilz could not once again get used to pulling his mischievous defamation trail here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the Greens, but, Mr Corporal!]] – It was, wasn’t it? Did you listen? I've been listening. Because he has not been able to break it up again in his consciously typical way, it is true that in our contributions to the debate, we are also saying exactly what is the matter. The fact is that in the SPÖ a group of delegates has an disturbed relationship with the state defense. That's obvious. That's what we know. This has also been the group that has for decades been concerned that this federal army has not been adequately taught. For the present state, with which Herbert Scheibner of course carries a heavy package on his shoulders as new Minister of Defence, SPÖ Finance Ministers have been responsible for the last 30 years, which, among other things, have also justified this state of the federal army. Don't forget that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And that a whole clump in the SPÖ has an disturbed relationship not only to military national defense, but also to the spiritual defense of the country, is equally obvious. I know that from experience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to offer my colleague Lichtenberger the discourse. She has come to the speaker's desk here, has given a long speech, but has never been seen in the National Defence Committee. But in the four-eye conversation she admitted: Next time I come, I'll inform myself. - That's the right way. I think she's capable of learning. She's also a teacher. Of course! Ladies and gentlemen! For the whole of the template it is to be said: We will, with Herbert Scheibneral's Minister of Defence, create a turnaround for the German army during this legislative period! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This ambitious programme is going on together, and I am confident that we will make it. And with this turnaround we will set exactly those measures that are necessary to give the young soldiers to our officers the feeling necessary in a republic when they swear the oath to this Republic, namely the feeling that politics stands with them and that the population stands with them. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] When I was allowed to vote ten years ago when it was about creating a provisional in Austria, namely the commitment of assistance to the Burgenland-Hungarian, to the Burgenland-Slovak and to the Burgenland-Slovenian border, no one at that time certainly thought in November 1990 that this proposal would last for a decade and would become a "duration" over this decade – in good Austrian terms. Without the Austrian federal army, this country would be – and I say it – more uncertain today. Without the Austrian federal army, the people in our country, especially in the border country, did not have the subjective sense of security they have thanks to the efforts of the federal army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If there are 2000 soldiers on the border, then the presence of these 2000 soldiers alone creates knowledge among people in the villages, with people on the border [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reheat]] Our Austrian army is to be expected day and night. – But then the fun stops there, too, when you place this federal army on a permanent and permanent basis on the basis of budgets that simply don’t keep. Therefore, with this turnaround, it must be shown exactly that ÖVP and FPÖ are going under Minister Herbert Scheibnerden, who is necessary to support the German army in order to take all the measures we all know are necessary for pro futuro, so that the soldiers, officers, base soldiers and militants also feel the policy is for them. And also the population in Austria must feel: Yes, politics is doing something. We want the German army in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19546	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19567	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been stressed several times that the federal army's budgetary problems are a difficult one. In fact, the situation is not rosy. Nevertheless, Mr Bundesminister, it is acknowledged – and I say this as an educational politician – that you have succeeded in giving you a very special appreciation within the defence budget, in particular in the field of education, education and training and in the ADV field. In part, the budget approaches have been doubled. High house! In my opinion, in recent years the Federal Government's school organisation has not kept pace with the restructuring measures within the German army, namely the reconstruction of the army. Finally, in 1992 the military force was reduced from 300 000 to 180 000 men, and in 1998 to 110 000 men or women. A number of changes have been made in the school-organisational area of the Federal Army in parallel. In this context, I would like to mention the establishment of a degree course at the MILAK in Wiener Neustadt. It is very gratifying to hear that on 19th and 20th. The first sponsor for soldiers will take place in the Theresian Military Academy on May 1. I would also like to pay tribute to our interlocutor Anton Gaáler. He was significantly involved in this development. He has constantly supported the development of this university. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The further development of the training systems in the German army is rather sparse and bulky and therefore needs a stronger boost. I think it is important to think about it, to push forward streams and reorganisations of the training structure concept. It also seems to be useful to think about the possibilities of pooling institutions, but this – and I am sure as an educational manager – is true to the premise of quality assurance and quality assurance of individual training offers. I would like to support the statements made by the Federal Minister for Education in so far as it is to be said that the ever-increasing and ever-changing requirements for the framework staff regarding their quality and professionalism are to be observed. It should also be noted that our soldiers are more involved in international tasks – whether they be peacekeeping or humanitarian operations. Increased foreign language skills, closer knowledge of the field of application, knowledge of different aid systems, IT skills are particularly important. Finally, it should also be noted that every training and training offer must in principle have in mind the tasks and challenges of the future. All this requires further professionalization of the cadre staff. I also suggest that foreign use and foreign experience should be essential elements of training and accountable career components. We do not exclude from the necessary structural measures the training, further education and training of managers, which is offered in both the secondary and the tertiary areas. Let me finish! Federal Minister! To you I would like to address another concern of the municipality of Imst in Tyrol. At the same time, this concern is the desire of many young people and their parents. It has developed an interesting model in the municipality of Imst – rather from an emergency. The German army has provided the then abandoned barracks in Imst of the Federal Trade Academy as a transitional quarter until it is restored. That's the case now. In the meantime, however, this barracks has developed into a training centre. The youth feels very comfortable there. The municipal council of the city of Imst voted unanimously in favour of further use of this site and set up an HTL and a technical university for computer science, telecommunications and data processing. I think we all know that currently there are no computer workers in Austria. I would like to ask you, on behalf of many interested people of the Imst Community, to give an open ear to this presence of the population and the community.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19630	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19652	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now that I was rushing down to the speaker's desk, some colleagues told me to tell the truth. – I’m always telling the truth! And I'm going to tell you all the truth about the state of the federal army today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, a few comments on the comments made by previous speakers: I am particularly pleased – I would like to express my highest consideration to Mr Gaál and my Carinthian colleague, Mr Leikam – that, in her responsibility as a Member of the Austrian Federal Army, they are also committed to the necessary measures. That is very pleasing for me! But I would also like them to have the whole group behind in their work in a positive way for our national defence. That would be very positive, and that is the whole truth too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, when considering the financial situation of the army, it is necessary to note that the German army has taken over the old material after the withdrawal of the occupation powers, has maintained it and has also taken care of new equipment very carefully in order to have it long enough and also to help the Austrian state save it. One is very imaginative with the German army and has made a lot of material. The Austrian Federal Army also receives recognition abroad and in the European Union, because our soldiers are exemplary, and we can all be quite proud of that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is sad, however, that motivated cadre soldiers are engaged in the service of the Republic and that there is a parliamentary group like the Greens, who do not recognize and praise this, but always undermine and criticize the German army. I'm ashamed of these statements! I'll inform the soldiers accordingly. Those soldiers who have elected me to Parliament have also instructed me to inform the Green Group that they do not like you. Let me tell you this. They don't like you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] One important point has also been made by Mr Antoni, namely education and training. Federal Minister! It is my personal concern that not only the training and further training of the cadre soldiers, but also the training and leisure of the recruits are taken into account. The latter should also be offered opportunities for useful leisure activities. For example, computer courses or language courses should continue to be offered so that the recruits keep them in positive memory after their presence service has been completed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to point out once again: Austrian cadre soldiers are top in Europe. They use target-oriented and contemporary methods in training. Austrian cadre soldiers are trained for troops psychology and human leadership. They know what educational measures they need to use in the event of good and poor performance, and they also know what educational measures they need to use in the face of military ignorance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: We noticed that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think those cadre soldiers who behave like this will find recognition. Today, for example, you are active in the banking business or are a lecturer at management courses. All these cadre soldiers have completed military schools and have to attend training courses. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Such a training course would be something for oillingers!]] Is that bad? – That's why I deliberately say: I thank those who do a lot with little money because they deserve our thanks!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19745	Mrs Pepper is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19767	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution to the budget For the time being, the state defense concerns the closure of barracks. The barracks in my home district of Neusiedl am See in Burgenland was closed out of military considerations. For decades soldiers were trained there, and from 1993 on, this barracks was renovated by nearly 100 million schilling, and then it was closed. – That is incomprehensible to me! Economic, regional and employment-related motives remained on the track. And, of course, it is pressing the question of why a barracks, in which such a large amount of tax money has already been invested, is closed. I was able to attend the first class funeral – then still under Minister of Defense Fassleven. At the moment there are Border Security Assistance Soldiers in this barracks, and I would like to highlight this aspect in more detail: The assistance of the Austrian federal army at the EU's external border has been running for ten years now. The people of the border region welcome this commitment because many illegal refugees want to reach our country across the green border and therefore it is about the security of the people who live there. [[Abg. Leikam: Only more illegals come to this government!]] The disastrous situation and the human suffering of the refugees, which they are driving for this venture, must not be forgotten! At present, 2 000 assistant soldiers are stationed at the border of Burgenland. The co-existence of the soldiers with the local population is in good agreement. As these soldiers come mostly from other federal states, especially from the western Länder, the population feels addressed and responsible for making these soldiers more tolerable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to draw your particular attention to the following difficult and sensitive areas: Since the beginning of the assistance mission on the Burgenland border, reports of suicides of soldiers have been reported again and again, but also of accidents with weapons. – I suspect that these incidents are due to the extreme mental burden on soldiers in their professional situation. If you look closer at these circumstances, you can conclude that young people in particular are facing far too great a burden that they cannot have grown! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Without previous psychological training, young soldiers must truly catch defenseless, frightened, sometimes aggressive and often only in need of arms. – I mean to demand from the ministers present is unresponsible! - That's right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: You want the protection of the population, Mrs Colleague!]] But those who are exposed to such extreme situations need special training and care. [[Abg. Boy: That's right!]] I would like to point this out. In a 1996 request response, then Minister of Defense Fassleven of the ÖVP admits that since the beginning of the assistance mission, eight presenters or other army members had made suicide attempts, of which six had ended fatally. – For me, ladies and gentlemen, and for the Socialist Group, every human life counts, and every human life is equally valuable. I agree with the argument that these suicides would probably have been committed in private life. However, when it comes to human life, it must not be annihilation of problems, and the prevailing circumstances clearly show us how important it would be to finally address this taboo issue publicly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this way, we could take precautions in the future to prevent such tragic cases. Mr. Federal Minister! My proposals are as follows: Firstly, independent psychologists and experts should be required to participate in the Commission on Suicides. Secondly, psychological training for soldiers and also officers in the border service should be provided for. This would have a preventive character. Mr. Federal Minister! I would ask you to include my thoughts in yours, because the life and security of the soldiers must be something worth us!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19855	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Count. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19876	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear military comrades, many of you also with military service degrees! Whoever is with the Federal Army as I am 35 years of military service knows how it is ordered by the Federal Army! In this context, I like to take on an inspiration from Alfred Payshertner, who says in a comment in today's "Kurier": "But soon this country will urgently need a coalition of all reasonables, across all camps." In today's debate on the military national defence budget, all of them have been involved from the outset by the Federal Minister, with the invitation to submit their proposals here. Mrs Pre-Deputy, Mrs Pepper! You may not have noticed, but when you finished your speech, you were sure of our page applause! [[Abg. Pepper: Yes!]] There have been constructive suggestions from you, and we are all the more pleased when something is brought in here by your side! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that all reasonable proposals on a subject that has always been put out of dispute and out of the politically different opinions are enough for the benefit of Austria. When I consciously speak of different opinions, I do not mean the party dispute, but believe that the confluence of different opinions always leads to an optimization of an overall topic. In this sense, it would also be worth the topic of national defence that, in the end, there would be a common form of opinion here. This was also the case 25 years ago in the joint mandate for the National Defence Plan, which was jointly drawn up and then unanimously adopted by Parliament, unanimously – without the votes of the Greens, which had not yet been in this House. Military defence is therefore still under a mandate that is already 25 years old, and in these 25 years Europe and the world have changed, and the position of Austria in the middle of Europe and in the world has changed accordingly. Therefore, the order to the Federal Army must also be changed, and this change is also imperative if one considers the federal army's budgetary situation. I therefore agree with our motion for a resolution with full support, and if you read the lines of our motion for a resolution and then compare them with yours, you will see that there is no difference up to a few points. With this in mind, it would be a pleasure if you too could choose to give your consent to this common issue, which concerns all of us in Austria! They also discussed the issue of the possibility of introducing additional benefits into the federal army. – I think that is certainly possible. However, in view of the emergency budget – as the Federal Minister has now mentioned – this will be difficult to implement. In my opinion, the burden of debt taken over by the previous government is also, unfortunately, at the expense of each individual military soldier; I say consciously: at the expense of each individual military soldier. A few days ago, when there was a discussion about a minimum reduction in the additional services for civil service, Parliament was answered with a blockade which some in this House even voted for. Ladies and gentlemen! The current state defense plan, which at the time had to deal with the military threats in the course of an East-West conflict, and which provided for a spatial defense in response, is still in effect unchanged. The clergy of the state defence is still in force, which the colleagues from the Green Parliament Club apparently do not want to hear anything, at least now I do not see any of them here. I am therefore reading for the Minutes of the National Defence Plan, and perhaps I am preparing Mrs Lichtenbergerer for a special pleasure when I remind her of the obligations of the Spiritual Defense, which are also included. On page 96 of the National Defence Plan, point 2.3 is as follows: "In threatening situations" – including misinformation that is given – "the need for rapid response in the spiritual defense of the country is gaining a clear picture of the threat to the population as soon as possible." The principle of this information activity is that "all disinformation and thus disorientation of the population (such as by the dissemination of rumors) are excluded from the outset". - Quote. With this in mind, I would like to say quite clearly: Is it reasonable – as Mr. Editor Payartner puts it in space – if there are statements in connection with the budget here that the Freedom Party is "no part-racialist", but a "full-racist" party and "no part-extreme" but a "full-blown" party? – All of this is not reasonable, but counterproductive and contrary to the obligations you have as a citizen and, in particular, here as a member of the National Council in respect of compliance with the Spiritual Defence! I say something personal about it now, including for the protocol: Deputy Pilz! I am certainly not a right-wing or a racist, and I can only say to you: I have probably helped more foreigners in my life than I have ever met you in your life. Please take note of this once and for all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to give some guidance in the event that you should also make a reasonable contribution to the ongoing discussion: To give one hand is one of the minimum forms of courtesy of European citizens. An invitation to speak contradicts the spirit of the EU, and therefore the Commission of the European Communities has to examine the extent to which the conduct of the 14 Roman treaties contradicts, as it was said yesterday at the presentation by Commissioner Dr. Fischler here in Vienna. – It might be time for the Green Group, in particular, to be aware of what the EU says about this 14th behaviour, which is really true then and for what we stand for here.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19929	Mr Ing. Kaipel is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e19950	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some previous speakers also spoke about the catastrophic budgetary situation regarding this chapter, such as Mr Kiss. – I think you have been part of the government for many years and probably not entirely irresponsible for the situation now presented! It was the ÖVP that always made demands, and it was only the former Finance Minister Edlinger who warned of further expenditure! Minister of Finance Edlinger has also prepared a targeted proposal for the year 2000. If you do not get to the brink with your class-warring conversion, which is also budget-effective, then this is undoubtedly a problem for the government and not the opposition! [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] To the budget chapter military affairs. – It should be noted that under a Minister of Freedom, the Federal Army must come out with the lowest means. This is interesting in so far as the liberals have repeatedly accused the social democrats that they are starved of the federal army. And it was also the Freedom Party that demanded an increase of 1.5 percent of GDP. Today, under a secretary of freedom, the lowest budget is below 0.8% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals and the government groups! You now have the opportunity to implement your own demands! If MP Jung says: Where nothing is, the emperor has lost his right, then I would like to say: It is undoubtedly also a will question whether or not you want to implement something. Or you didn't mean it very seriously in the past! I agree with you, Federal Minister, that you have always been an arduous representative of the Federal Army. However, I cannot spare you the accusation that you have not enforced yourself against other previous statements at the expense of the security of our country and of the soldiers at your party friend, the Minister of Finance. But if Scheibner wanted to, it would probably have to be called: If Grasser doesn't want to, Scheibner has lost the right. Mr Jung also said that he wanted to save on the top of the federal army. To this end, I would like to say: In view of this, it is surprising that expenditure in the central management is rising by 40 million schilling! Federal Minister! ==References== In April, a clear commitment to assistance was made in Burgenland. In this context, you have also said that you want to act in agreement with the Minister of the Interior for an improved technical equipment to increase the efficiency of the assistance. This is what you have on 13 March. In April, the Committee reaffirmed its position. However, to date clear statements are missing, what you want to use in addition to technology and what dates you think for concrete implementation. So there are great confessions again and again, but then nothing concrete. The question is therefore whether staff savings are needed in the use of assistance. Neither you nor the Minister of the Interior has yet been ruled out that it should come to pass. What does a smaller defense budget mean? – Threatened personnel savings and financial resources for technical equipment that cannot be found in the budget can necessarily only mean a poorer level of border protection! That is why I am very concerned that the border security system, which is excellent by Minister Schlögl, is now increasingly at risk. Federal Minister! You have the opportunity to clarify a few things today. That is why I should like to ask you a few more questions: Will there be staff reductions in the use of assistance in the near future and – if so – to what extent? Then how do you want to carry out the tasks? Can you guarantee that the timetables will not be tightened? Do you calculate with an increase in illegal border crossings and, if so, to what extent? How do you want to react to this worse situation? Federal Minister! It is about the security of the country, it is about the security of the population, and it is also about the young people who are doing their service for the population and for the country. Everyone is insecure, and the people, I think, can rightly expect them to receive appropriate answers. Let me conclude by saying: The fact that the Social Democrats are also in favour of a modern state defence which is adequately equipped with their duties is of course a matter of course, since it was the SPÖ, which proposed in the previous year, to consider whether the general obligation of military service or the volunteer army is the more appropriate form. However, an examination should be carried out, not after ideological considerations, but according to the criteria, costs, benefits and efficiency in the context of a pan-European security policy. At the same time, however, the SPÖ is convinced that young people have the right to serve without weapons for reasons of conscience. If the current government thinks it is about cowards or blackbergers who have to make their projects as difficult as possible, or if the government believes that civilians are second-class citizens, then the government is the case. We Socialists, in any case, see the presence service as well as civil service for our society as equally valuable.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20024	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20042	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to answer some of the questions raised. On the one hand, the problem of helicopter procurement has been addressed: I have already pointed out in the Committee that we are at the final stage of the procurement process of the armed multi-purpose helicopter already decided in the Council of State Defense last year. There is the Ministry of Finance's financial guarantee that 400 million schillings will be made available for this project from next year onwards. But we can get this device already this year. There are two models in the final selection, and we are just getting the so-called "last best offer", i.e. the last best offer. I can calm you down: No preliminary ruling has been made. This decision will be based on strict criteria. It is important to pay attention to military purposes, but of course also to the economic conditions, i.e. the overall package. Again and again, the question was whether he was getting a combat helicopter. – In this respect, I can calm you: None of the two models represent a combat helicopter in the configuration of how we have been offered them, but in both models, their transport capacity is primarily important. The man equipment was also addressed: It is true that there is a need for re-examination in this area. For me, it will be a very important priority in man’s equipment and will focus on the fact that we allow for the same equipment for all our soldiers and, of course, where it is really a matter of resurgence-necessary equipment – especially the still-existing helmets, the wearing gear and the uniform as a whole – to remedy as quickly as possible. The truck fleet was also discussed: In this respect, we are in the process of changing to multi-purpose trucks which can be used for various purposes, thus providing better, more efficient and cost-saving applications for smaller quantities. Currently, the planning of the purchase of 200 of these multi-purpose trucks is planned. Mrs Lichtenberger has criticised the fact that I believe that security policy is purely military. – That is by no means the case! Of course, security policy is to be seen in a comprehensive way. It must not, however, exclude the military sector either. We have – and we can be quite sorry – seen in the past years and months – we have to see it every day again – that politics and security policy are important to crisis prevention, but ultimately many of those who provoke such conflicts around the world are only able to get rid of it with the language of weapons. We must note that military security policy cannot create lasting peace. Civil forces must also intervene here, and democratic structures – police structures – must also be created. In the end, however, the military guarantees a ceasefire, the silence of weapons, and this is a prerequisite for all further security measures. The fear was also expressed here that in the future officials of the Army News Office and the Defense Office would run after every federal army critic and control him. – I am convinced that the vast majority of Austrians are behind the Austrian federal army and defence. In addition, I can say in all modesty: We don't want it, but if we wanted it, we wouldn't have nearly so many officials in the Defense Office and the Army News Office to monitor all our critics in such a way. Our goal is it – quite the contrary! – by means of the discussed military power law, to place on a legal basis the rights of the intelligence services, of the defence office and of the military news office and in this way ensure legal certainty so that everyone can read exactly what rights are included here. These powers are, of course, purely reserved for the military sector, and there is no overlap here with security policy agendas. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The barracks proceeds are listed in the government programme. It does not purchase interceptors, but it is financed by the Mech package. This happens in the interest that we can implement the entire Mech package including the wheel tanks. It was referred to by a number of representatives of the assistance, partly for Lower Austria. There is currently no requirement by the Minister of the Interior to extend the assistance to Lower Austria. However, there are very intensive contacts between the two resorts as well as with the head of the state of Lower Austria in order to explore the possibilities of ensuring more efficient border security in Lower Austria with a more flexible system – also with the support of the Austrian Federal Army. To this end, I must say from the army that there are very big problems, not only legal problems, but of course also human and financial problems. But we are working on this. Mr Kummerer has criticized the lack of response to the question as to the number of trucks. Here I have to go to § 27 para. 2 of the Federal Budget Act, which in these cases prescribes military secrecy. It addressed the obligation of military service to women; Mrs Hagenhofer is currently, I believe, not in the hall. Of course, it is not a matter of duty to women. On the contrary: Since we want to change the overall military system to voluntaryness in the medium to long term, it is of course not our intention to introduce such a commitment for women. However, I still think it makes sense for women, in addition to or away from the possibility of completing a service in the context of a professional career for the defence of the state, to make this contribution, on a voluntary basis, in addition to their civil profession, in the context of the militia, if they wish. I do not see why women – and thus 50 percent of the Austrian population – should be excluded from this possibility. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The schools were addressed by colleagues Antoni. I think we can point out the following: With regard to all the problems we have in the budget and infrastructure, training our soldiers – the officers, the officers, but also the recruits – is respected throughout Europe, indeed worldwide. We see – and I say this with great pride – that Austrian soldiers are among the best in all competitions, including exercises, and above all because they feel and depend on regional circumstances. This is also evident in Kosovo, where there are armies who have great problems in carrying out their tasks, where, on the other hand, the Austrians enjoy the highest regard among the local population. This is also the result of the ever-improved training. In this respect, not only the military academy should be addressed. It was also converted into a military sub-official academy. As Mr Kiss pointed out that he had been used as a corporal as an instructor, it should be said that the training reforms already implemented by my predecessor are now the exception, Mr. Cot, that a Corporal is being used in training. We attach importance to the fact that, as far as is possible, fully trained officers, at least watchmen, are employed in this area. That has already produced very good results. We are also in the process of putting the army supply school and the army power-carrying school on new legs and considering a merger there. The Kaserne Imst was also addressed. It is part of the State Department of Defense's disposition. That means she's not needed by us. She's been rented to the Ministry of Education for two years. The Ministry of Education may, if it wishes and if, as planned, the State Defense Agency is to make cost compensation by the Minister of Finance, of course, continue to benefit from this area. Questions of assistance have also been raised. I say again: I acknowledge that the Austrian Federal Army is thus providing an important service to the security of Austria. It is a difficult task, which also concerns training and can only be implemented with great effort – not only the soldiers on the ground, but the entire federal army. We are committed to this, and we will continue to have this service in the future, because we have to assume that this assistance will be necessary for a few years to come. Suicides have also been addressed. Every single case is tragic. We have also established a psychological care on site and provided leisure facilities there. However, I would like to point out that, although the Austrian federal army is only a mirror image of the entire society – because any problem that occurs in the German army has finally arisen elsewhere and is carried into the German army – we can assume that the rate of suicide in the Federal Army is below average. We are very happy about this. Of course, each individual case will be examined accordingly. What technical equipment do we want? – This goes from thermal imagers to radar devices to better signal systems and better device for the night, i.e. night vision devices. Hievor is a lot in planning. We will negotiate with the Ministry of the Interior and with the Ministry of Finance for a corresponding budgeting. The border crossings have been addressed. In the last ten years, the Austrian Federal Army has had 40 000 attacks. I think that shows how important this contribution is for the security of Austria. [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ.]] In connection with the question of a volunteer army, it was addressed that SPÖ is also for that. I'm very happy about that. You will certainly also be invited to check that out. You just really have to do it with an eye measure. Other armies such as the Belgians have shown us how to do it: that without any framework conditions, without overall planning and also without creating an incentive system, as it is necessary to obtain enough volunteers, the military system is being converted. This would ultimately endanger the stock of the federal army and our security. That is why announcements in election campaigns are as we have heard them – that the military system will be changed within two years without any additional costs – rather to put it in the field of party policy and day-to-day policy, but they do not express truly responsible safeguards for our national defence. That is why we have gone on the way to first having experts examine the framework conditions and then move on to the appropriate measures. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the civil service: I too recognize that, as provided for in the Constitution, if someone refuses to serve with the weapon for conscience reasons, civil service as a military service is an important area. That's also to be recognized. But it must be clarified – as provided for in the law – that it is first of all a military service and that the second reason for conscience must prevail. As long as this system exists, it must also be pointed out that civil service should be the exception from the rule. However, I am opposed – in one direction or the other – to trying to play civil service and military service against one another. I would like to point out once again that the service of our soldiers – as Minister of Defense, of course, I have first and foremost to take care of the soldiers of the Federal Army – who are committed to using their health and their lives for the Republic and the people in a serious case, can be compared with nothing else and deserves our all respect! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to thank you for the really constructive debate. I have already spoken, because it has always been criticized when a minister has spoken as the last speaker. Should any further questions arise, I can bring myself in here for a moment. I would like to see all the difficulties we have with the budget that all of the three political groups in this House, who have been constructively committed to the Austrian federal army and who are ultimately represented as members in the National Defence Committee, will in the future also prevail in their own political groups, as it will be necessary, and I too, as ministers in my own government, will prevail so that in the future, not only the stock of the federal army is secured, but that we can also create the physical and human framework conditions for our national defence to go into a good, secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20178	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20200	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The national defence budget was already presented by my previous speakers whether the....... [[Abg. Murauer: Performed!]] Right! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] If you compare the budget chapter with other budget items, it stands at the last place with less than 0.8 percent of GDP. If one compares the national defence budget with European defence budgets, it is in the last place – with the exception of small states such as San Marino or Andorra. How and why this has come about have my previous speakers already presented in detail. [[Abg. Murauer: Say it again, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Despite this small budget, however, the question may be asked whether these funds are also used efficiently. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, allow me to ask the question: How do expenditure on the force behave in comparison to the administrative apparatus? – The three hunting brigades, the two tanking brigades and the corps of the first and second corps as well as the ABC defenses of the military commanders have a total of about 7,000 planning posts. However, the national defence unit has a total of about 27 000 planning posts. Of course, it is clear that an army has some fixed personnel costs. Ministerial services are needed – such as schools, camps, building administration, kitchen command and so on – but the goal of a reform must be to keep the overbuilding as low as possible. There is only one recipe for this, namely decentralisation and the delegation of responsibility, competence and budgets to the troops, to the immediate commanders. This reduces the administrative burden and accelerates procedures because decisions are taken on the ground and are responsible. Centralisation concepts, whether they be in the field of personnel management or property management – as I do not think you are, Mr Schöggl – naturally lead to more bureaucracy and thus reduce the efficiency of the force. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, I think that deregulation within the Federal Ministry is urgently necessary. The sum of the laws, regulations and decrees has already adopted an extent to which ownership, creativity and motivation are often hindered. Ladies and gentlemen! At the time of its accession, this government has undertaken to introduce the cost invoice throughout the public administration. This cannot, of course, stop before the Ministry of State Defense. There, too, one will have to push for cost truth. For example, the Federal Army has budgeted 362 million schillings for the year 2000 for operations in Cyprus and the Golan, as well as for the monitoring operations under UN and OSCE. Only 117 million schilling are expected to be recovered from the UN, so I was informed. In 1999, for example, the German army spent 669 million schillings on foreign operations – i.e. I mean foreign operations without Cyprus and Golan – and only partially recovered. I could not get any information on how the costs in Kosovo's use behaved versus the compensation from the UN. Minister! Of course, when money is scarce, imagination is recommended. That is why I can ask you whether it is possible to introduce, even in the field of national defence, partial rights, such as at museums. I could imagine that the renting of property, but also the sale of services to private demand providers, as well as the payment of military music, could make additional funds available to individual responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Federal Minister Scheibner: We do!]] - That's what you're going to do! The internal reform of the German army, according to the motto "Less administration, more troops" by decentralisation and delegation, as well as the requirement of a credible and financially feasible security doctor, are therefore urgently in place. I am sure – you have also explained this to us in your remarks – that you will address these reforms with great energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20296	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. Second word message; Time remaining: 12 minutes. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20317	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister and many speakers have already talked about the new Austrian Defence and Security Doctrine and have already announced it. A resolution has been tabled by the FPÖ for this purpose. We too – I have said this repeatedly – are convinced that we need a new Austrian Security and Defence Doctor due to the changed security policy conditions. I should therefore like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaál, Mr Kostelka, on the preparation of a new security and defence doctrine. It has been distributed, it is available and therefore does not need any further justification. I can only ask you to step up our ideas and proposals and to give your consent to the request. Mr. Jung! It is not right if you claim here that our proposal, our request, is already taking the conclusion forward. It is true and true that we have kept the further procedure here. We are therefore ready to cooperate, but we already need to be involved in the preparatory work as an equal partner, because we are convinced that this important security issue needs to be dealt with, discussed, discussed and discussed at the widest possible level. As has been said, we too are in favour of joint decision-making in security and defence policy. You haven't been ready for that until now. You now have the opportunity to correct this, and the opportunity to give our request our consent. Then we too are ready for a yes for your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20353	The application Gaál, Kostelka, presented in its main guidelines, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. It shall be annexed to the Stenographical Protocol in full text. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20485	The next speaker is Mr Lexer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20506	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a strong military soldier, of course, I can't be happy when I look at the army budget and see the teaching. But it is clear that in times when you have to save, you have to stretch to the ceiling. That is why I am convinced that the new Minister of Defence will continue the good work of our Federal Minister Werner Fasslevend and will not only maintain the operation, but also make it well despite the emergency budgets. Although the question of "general military service or occupational army" is currently being examined, as a convinced military soldier, as stressed, I would like to break a lance for the existing Austrian federal army and promote the maintenance of the general military service and the military system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not possible without obligation to maintain a community without obligation. The obligation to military or civil service is acceptable to each Austrian and contributes significantly to the increase of state awareness. In addition, the military system, the participation of citizens in national defence, is a strong pillar in a democracy that values violence sharing. However, it is crucial that the service is designed excitingly and that there is a timely training. It is also crucial that there is modern material and equipment and that the service time is spent meaningfully and beneficially. This is certainly easier said than done at the present budget. My wish at the end, repeated once again: I would like our Austrian federal army to be maintained and managed by a capable, motivated and well-paid cadre staff – with the general military obligation and the proven military system. I'm convinced: There's nothing better!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20548	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20570	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you talk about the Austrian army in this House, you can certainly not be hurt if you, as a representative, also refer very personally to the relationship to the military position. In this sense, I should like to declare myself clear and clear here as a follower of the general obligation of military service. I believe that the tasks assigned to our army – namely military defence, domestic and international disaster aid, border security assistance, peace-support operations and humanitarian aid – can best be fulfilled by a federal army with a general military obligation. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] There are also three essential advantages: The army is firmly embedded in the population; if the international situation worsens, our army can be strengthened very quickly; and thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we have a broad staff reserve for defence, assistance, disaster protection and foreign use. To this end, there is the international experience that three redundancies must be available for all domestic and foreign operations – which is a very essential factor. To the Federal Army, ladies and gentlemen, As far as personnel costs alone are concerned, we would need 1 billion schilling each for 1 000 men. I think that this is not an issue – at all in the current budgetary situation – is clear. In addition, the cross-section of the population in the army is very important. The knowledge of young people can thus flow to the army, and that is good. Moreover, if you look at the countries that have a professional army recruiting their members, it turns out that this is certainly anything but funny. I think the general obligation to do so is still the pillar of our defence system. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, restructuring is important, and I think that is what our Federal Minister is aware of. The fact that for us there is always a need for the other parts of the ministry to be restructured to the troop is, I believe, an Ural requirement, and I believe it is also justified. If you look at the fact that, for example, the acquisition of 1,200 administrative officials from the Federal Building Administration (BGV) has now taken place, I wonder if this has been the right decision. This can lead to double-tracks with the military commanders. I don't know if this has really been the right thing. In general, I insist that it must be a desirable goal to stick to the socialization of our army, not least because our youth is serving there. It is about serving an idea with the army and with the citizens. As very satisfactory, I consider the state of training of the trainees, ladies and gentlemen, as even the Austrian army has a level of training which can be seen. When you read international military papers, you can see that this is always attested to us. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the liberals as well as with the applause of the SPÖ.]] It is therefore, as has been said, a clear presumption of the administration of our army, which is the very first problem. This is not only the case with the army, but it is also a command of the hour for many other problems in this country. Federal Minister! I wish you all these things worked out. I wish you – and this is perhaps something extraordinary for an opposition politician – good luck! Why do I wish you good luck? – This also has a personal component. I am one of those Members who came to this House in 1990 as you did. I have experienced a number of club members at the FPÖ, and I would also like to say this very clearly. You, Mr. Federal Minister – I am speaking to you now as a former clubman – have always known where the political dissident is the belt line. In fact, we have always counted very, very high on you. [[Demonstrative applause with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense and precisely that is why I wish you all the best and good luck for your coming activity!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20647	The next speaker is Mr Loos. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20668	Mr President. Highly esteemed Minister of State! Today, on the second day I have the honour of serving in the National Council, I am already pleasantly surprised. I can say that. As a long-standing soldier and officer, I have had a debate here today, which allows me to note that the greater part of this House has expressed itself very positively to the German army today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the Austrian People's Party this is done without When and But. I have the impression of the Social Democrats that one has only made some criticism from party reasons – which is also spoken for the German army. But – if I may allow this criticism in one of my first sentences – in the Greens I have not been able to take out any contentions, ladies and gentlemen, at the best of my will! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In principle, it is gratifying that the German army, as in the population, enjoys high reputation among the people's representatives. As I said, this also brings me great joy personally. As a Turkish MP and as one who has lived directly on the Austro-Hungarian border for more than 50 years – first on the Iron Curtain, now on the Schengen external border – I am allowed to comment briefly on the assistance of the German army at our border on the occasion of my first contribution to the debate. What our Federal Government has done on this matter is currently doing and, as we have heard, will still do in the future, I would like to stress with a few figures. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links==* Official website For the illustration only: The Burgenland has a population of just over 270 000 people. It will not take long for this population to be exceeded by the soldiers. There are currently more than 2 000 soldiers in use. However, if you look at the comparisons of the past few years with regard to the tow and illegal border workers, you have unfortunately to see a strong increase. The increase from 1998 to 1999, plus 117 percent! In 1998 we had about 20,000 illegal border crossings, and in 1999, unfortunately, about 43 000. In the Bundesländer comparison – perhaps interesting because today the Lower Austrian border was also addressed – it is true that until recently the Burgenland had always taken the negative top position, I would say, on illegal border crossings. In this respect – for Lower Austria, one must say: unfortunately – Lower Austria has overtaken us. There has been an increase of 3,600 to 10,300 illegal border crossings in these two years. The increase in Tyrol from 900 to 6,000 is also remarkable. I would now like to stop these figures. In my opinion, the figures speak for themselves, emphasizing the accuracy and importance of this assistance of our Austrian federal army. I know that the population wants this border use, and no politician, for example in Burgenland, dared to say that this border deployment should be abolished. We are very, very grateful to the Federal Government for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This too has already been cut several times: The cost of doing so should not actually be charged to the German army. If you do not charge these costs to the German army and perhaps create your own budget item in the future, we could reach an average budget of the European states. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the defence budget is concerned, we will work together!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20756	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I do not have a wish for a final word to be reported. We therefore come to the vote, first of all we shall vote on the advisory group XII of the Federal proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapter 40 of the Federal estimates, together with the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate in 60 of the supplements, as amended by the Special Report in 80 of the Supplements. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this chapter of the Federal Proposal for a sign. – This chapter is adopted by a majority. I suggest that, as we have always done, we vote in favour of the resolutions adopted in each chapter. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Gaál and Mr Comrades on retirement time for ordinary and extraordinary presenters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this motion for a resolution by Mr Gaál to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol concerning Austrian Security and Defence Doctor. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the Westenthaler, Khol resolution to give a signal. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 10.) Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaál on the preparation of a new Austrian Security and Defence Doctrine. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution by Mr Gaál for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-11-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00023_d7e20848	I can still say that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 151/A to 157/A (E). Question No 750/J to 766/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, 12. The following agenda was adopted at 9 a.m. on 9 May: Report by the Budget Committee on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 together with investments. We will advise the Advisory Groups on Education, Culture, Science and the Advisory Group on Public Performance and Sport. Question Time is not scheduled for tomorrow's sitting. This meeting is closed.
