ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e1854	Ladies and gentlemen! I warmly welcome you and open the 51. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies are reported as prevented by Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Fischl, Jung, Murauer, Dr. Ofner, Mag. Kubitschek, Gaál, Reitsamer, Nürnberger, Vergestnich and Wenitsch. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e1885	I should like to refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (310 and 310 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2001 and Investments (370 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2043	I'm going to the agenda now. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2064	We have reached consensus on the following procedure: A day block time of 10 "Vienna hours" is proposed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 195 minutes, FPÖ and ÖVP per 145 minutes, Green 115 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group shall be deducted from the speaking time of the group concerned, provided that this speaking time exceeds 20 minutes. In the case of a competent State Secretary, the speaking time should be deducted when 10 minutes have been exceeded. The term of office of non-governmental members should be taken into account at the full time of the related group. This proposal is to be found in the House. I therefore ask whether there is an objection to this proposal. - That's not the case. That's what we decided. Advisory Group VIII Chapter 60: Agriculture, forestry and water management Chapter 61: Environment new
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2116	We are entering the negotiations on the Advisory Group VIII for 2001. There is no wish to report on the part of Mr Auer. This will allow us to go into the list of speakers at once. The first speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2146	Good morning! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of BSE is currently the subject of item number one in Europe, and we are glad that the European Union has just issued the ban on the feeding of animal meal, which will apply for at least the next six months. I agree with the German Minister for Agriculture, who believes that this ban on animal feed must be maintained over a longer period of time. I would also like to say that this decision did not come too early. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is heard from the Ministry of Finance that between 300 million and 1 billion schilling should be spent on this solution to the BSE crisis. These funds are to be made available from the disaster fund, and I would like to say that...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2170	Mr Wimmer! One second. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of a session, there is always such a great pleasure to see, so to speak, in'small meetings', so I ask them to be moved outside the meeting room. At the beginning it is always particularly difficult. Please, Mr Wimmer, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2189	Thank you, Mr President. . I would like to say that we Socialists are in principle in agreement with this approach, but one must already be held: It is already noticeable that, if funding is now ensured by this disaster fund, consumers alone have to pay for these measures. No one speaks of the feed industry, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It is completely out of the question of responsibility, and it cannot be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that, in particular, the European feed industry has to make its contribution to the reorganisation, because it was not so inadvertent in the development of the problem, as the various reports have repeatedly pointed out, my very much appreciated ladies and gentlemen. If so much money is already used from the Kat Fund, then the financing of these quick tests, which are absolutely necessary, has to be done from this pot. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We always criticise various measures in the agricultural sector very strongly and rightly, as I mean. How absurd decisions are to be criticised, shows the following example: We have now heard that 1 billion Schillings are being spent to combat this BSE problem, which we also think is right, but at the same time, this budget reduces the funding of organic farming from 14 million to 11 million Schillings. That means that many... – No! [[Abg. Rainer! You know that better!]] Mr Auer, you will also know that a measure is currently being put in place which is counterproductive in view of the situation we are currently in Europe. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the organic farmers in particular will be very affected and very many organic farmers will have to give up their existence. You'll have to stop production. Moreover, we know – this is the counterproductive – that organic farming is absolutely animal-free and therefore the spread of BSE is excluded in this area. I therefore believe that this decision is wrong. Shortening the promotion of organic farming by more than 20 percent is grossly negligent, ladies and gentlemen very much appreciated! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore ask you, Minister of State, to reconsider this decision. She could have fatal consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few more sentences on the sale of the forest and water from the Federal Government. This is an issue that is very affecting the population. On Saturday I had the opportunity to take part in a large assembly of the right-wings, the forested in the Salzkammergut, and I say to you: These people are skeptical, these people are insecure, and these people are afraid of their securitised right – and that is not unfounded, as is becoming increasingly evident, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated! Many questions that have been asked there cannot be answered at all at this time, and this is driving the uncertainty of the people concerned to the climax, especially if, for example, the ÖBF-AG offers forests, plots and hunts via the Internet. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Bann forests and forests are offered, although they are still being renovated with public funds. Protective forests will be offered for sale, which will receive sufficient funding by 2020. A few examples: The object "Sonnstein am Traunsee" is described and offered as hunting area. A total of 35 million Schilling will be made available by 2020. Furthermore, there is the object "Wimmersberg", a Bannwald, which is also written out and released for hunting. 40 million schilling of funding will still flow for this. And then there is the object "Brentenkogel", which is also located in the Ebensee area, for which 19 million Schilling are provided. In view of this, of course, the question arises, Mr Federal Minister: Does this mean that these areas will be sold and the funding will be maintained by 2020? If that is really the case, Minister of State, then it is a good business for those who can afford such a hunt. But it is irresponsible to the Austrian taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! This "green lung" is responsible for selling the Austrian forest. It is equally irresponsible to put water resources at risk. I'm telling you today: The population will not leave you out of your responsibility. We will ask people and provide them with a platform to be able to show off this irrantious policy. You will get the invoice presented for this. And the first invoice, Mr. Federal Minister, was written last Sunday in Burgenland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2254	I can tell the ladies and gentlemen at the gallery that you don't want to be pleased or anything like that. The next speaker is Mrs Anna Elisabeth Achatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2285	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For the farmers next to the soil, the earth, the animal was always very valuable. Respect for the animal, for the creature and for the responsibility for soil and soil was and are the basic principles of farming. Any violation of these laws of nature is terrible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 2 million cattle – 2 million cattle! – must now be burned in the European Union. You have to imagine this: 2 million cattle are slaughtered and burned! This is a shame, a cultural shame to Europe to an indescribable extent. It is a sin against creation and life. Who's responsible? – They are responsible for the profit, the money, the quick gain and the enjoyment of everything, but also for all things and nothing more sacred to them. But they are also responsible for all those who demand increasingly cheaper food, always demand cheaper meat and buy it without questioning where it comes from as it was produced. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The AK!]] So all those who make policies with cheap food are responsible. Let's remember: For accession to the EU, the SPÖ was recruited by a woman named Ederer with the following slogan: Yes to Europe, because this saves an Austrian average family 1 000 s a month, because the free movement of goods makes food so cheap by the free movement of goods. This was the SPÖ's battle call for EU accession. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Tell your coalition partner!]] I remember very well. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Tell the Federal Minister!]] It's unpleasant for you now that I remind you of it. [[Abg. Edlinger: But really not!]] The strict Austrian food law was sacrificed to four freedoms on the EU altar. Food additives, which were banned before EU accession to Austria – 80 in number – were suddenly allowed, were simply allowed against all concerns. All the concerns of the liberals with regard to health and food were removed from the table at EU accession. If only it would have stayed with the tortoise! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Today, cattle insanity and swine fever are soaring. Two million cattle, Mrs Mertel, have to be burned – thanks to the insanity of profit. - It's not funny and it's not for itself. There is an EU agricultural policy in the face of scrapping, and 2 million cattle have to burn. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Who has the agriculture in hand?]] Who was in favour of EU accession? [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Who are the profiters of it?]] Who was in favour of EU accession? – This EU agricultural policy ruins the livelihoods of humans and animals and devours billions. We liberties were against it, you were for it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I wish we would not have kept right with our reservations about the European Union and this ruinous agricultural policy, because it is ruining the agricultural culture, a millennium-old culture. [[Abg. Grabner: Schwarzenberger you have to say it! He's responsible for the debacle!]] If the German Chancellor Schröder says in an interview a month ago, the Austrians do not need to imagine that they can continue to operate agriculture in their Schrebergärten, then this is an arrogance that smells like heaven, I can tell you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that no BSE has occurred in Austria to this day is luck and we owe it to the fact that we still have in Austria – I say quite consciously – a small-structured agricultural agriculture. This is a merit of Minister Molterer – I am quite aware that we do not agree in many areas – who recognises the particular situation of Austrian agriculture, represented it in Brussels and took it into account in the ÖPUL programme. [[Abg. Edlinger:... would the SPÖ be guilty, Mrs. Achatz!]] But that's just the one side of the medal. On the other hand, because of the free movement of goods, meat, sausages and finished products from EU countries in which BSE cases have occurred have always been imported and imported into Austria. I would like to remind you, Minister of State Molterer, that you have done nothing about the fact that imported meat was supplied with the "Austria Güttezegel" in Austria and sold to consumers. [[Abg. Grabner: Finally she reached the right address!]] – You have rejected that too. [[Abg. Kiermaier: (in the direction of ÖVP signposting) Over there!]] Mr Kiermaier! They have also rejected the requests from us liberals who have been asked to stop this consumer fraud. You have rejected them. That's what you're responsible for. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Over there is your partner, not us!]] This is a fraud against consumers and Austrian farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] It is also the AMA seal for processed products not 100% in order, Mr. Federal Minister! We must also ensure that 100 percent of Austrian products are included in the processed products on which the AMA is a seal. Why does nobody really wonder why it is possible that today agricultural, animal products cost as little or as much as 30 years ago? Why doesn't that ask a person? We just consume and don't think about where this comes from and what the farmer gets for it. Today, a farmer receives as much milk as 20 years ago for a litre. Increasingly larger groups force farmers to produce cheaper and cheaper. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Not only the farmers, the industry too!]] – Also, not only the farmers, of course also trade, always cheaper and faster. The price pressure continues through the entire chain: from the consumer to the dealer and processor to the farmer, and ends with the feed manufacturer. [[Abg. Edlinger: What are you doing about it? What are you doing about it? What are you doing about it?]] Some articles today just cost less than 40 years ago. Last year, the pig price was at the level of post-war times, and no man asks. [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm asking you! Give the answer!]] In the case of cheap goods, anyone has to be cheated. This is either the farmer who works for nothing or the dealer who doesn't deserve anything, or the customer who finally gets the dirt. [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm waiting for your suggestions!]] Not only in cattle has the crazy method, that's the same for battery chicken, that's the same for salmon breeding. One of the most disgusting production methods is probably the mast of Puten, whose meat is propagated as healthy, fat and cholesterol. In Germany, the toughest pieces are measured worldwide. If a mast chicken reached about 11 pounds (11 kg) 25 years ago, today it comes to the double. The result: Under the weight of meat, the skeletons of the animals, the legs or the tendons break or tear. [[Abg. Swimmling: This comes from more and more, more and more!]] The breast mixed with power feed and medications is the most sought after part of the animals. They come out of the balance, this keeps letting them tip into the smelling bets again and again. This is the result of an agricultural policy that we have warned about freedom of movement – a agricultural policy that is ruining the farmers, dispersing from their farms, which is against the laws of nature and is making people sick. EU agricultural policy has failed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. You have to ask why! Causes! Not just the effects! Let us talk about the causes, the causes and not the effects!]] The most visible evidence is the failure piles on which 2 million cattle are now burning. Let's turn around! Let us stop running politics against creation and against the laws of nature! [[Abg. Edlinger: You're in government! Turn around! You're in government! Turn around! Turn around!]] It's not the time for credit allocations now, although I'm trying to do that, but I'm not doing it. It's not the time to call for more control. Now is the time to lay a new ground across the borders of the party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now is the time for Europe's agricultural policy to be finally subordinated to the natural laws and to have the courage to face cheap profit thinking. [[Abg. Swimmling: With the appeal alone...!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: We're ready to do that! We support you! We're ready, Mrs. Achatz!]] The immediate change of EU agricultural policy is a command of the hour. If the EU is not prepared to do so, we will demand the renationalisation of agriculture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: Where is the applause at the partner? Where's the applause from the partner?]] We liberties will certainly not do well to see how a responsible agricultural policy destroys a millennia old culture and destroys our livelihoods.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2663	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2684	Mr President. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! I'm glad you're here. Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! Mrs Achatz! Your moralization doesn't bring us a millimeter. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's it!]] This moralization is a failure, a failure of politics. We need political solutions and not debt allocations. You are talking about EU accession, you are talking about consumer responsibility, industry's responsibility. [[Abg. Achatz: Where are the causes? Where are the causes?]] But you are not talking about the responsibility that EU agricultural policy has for its guidelines, for its actions, which it has decided in the framework of Agenda 2000. Federal Minister! You too have agreed to a clear "offering" of European agriculture in the international agricultural markets. That is the EU's statement on the liberalisation of agricultural markets. You have been kneeling like all the other EU Agriculture Ministers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen from the government! Question your agricultural policy perspectives! Try to remember a repositioning! We need this realignment, and we need environmental and social minimum standards for European agriculture. Federal Minister! I ask you to: If you want to do so at European level, please take these lip confessions as they represent the European agricultural model. That's a pure lip confession, and that's too little, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is the final meaning of production steering? What does it mean to create a framework for agriculture in Europe, ladies and gentlemen? – It means not only anchoring organic production by law, as is organic farming in Europe through EC Regulation 2092/91, but, of course, we also need a clear definition of what we understand as an agricultural factory. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the challenge. We must have the courage to say clearly what an agricultural factory is: a land-independent production, Mr Federal Minister, animal husbandry in four-storey high-rises! This must finally be on the agenda, which must be on the agenda of the European Agriculture Ministers. You are responsible for this, because you have to do something to be discussed at European level! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It cannot be the case that companies currently producing in this way receive public funding. Ladies and gentlemen! That must be stopped immediately. Clear legislation and feeding regulations must be enforced. I think there is a very good proposal in this regard at European level; the EU Commission has presented a proposal for mandatory open labelling of feed. This is a first step so that animal meal cannot be placed on the market in any way in a mixed form. Be committed to this, Mr Federal Minister, and start this offensive for a fresh start of the agricultural debate at European level! We need an agenda 21 for agriculture. We need a new objective for the European agricultural policy. That is why I would like to ask you to make a comment today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From green positioning it is clear that we stand for three central principles: First of all, for the sustainable production of food across the globe, not only in Europe. This must be a global principle, ladies and gentlemen. This is a necessary central point, which we must also represent in the WTO negotiations. We must try to convince other nations, other countries. These include not only incentive components within the meaning of public support payments, but also limit values, clear limits, clear legal definitions, what mass animal husbandry is, what industrial agriculture is. Without this clarification, ladies and gentlemen, we will not come any millimeters further and will find a food scandal every two years in this country or in any other country in Europe – to the detriment of consumers and also to the harm of our farmers. Secondly, The new challenges, Mr. Federal Minister, are also to open up new production opportunities for agriculture – production opportunities in a very important area, namely energy production. Renewable energies are a future project. We need to do more about that. We in Austria have been at a level of about 25 percent of renewable energy for ten years – despite all efforts, including your party colleagues! We're not from the spot. In this regard, I urge you to finally create clarity so that we can continue in this direction that we will finally use and implement other approaches such as biomass, biogas, wind and small hydropower, but also photovoltaics and solar thermals in agricultural farms, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The third pillar of a green agricultural policy clearly represents the remuneration of environmental services and the social compensation for production difficulties. Of course, there are also approaches to this in the current agricultural policy in Austria, which I appreciate and which I also perceive accordingly. But we also need a very great need for reform here, because the model in the current form can no longer be financed with the enlargement of the East. You know, Minister of State. I ask you to: Finally, put forward a new proposal which also takes into account the labour market, the activity of farmers in farms, and not only the models of support according to farm sizes and the number of animals in a farm! Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of this green positioning, I am putting in place today a motion for a resolution which is reflected in three essential demands. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution is an order to you, Minister of State, at last, at EU level for a new offensive, for a new European agricultural policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would of course also like to address some specific points of this budget in my contribution to the debate. The situation of Austrian agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, is anything but pink. Nor does it help us to beautify the numbers and put ourselves up and say that we are an eco-pattern country. The real fact is that the income situation of agriculture is quite problematic. We have seen a significant fall in income, as we can read in the 1999 Green Report, which we have not yet discussed in this House. For distribution justice. Ladies and gentlemen! That's incredible. After we get 260 businesses more than half a billion schilling – 260 farms! – while the lower 50 percent of all direct payment recipients receive only 14 percent of the funding. That's incredible, Minister of State! There's something we need to do! That is unfair in every form. It cannot be the objective of an agricultural policy to promote large farms without cover, without any ceiling. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! Your federal proposal is also lacking. I call a concrete position, heading 1/60366, promoting rural development. You're budgeting $4.79 billion of schilling here. Months ago you approached us and said: We were successful at EU level, we have fought 5.8 billion from the second pillar of agricultural policy. - Where are these 5.8 billion in this budget? Federal Minister! I would ask you to make a point of order. I would now like to refer specifically to one point which Mr Wimmer has already referred to in order to question the orientation of agricultural policy on the basis of your Federal proposal in principle. Federal Minister! Why Shorten Do you make the Federal contribution to the institutions of organic farming by 25 percent? - I don't understand. They have been coming to the public for months and years and are also using the forums of these associations to present themselves in order to make your political commitment to articulate your commitment to organic farming, and those organisations that have made it possible for Austria to be so good in Europe today, at least almost 20,000 organic farms – no question, we had many discussions over the last year and in recent months on exit problems from this organic farming – are also reducing the budget, although these organisations have to work with a low budget – namely 14 million Schilling Federal contribution. These are reduced by 25 percent. Federal Minister! I don't understand you anymore. [[Abg. Perfuss: That's really bad!]] Are you an environmental minister, or are you not an environmental minister? - That's the question here. Your press spokesperson, Mr Popp, says that it is necessary to stop the wild growth and concentrate the forces. – What is the focus of a budget cut? How can you even argue? – At the same time, you have increased the grant for other institutions: for agriculture plus 1.9 million schilling, for quality improvement in animal husbandry plus 1 million schilling, for the agricultural market Austria plus 90 million schilling in your federal proposal. Federal Minister! That's scandalous. I can't say that any more. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Why scandalous? – That is why scandalous because, on the one hand, you cut down the budget on the bio-organisations and, on the other hand, increase the budget of agricultural bureaucracy by 90 million schilling, without considering it to be insignificant, without questioning its need. You argue with a need for more controls in the area of animal identification. On the other hand, you are reducing the budgets of those institutions, those institutions that are taking precautions, which contribute to the absence of BSE and similar problems at all. Federal Minister! This is totally counterproductive. The active BSE prevention performed by the bio-organisations shall be promoted and supported. I call on you to become active. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This necessary increase in resources is justified by the fact that those institutions are contributing to a sustained lack of BSE and that regional projects that are truly ecological, such as this dairy project, which has been developed by such a bio-organisation, can continue to benefit Austrian consumers. [[The speaker keeps an organic milk pack up to date]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2924	The amendment to the Bundesfinanzgesetz and the motion for a resolution consisting of three points are properly tabled and are for negotiation and voting. Mr Schwarzenberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2949	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Pirklhuber! It is not true that next year the organic farmers would get less than this year, but the farmers will get more. The ÖPUL 2000 will also improve direct support to organic farmers. However, this 2001 budget is generally characterised by the need for organisations to be "smart down" not only in the organic sector, but also in the milk performance control system, in the breeding associations, even in the advisory financing and also in the agricultural schools. [[Abg. Oillingers: The chambers, too?]] In public administration too, the funds will be reduced by about 20 percent. But the farmers and especially the organic farmers in Austria will receive over 1.5 billion schilling in 2001. It's wrong to say that the organic farmers would get only 17 or 14 million schilling, or whatever number they call. These are organizations. I may understand Pirklhuber. Since he is the managing director of a control group, I understand that MP Pirklhuber wants these associations to receive more funds. But now on our biggest problem in European agriculture: BSE is indeed a disaster for European cattle farmers. I also recognise here that health of food must be the top priority. There must be no cost, nor any requirement to ensure the safety of consumers. In the Agriculture Council of Ministers on Monday this week, a set of measures was decided which, although costing billions of money – also for Austria, would be high costs – but would ensure the best possible health and restore consumer confidence in beef. In Austria, we have so far had to thank God – but that is not just a coincidence – not yet a BSE case. But we ourselves have contributed a lot more to this than other European countries. We were the first to not feed animal meal on ruminants since 1990, so this is forbidden. We did not feed any animal meal on ruminants before. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who controls this?]] [[Abg. Wicker: Are there controls?]] The protein base for ruminants can also, as it were, be produced with ground feed unless it is high-performance bovine animals that have to produce 8,000, 10 000 or more kilograms of milk per year. However, we have also begun as one of the first European countries with rigorous control. Many farmers have even felt it a shock that since 1997 each animal has had to acquire two marks, each change of the AMA has to be reported. Where the calf is born, it must be reported within seven days of the purchase of the calf, which must be reported within seven days. This even goes so far that the farmer, when he drives his animals on his own pasture, must report the AMA so that you can understand it, because there could be different animals coming together on the alm. Even if an animal is brought to a cattle market to a cattle auction, the animal must be reported to the AMA and logged out from the appropriate farm, and if it is not sold, it must be re-registered on the same or the next day. – There are no such rigorous controls in any other area. Mr Pirklhuber complained that the AMA needed more resources. To this end: The AMA has 130 inspectors who travel all year round to control agricultural production and also the way through the processing plants. One thing cannot be done: to demand increased controls and then to say that the money for the controls should not be given, but that the farmer should pay it himself. That's not how it's done! [[Abg. Wimmer: But not about the consumer!]] Last year, these AMA controls carried out over 90 000 checks. And in this context, I really want to put a finger in a wound: Many consumers misinterpret this red and white red "A", which comes from the "Made in Austria" association. This association is composed of the Trade Union Confederation and the Federal Chamber of Commerce and awards this red and white red "A", which says only that more than half of the value added has been added in Austria. It says nothing at all about where the raw materials, the processing materials come from. This is really a "consumer confusion". Consumers believe it is Austrian raw materials. I have already seen this red-white-red "A" on pistachio packs, even on orange juice packs, although each of us knows that these products are not produced in Austria. But: If the packaging is more expensive than the content, this red-white-red "A" can already be awarded. This uncertainty of consumers should be reversed as quickly as possible! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dolinschek.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! On the real issue, the budget. We have new framework conditions with Agenda 2000 which will be valid until 2006. I feel that the Socialists of the year 2000 are no longer the same as the Social Democrats of the year 1999. At that time, in Berlin, the Agenda 2000 was still jointly decided by the government, Germany's climate was itself involved. Austria has been pressing for a degression of funding there until the last time. But the social democratic governments in Europe were not willing to give this degression the consent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] The German Chancellor Schröder even said at the German Farmers' Day that the Schrebergartenagriculture in the Alpine countries will have no future, and agriculture will also have to industrialize – because the social democratic parties in Europe want as cheap food as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Degression is possible...!]] That's the real cause and the double-soil in the country. [[Abg. Edlinger: You can give the little one more, you just don't want it!]] Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger, if you do not suffer from memory wounds, you need to know that the market organisation payments are 100% from Brussels and if we voluntarily refrain from doing so, we would only save Brussels costs, but not the Austrian budget. More than half of the Austrian agricultural budgets are payments that go over our budget from Brussels, that is, only throughputers. For this reason, only less than half of the budget is spent by Austrian taxpayers. Everything else is paid by Brussels. In these Agenda 2000 negotiations, an important call for Austria to implement rural development across Europe as a second pillar has been successful, and it is part of it. We also receive a total of 9.8 percent of the total budget spent on rural development in Brussels, for Austria, although we have only around 2% of production and the population. This is a success of Austria, especially our Federal Minister, but it has also helped us in this matter, I say, the Austrian Commissioner, who has supported and prepared it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's what I'm getting to the end. We have gone through the process of deciding on the budgets without re-indebtedness from 2002 onwards. Some of the farmers are also victims of agriculture for the 2001 budget year, but in the interest of forward-looking budget development and in the interest of our children we will give this budget our approval. [[Abg. Edlinger: They're getting more money!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3105	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3126	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I will also address the current issue of BSE. However, you will allow me to comment first on the budget situation of Chapter 60. This Federal Government has begun to make a new approach to budgetary policy towards a balanced budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] This budgetary policy, Mr Eder, is smart and is the only alternative in the long term in the interests of Austria. You know that very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Brix: A very subjective consideration!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Of course, the budget chapter 60, agriculture and forestry, must also be seen from this point of view. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government has been able to ensure, despite this budgetary course, that all the possibilities that Austria can actually exploit in the framework of Agenda 2000 in the interests of our country, the farmers and the people of rural areas that consumers have negotiated can be effectively exploited and managed. There will be no schilling in Brussels, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The priorities are, of course, the further development of the environmental programme, the improvement of, for example, mining, including the amount of the base for smaller farms, the further development of investment support, the development of rural development as such, the forestry and forestry measures, so that we can implement and achieve our objective in Austria, namely to strengthen agricultural agriculture in a strong and economically successful rural area, also through this budget approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A total of 24.8 billion schilling is available in the budget under Chapter 60. The focus is, as has been said, on the benefits of Agenda 2000 for our country, for farmers and for the whole rural area. Rural planning: It is important to me that this agricultural budget also includes much for safety. I am thinking, for example, of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation, which is a vital prerequisite for the conservation and protection of their settlements, especially for the people in the mountain regions. I would now like to address some of the current questions. First of all, on the question of BSE: This Federal Government has adopted a very clear approach to BSE in the Council of Ministers, which, of course, takes into account and implements the resolution of the National Council. I am therefore very grateful and happy that on Monday, at the special meeting of the Council of Agriculture Ministers in Brussels, a ban on EU-wide feeding – I would say – has come for a temporary period of six months. This is a right, necessary, clear and justified decision. Secondly, There will be necessary accompanying market measures. I hope that we will quickly regain consumer confidence to the extent that we have to remove as few animals as possible, ladies and gentlemen, from the food chain, because ultimately, I am convinced, we can only maintain our good and high-quality production in the long term with the confidence of consumers. Thirdly, There will be a number of accompanying measures which this House has also called for, ranging from the question of import and quality of the imported products to the question of protein plan, so that we can ensure a better supply situation across Europe. This federal government will do everything in its power – therefore also a thank you for the request that was made in the house this night and which will also provide us with the legal basis for the implementation and possibility of compensation and the financing of the measures. On the issue of organic farming: More money will be available for Austrian organic farmers with this budget. In the field of the environmental programme, funding for organic farming is extended. Ladies and gentlemen! There is more resources with the ÖPUL 2000. We are currently expecting a total of 1.56 billion schilling to be spent on organic farming. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For organic farming, of course, other promoters are also available, investment promotion, just to give an example. It is true that we have made a reduction of around 20 percent in the area of organisation support, but, Mr Pirklhuber, you know that up to 120 million schillings are available for consulting activities under the environmental programme and that this pot of course is also available to organic farming organisations, however, depending on the quality of the projects. They also know that the Ministry that I am already in discussions with the organic farming organisations, as these resources can also be used by the bioorganisations. You can therefore assume that I will continue to make sure, as before, that organic farming in Austria can continue to take on a positive development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the European perspective addressed by several speakers. I would ask you to note that this federal government, which has been a member of the European Union since Austria, has contributed and changed European policy in essential areas. Agenda 2000 would not look as it looked, for example, if Austria had not set impulses in terms of environmental orientation and the creation of the second pillar. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The European model of agriculture would not look like that, for example towards sustainability, surface coverage, ecological orientation, multifunctionality, had not Austria strongly raised and designed its voice. And this will also be done in the future, must do more and more, together with others, so that we can correct wrong developments that are undoubtedly there. However, I would like to point out that, ladies and gentlemen – and I would ask you to see it this way – that there should not be artificially carried out to Austria by maldevelopments in other regions. I don't let Austrian agriculture do bad, because I know the farmers are working well.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3215	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3250	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let me briefly refresh my colleague Achatz's short-term memory before I come to the environmental points, after she quickly identified Gitti Edererer as a culprit for the BSE crisis. [[Abg. Achatz: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Yes, but you did that very well. Is it really clear to you that since 1986 the ÖVP has been putting agriculture ministers in this country and, with Commissioner Fischler, has a very decisive influence on EU agricultural policy? Do you remember from the liberals that a week ago your minister, chief, defended the feeding of animal meal on farm animals here in this house and elsewhere? And now you're making yourself up here and presenting yourself as a savior in the evening country. It can be, please, not true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That was massive criticism of your coalition partner, which you have spoken here. What would interest me very much, Mrs Colleague: What concrete proposals have been made Are you? How's it going to go on? [[Abg. Achatz: You didn't watch that! I've seen that in the past!]] If there are constructive proposals from your side, then we are willing by SPÖ to support them because we also see the BSE crisis as a major unresolved problem of agricultural policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Ms. Achatz is still in the opposition role!]] [[Call of the Abg. Achatz.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You are in the government, not us!]] Now to the environmental chapter. The budget debate is always an opportunity to take a little account of environmental policy in this case. Unfortunately, her report on environmental protection, Mr Molterer, is rather disillusioning. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] . I would like to talk about environmental policy now, and we can then continue this agriculture-query fight. I would like to talk about climate protection. There is still no mandatory plan of action in Austria, as we want to achieve the Kyoto objective, but only a kind of wish paper from your resort, Mr Minister, which mentions an additional funding requirement of 1.25 billion schilling a year. We have always criticised this paper as rather laborious, but we are glad to note that there is at least something about how to achieve this Kyoto goal in the future. After a brief look at the budget, however, it is unfortunately necessary to note that only 75 million schillings are planned in addition to resources for climate protection. That is, you do not achieve your own, the goal you have set. My question is now, after years of climate protection: How do you really want to achieve the Kyoto target, and does it not just stay from your side with lip confessions? Even after the failed summit of The Hague, you have always said: Yes, work must continue in Austria, we must continue! But then there is not even enough money to actually implement the paper presented by your department. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My impression is that Austrian climate policy has been in a certain mill for a long time: It is obvious that regulatory measures such as a truck toll or an eco-tax are not trusted, and there is not enough money for the promotion approach you have chosen. But now it is really high time – we write the year 2000 – that you show a way out of this situation, otherwise this will never go out until 2008. With regard to financial compensation, which I see as a really important instrument in terms of climate protection, in order to take the countries a bit into the duty to implement climate protection measures, the commitment of housing funds has been opened up in two directions. Yes, one has written in the Kyoto target, that is positive, but on the other hand it also says that in the future the funds of housing support may be used for infrastructure measures. Unfortunately, my rather gloomy forecast is: Roads will be built mainly which will not do anything to protect climate change, and there will probably be no money left for the Kyoto target. And I just think that's a gross failure from your side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: conservation and renewal measures!]] We can now hope for this, but I think it is a wrong policy to make these funds available in both directions, rather than simply to write down targeted "housekeeping measures to achieve the climate change objective". Who benefits from the best climate protection goal if you still don't know in Austria and have no idea how to ever achieve it? I would just like to say briefly, because I was in The Hague also in the presentation of the German colleagues' climate protection programme, as a positive example: There were mainly economic operators, contracting companies, windmill operators there. They all stood there with a bright eye and explained to us how many jobs are created by means of climate protection initiatives, how much money they will earn, and what positive economic and technological impulses come from this German climate protection programme. With us in Austria, it is simply still a annoying attachment, which you want to somehow put in a corner with promotion measures, and you have not yet seen what positive economic impulses can bring climate protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next point: anti-atomic work. There the Temelin nuclear power station was certainly the dominant topic last year. I am actually very glad that the Federal Government has finally woken up after a long delay and sawdust and was able to get through to certain activities in relation to temelin. However, I must say that the approach taken by Schüssel and Zeman at the last summit goes in the completely wrong direction. At this summit it was agreed that there should be a review of the Temelin nuclear power station by the European Union, only when there are uniform European safety standards for nuclear power plants. The Federal Chancellor meant that this was the case at the end of the year. As it comes to this overly optimistic assumption, I am completely enigmatic, because we all know that there may never be uniform security standards at EU level, because some countries are massively opposed to such safety standards. A proposal paper, a basis for discussion, should be available at most by the end of the year. It is therefore questionable whether there will ever be this safety standard. My impression of this whole story was that we simply tried to move the Temelin problem to the EU level in order not to have to get around in the country. I believe that this is really the wrong approach! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The packaging target regulation is really a single defeat. In this way, you have effectively killed the multi-way system in this country, and unfortunately you have not been able to get through to create a one-way tax. They have put the course in the completely wrong direction. The sale of the Federal Forest was also mentioned for the sake of completeness here. I think this is totally irresponsible, Mr Minister, and it is a mystery to me how you, as Minister for the Environment, can agree to the sale of forest to stop the budget hole. Especially you should be the strong voice of the environment in the Federal Government. Mr Federal Minister, in this respect you are unfortunately a real disappointment!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3399	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Count. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3421	Mr President. Mr. Federal Environment Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, dear young people, who are here today, because it also affects this budget directly, with regard to climate-related measures! I am referring to the environmental budget, and I assume that the criticism you have expressed over the last few days of the last few days of the last few days is justified by the savings measures we have taken, namely that we have a mountain of debt to clear up a budget deficit that you have left us. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: For this we are the third-richest country!]] You can still talk so much, unfortunately! However, Mrs Edlinger, the new Federal Government is on the best way – it is also the subject of the environment, Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger, – with the course taken, despite the saving course, to focus on the most important environmental areas and to take regulatory measures in the field of the environment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Bartenstein is responsible for the failure of environmental policy! Everyone really knows that!]] Mr Edlinger! If I recall the first meeting at Österreichische Gemeinalbored AG at the end of 1999, where a corresponding report was available, that the cover of the funds you have already promised did not take place despite your consent, I can only tell you here and today: [[Abg. Edlinger: That was wrong!]] Environmental policy has been and seems not to be of concern to you. [[Abg. Edellinger: Oh, you! Oh, you!]] We all need to know, please! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's right!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé) That's wrong! He knows!]] Nevertheless, this Federal Government has now been able to provide appropriate funding for environmental promotion, in particular for operational environmental promotion. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Please listen carefully now, you will learn that these funds will now be made available: in 2000: 475 million schilling, in 2001: 550 million schilling, in 2002: 650 million schilling. 90 percent of these operational environmental promotions are carried out in climate-related measures alone. Why? – If you were to read the headlines in the newspapers and follow the current policy a little bit, you would know why. ==References====External links== November 2000 to read: "The warmest century since a millennium." Since the start of the direct measurements of air temperature in Vienna, in 1775, we have the warmest year to expect, is here. It would not be bad, however, to heat less. But what's going on? We are dealing with cyclones in Europe, there are floods in Europe along with them, and all that our young people will have to do then will have to do is try to get to the right place with regulatory measures. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Edellinger as well as call:And there's the SPÖ to blame on it! I'm to blame for it.]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now I will tell you something that you will not be pleased at all, Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Edellinger as well as a call:I take note that I am guilty of global warming]] It is indeed true that these energy-promoting measures, as far as the new energies are concerned, have already been implemented in Carinthia by Dr. Jörg Haider, who is especially appreciated by you, in 1989 and have been subsequently taken over by all other Austrian states. In Carinthia, therefore, regulatory measures for energy promotion have been taken, as have other countries. Considering that such funding causes investments of a ten- to fifty-fold value of energy promotion, the balance sheet shows that the additional 30 000 new jobs in Austria in the field of the promotion of domestic energy sources that grow in us. The new Federal Government is also aware of the responsibility it has towards youth in particular. But there is also one thing to say: We cannot, of course, jump across the EU. I have read last week that energy Commissioner Loyola de Palacio has called nuclear power plants a security of supply for climate protection and, accordingly, wanted nuclear power plants to be included in the category "climate-related measures". In view of this, one can only get bad. I would like to join Mr. Federal Environment Minister Mag. Thanks to Molterer for being able to draw attention to the fact that this was a completely wrong path in The Hague, too. I would like to congratulate you, Mr Federal Minister, on the success you have achieved, namely that nuclear power plants are not considered to be climate-related measures. Because we are in the field of nuclear power plants, I would particularly like to address the problem of Temelin and to make a proposal here. It should first be said, however, that thanks primarily apply to the citizens' initiatives and to all sincere citizens who have drawn attention to this problem. But I would also like to thank Mr Molterer and Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel for their efforts to put the whole subject at an objective level. An objective level means finding appropriate steps for the future regarding the Temelin nuclear power station. If the Czech Republic and the Czech nuclear power plant operators claim that everything is all right in the Temelin nuclear power plant, then there would be nothing against putting this statement on the Internet, not only in language, but also in an overview of the tax guard and the control instruments of Temelin itself. Today, with any PC program, it is possible to take an insight into a control guard without being able to intervene directly in the controls via remote control possibilities. The success would be that anyone who has an Internet connection could see the tax guard in Temelin. The Czech Republic could give evidence of the truth that there are no disturbances, and everyone could observe it accordingly. I think that would be a very good way for everyone to gain a direct insight into the Temelin nuclear power station. However, it should not, of course, be deceived that there is basically no safe nuclear power station and therefore à la longue has to be made an exit from the peaceful use of nuclear power with the path we have taken through renewable energy sources. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At this point I refer to the new Austrian Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, which the new Federal Government presented to the National Council in July. It was also decided here with the SPÖ votes. I believe that precisely the point that each customer will have the composition of the primary current by way of production on his account is a very great success for the future, so that it can also be decided from which electricity generators or from which electricity suppliers one will purchase the electricity. [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's what I'm looking at!]] The pantograph therefore has to decide for himself which company it will order to supply electricity for himself, and can therefore exclude the nuclear current for the future. This too is a success of the new Austrian Federal Government. It is thus on the right path to the right goal. Of course, you can't do everything right. For example, Mrs Mag. Sima in an interview with the "Small Newspaper": "The environmentalists came tears at the climate summit. The inhabitants of a number of island states have the water to their necks." And she also complained that we were not doing anything for climate protection. I must say, ladies and gentlemen: We could do the tenfold, the twentyfold, the hundredfold for climate protection, now and now and immediately, we would not have the great mortgage of this debt burden, which lies on us, which, in the interests of young people and in order to set regulatory measures for the future, must be paid off. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] From these circumstances, the Federal Government has done what was really possible, and I would like to thank you very much for that. I congratulate you on this, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3614	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3646	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with an argument, Mr Graf has referred to the head of state in Carinthia and has stated that I am very valued by Mr Haider, who has said this and that. I am actually correct in saying that I do not appreciate Mr. Haider at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3716	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. The clock is set to 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3738	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Graf, are you still there? - Yes, you're still there! Budgetary policy is not only a matter of figures but also a matter of priorities. Their priorities in relation to the environmental budget are worthy of being presented again. They celebrate the success of spending 75 million schillings in addition to climate protection, but in the next few years, I guess, almost 30 billion schillings will be added to the defense budget: 4.5 billion schilling for the Eurocorp, and between 24 and 57 billion schilling for the interception hunters. As far as the size comparison is concerned, it is very absurd that we then stand here and celebrate 75 million schilling in addition to climate protection, although, as we all know, we need much more. In fact, it is sufficient to present your environmental priorities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The theme that moved us most this year and that will move us further was the border nuclear power station Temelin. Today, we Greens have addressed us with an open letter to Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel, who will meet with Czech Prime Minister Miloš Zeman next week. However, we have received very worrying reports about the content of this conversation. It is marked by a scandalous deal – we have experienced this from the Czech Republic – and it is clear that the Federal Chancellor will give up the required line, namely that Temelin must prove the state of the art in order to influence our position at EU negotiations and that the Czech side will give up the offer, an environmental impact assessment without an operating stop – without stopping operations! – to achieve a consensus between Austria and the Czech Republic. I now ask you, in particular the colleagues from the FPÖ: How do you assess – after we have adopted a clear position here in the House of Lords on Temelin, after we have established the line mentioned in months of negotiations and discussions – that the Federal Chancellor next week intends to leave this line against all the stranger and – I know this – all the fears expressed in countless letters that come to us every day – not only with us but also with them? [[Abg. Head: How do you know?]] I think this deal is being prepared for a scandal. Today, we have addressed this in an open letter to Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel, and I expect that before replacing the Austrian position on this issue with a lazy compromise, we will have discussions here in the House that environmental speakers will be contacted that contact will be made with the nuclear opponents before this crash occurs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the balance sheet of environmental policy. I have already mentioned the priorities. I would like to ask you once again, in the direction of the FPÖ: Where is your manuscript in Austrian environmental policy? – With the Minister of Agriculture Molterer, I am clear from many of his statements made in recent years where he stands. I know his position on genetic engineering promotion. As far as waste policy is concerned, the EDP has slept a lot, and now we can see the end of a very worrying development. But as far as the FPÖ is concerned, I am very surprised, especially since Mrs Achatz once again made the others responsible for it very emotionally this morning. I ask you: Where have your initiatives remained throughout the consumer protection and food sector? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: In the current years we have always set up initiatives!]] What has become of the SOS food problem that we have very massively addressed last year? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Read the protocols!]] What about the fact that antibiotics are still contained in animal feed? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You must look into the protocols of the past years!]] I have not heard any initiative by the liberals in recent months. What about the mass animal husbandry that FPÖ has greatly facilitated this year by agreeing that legal provisions are no longer applicable to many farms? Where's the FPÖ's manuscript? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We have reduced the maximum limits for mass animal farming!]] I have to say: I am personally very disappointed that you have always promised something and then not kept it. Either these have only been pure lip confessions, or you have completely failed in this government. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why don't you work with the truth?]] They have not left behind any environmental manuscript. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Incorrectly informed!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: It is not for you to work with the truth!]] I am working exclusively with the truth, Mr Schweitzer. If you want to lie to me here, I ask the President to intervene now. I would like to focus briefly on the remaining environmental issues that are currently affecting us. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I remember the letters, the untruth, the lie that was printed!]] Mr President. I'm going to lie here! Maybe you can turn it off in some form. We all have other political...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3909	Mr Schweitzer! Has You need this expression? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Please?]] I would ask you to take the expression back if you needed it. [[Abg. May. Mr Schweitzer: I can prove this, Mr President.]] Mr Schweitzer, I would like to give you a call for an order for the expression "lying", because that is not a matter of truth. [[Abg. May. Mr Schweitzer: I can prove this, Mr President.]] Yes, you can say "untruth," but you can't call a member of this house a liar. That's a 30-year practice. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have not even heard it, Mr President!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I did not call them a liar, I spoke of "lying"!]] The call for order has been given. You are speaking, Mrs Dr Glawischnig.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4008	Thank you, Mr President. – Mr Schweitzer, you are happy to speak and enter an environmental debate. At the moment, I am missing useful contributions to the environmental policy of the liberals. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A problem child in Austria, which we have not yet discussed and where we really find a desperate situation, is nature conservation in Austria. While, in other areas, we may be able to see critically the EU accession and the legislation that we had to adopt, we have an exemplary European Union regulation in this area, Mrs Achatz. The disastrous balance sheet: Austria has 21 infringement proceedings in this area. I believe that it is no longer possible to say that the European Union owes itself to the fact that our environmental standards have lowered, but Austria itself is responsible. Most of these 21 environmental procedures are nature conservation procedures, and this is particularly regrettable because I believe that many people in Austria are extremely important to nature conservation and a corresponding protection policy in view of also the endangered species of animals and plants in our country. We have now discussed this, and we also have the sad record that almost all nature conservation laws, hunting laws, fishing laws, flur-constitutional laws are EU-absorbing. I would ask you, in an area where the European Union is a pioneer in Austria, to also ensure that we comply with the relevant laws and also protect the species of animals and plants concerned, to protect them, and that there are no economic interests, lobby interests, priority over nature conservation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Climate protection has already been addressed. We spent a week in The Hague together with the Minister for the Environment: The fact that many states really have the water to their necks and that we cannot, of course, reduce the CO2 pollutant so far that the small island states, the many states suffering from droughts that have more and more droughts, are being helped, that is certainly clear, Mr Graf, but I think it cannot leave us out of the responsibility. We have worked massively there that states like the USA, but also Japan, as well as Europe, are in some way getting involved in this climate change policy. This cannot leave us out of the responsibility to implement national measures in our own country. We also know that it is employment-intensive, it is economic-friendly, it is innovation-friendly, a fresh cell cure for our economy. So it is really too little to estimate 75 million schilling in the budget and to delegate the rest to the countries. This deserves a smooth five when expressing it in school language, for climate policy in the budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Why don't you say 550?]] Water protection policy: Whatever is annoying and excruciating me is that we are working with the enemy of the European Union again. – Even there we did not do some homework in the country. In this context, I would like to mention once again the environmental impact assessment. There is no need for very, very large water withdrawals to be subject to EIA, and the legal reorganisation has de facto opened up for commercial recovery. You can hear it completely declared as a goal: Parts of the water treasure must be mobilised economically. This also says our Environment Minister in a very, very direct way, and on the other hand, again in Brussels or in various small-format magazines of water protection as the Austrian red-and-white-red flag is kept up-to-date. – So, you already have to have a serious concept of how to deal with water protection policy in Austria in some way, and you should not do cheap populism there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Where is the proposal? You want to collect the water in tanks?]] Finally, the BSE problem: Late insight, I have to say, late insight! – Last year after the dioxin scandal in Belgium, we presented the problems in Austrian food and consumer protection policy, agricultural policy, environmental policy linked in the "SOS food" package; the liberals supported almost all the points at that time. But until today they have not implemented any of these points, and somehow they seem to forget that they also bear government responsibility, and do not realize that one cannot constantly put the blame on the SPÖ that has made a budget policy that has not fit them. I think it is really high time to take on a certain responsibility in the areas of environmental protection, animal welfare and agricultural policy. With surprise I have also read the first requests from your ministers, i.e. concerning the controversial question with the pets, with the traps, with the confiscats in the feed. Just as every year before, Federal Minister Sickl has said to her predecessor that this is valuable protein food, we do not do it. The same applies to the prohibition of animal meal and the prohibition of antibiotics. All these points were therefore simple announcements, and I am deeply disappointed personally, because this is at the expense of consumers and also at the expense of the organic farmers. By the way: This measure to reduce bio-verbands is a purely disciplinary measure. [[Abg. Zweytick: Nothing shortened!]] These are independent associations which cannot be integrated politically. In other associations, on the other hand, the funds are increased, and I should like to explain why the critical associations, which were, so to speak, the lubrications in this whole pioneering role of the organic farming in Austria, were cut short. This is a purely political discipline measure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my opinion, this is a very sad balance, but it was already foreseeable. In the Government Agreement between the two parties, ÖVP and FPÖ, there was a sentence that reads as follows: Prohibition to go beyond EU minimum standards. – Prohibition to go beyond EU minimum standards: This is a relinquishing of the pioneering role of Austrian environmental policy, as it has been in recent years of political consensus. I would also like to point this out to you, Minister Molterer, that you are following up the government agreement with this clear objective – environmental protection, consumer protection, animal welfare, everything that harms Europe's economy; Minimum implementation of directives, no more pioneering role, no more pre-pressing, which is also very, very important to economic and innovation policy. In concrete policy, the results of the disaster are already clear. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4107	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4128	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the real issue of the environment, still to the previous debates, especially on product labeling "Made in Austria", a few sentences. I believe it was a special achievement for the economy as a whole, to have created this "A", "Made in Austria", because, I believe, we have done a good job so that Austrian products and Austrian value added and thus the Austrian economy have been well served. Logically, I can come to the point of food! – in today’s networking, in today’s globality of production, there is no such thing as a 100 percent added value in the country, and this is why the more than 50 percent added value in the country has been reduced to 75 percent in food for some time. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Food!]] Of course, in connection with the BSE scandal, it is now time to re-examine the matter, and it was the economy which, given this problem and the history of the development of this problem, which is not in the country, immediately – already last week! – has responded and removed this product label, this designation of origin from the market, which the food arrives. One has therefore responded immediately and has ensured that this in itself meaningful mark of quality and origin is not misused. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, I very much welcome the immediate reaction of the Federal Government – including financial damage, of course, priority in agriculture – and the fact that funds from the disaster fund – which will not be enough – are provided in order to prevent the gross damage. But I am already drawing attention to the fact that, of course, the economy must insist on the fact that the same applies also to feed manufacturers – i.e. companies active in the commercial sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But now on environmental policy and also on some statements made earlier, especially by the two so very disappointed environmental representatives of the opposition parties. I remember a statement by Mr Glavischnig last week in this place where she found – I hope she is not sorry today – that we in Austria are a model country in Europe as far as the real environmental situation is concerned. I therefore understand the criticism expressed today by two opposition spokesmen. The fact is that we have been able to achieve this standard with a mix of regulatory measures and support measures to an insignificant extent – yes, I would like to say: to a very high degree – in Austria, with the greatest effort by all those involved. If today we have a total environmental budget and environmental support budget of over 6 billion Schillings in the next year's budget, I wonder, Mrs Glawischnig and Mrs Sima, where your dissatisfaction is concerned. Please do not forget crocodile tears on the topic of Kyoto program! I have done just as much as my colleague, Count, did in the Council of Common Credit Ministers. There it was the then Socialist Minister of Finance Edlinger, who has blocked over months the additional tranche of 100 million Schilling's environmental support, which was precisely reserved for Kyoto-relevant, climate protection-related measures, and we have not been able to disburse the funding for projects already in place. That is the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: That's how it looks!]] So if you are already criticising, please do so at the right place, not at our environmental ministers, who have been following these funding amounts for months and therefore had to beg the Ministry of Finance for some time, while the Minister of Finance has blocked them for months. [[Abg. Edlinger: He was economical!]] Yeah, it's economical. The Members are now criticising too little expenditure in the field of climate protection promotion. It was you, Mr Edlinger, who tried to prevent these promotions from trying to prevent God from being successful. Ladies and gentlemen! Again on climate protection and Kyoto programme. The government presented a very ambitious programme weeks ago. It was not least the spokesperson of the Greens, Mr Van der Bellen, who explicitly praised this programme to the Federal Government on climate protection. I therefore do not understand at all from what point you are taking, a few weeks later, the threat of criticizing this programme. How do you even get this idea? I don't know. Do you have such different positions on this topic? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: How do you get that?]] I would like to bring them the APA notification if you wish, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I'm asking for this!]] I'd like to take them to your place afterwards. A brief summary of the environmental budget, environmental support. – I believe that we have not only a very ambitious programme as regards the content and the projects, but also very ambitious projects in the financial field. In view of the fact that we are otherwise forced to save – why, that has already been debated in good time – it is all the more remarkable, Mr Federal Minister, that you have succeeded in ensuring a budget in this scale for the environment. 6.3 billion schilling is not a small thing, I would like to highlight it very much. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] One thing seems so important to me from the point of view of the economy in this context, to be stressed again: These 6.3 billion schillings are suitable to trigger job-creating and job-saving investments in the order of about 20 billion schilling. I wonder, Where are there similar effective support programmes – i.e. effective in the direction of the entire economy, towards the employment situation – as in the environmental field? It is something special to be able to see at this point in a budget debate, which is actually about saving, saving, saving, that this budget has even experienced an expansion. Mr Federal Minister, congratulations on the success of the budget negotiations! I am convinced that this will create an even better environmental situation in Austria and that we will be able to achieve special successes for our economy as a whole. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4246	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4267	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the environmental budget, as honourable Member's head has just noted, could be expanded despite a restrictive budget price. This is also a clear signal of the importance of this Federal Government's environmental policy. The priorities of this budget are obvious: This is, of course, the question of climate change policy, which is the question of the settlement of the water industry, which is the question of old-age rehabilitation, and that is the fourth strategy in the national parks. However, because the environmental policy of the Federal Government has been discussed virtually exclusively today, I am very happy to take up this key word, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to take this balance very briefly. We have decided a novel of plant law with EIA and IPPC implementation. Like a biocidal product law, the opposition has also been widely accepted. We have decided on the transformation of the Water Law Law into the Waste Management Act, a long-term environmental policy call. We have been able to expand national areas. We were able to reopen the Thayatal National Park. On Saturday, the Kalkalpen National Park will be expanded by 2,000 hectares. We have finally been able to sign the Alpine Convention with the Transport Protocol; a long-standing call for many environmental politicians. I succeeded, we succeeded in making this signature. This year we decided on a special tranche in the urban water industry, and additional funds for it. We have a law on electricity management and organisation, which provides a new and additional opportunity for biomass and electricity from sustainable resources – by the way, we are pleased by many, including opposition politicians. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] We are in the process of extending and optimising biomass production between the two budget chapters of the environment and agriculture. This year, we have been able to provide additional funds for the old-age rehabilitation with the ALSAG-Novelle, which was decided in the budget accompanying law. We have taken a new path with the beverage regulation, also a new environmental policy, ladies and gentlemen, because, as I am convinced, modern environmental policy must consist of three components: regulatory measures, promotion measures and concepts of voluntary agreement with the economy. The much praised presentation, Mrs Sima, the German colleague on the Kyoto process, shows that a very substantial part of the strategy is based on voluntary agreements with the economic sectors. You can't criticize what you praise there in Austria. That's not consistent! Now on the question of "Kyoto target": I would also believe that we have made progress in the Kyoto programme. I am also not satisfied with the implementation yet, I say quite openly, but that we have put our feet in the doorway in the financial compensation process and are now negotiating the details with the countries, is a breakthrough in the Kyoto question. You know that, too, Mrs Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Also with regard to Kyoto programme and international activities: I acknowledge that we have cooperated very well in The Hague, but I ask you to say what you said in The Hague, here as well. I now quote – I don't know if it was literally said so –: We have been praised by many NGOs as Austrian representatives for reaching, in terms of Kyoto, the exclusion of nuclear energy from the flexible mechanisms CDM and Joint Implementation in the EU's Nuclear Energy Position. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that, in the end, the global result, which I hope will be achieved next year, will also come to the realization and the final breakthrough. I believe that we have a subject in front of us with Kyoto, where we all have to take a solid common line, and we also have to go new ways, not only in terms of promotion, but also in the end we need to create economic incentives beyond promotion, such as energy contracting, such as mobility management in transport. In conclusion: The nuclear policy of this Federal Government, the anti-atomic policy, is unmistakable and clear, and this will also be the case, Mrs Glawischnig, in the discussions with the Czech Government. Leave It is therefore on the line of the Federal Government and not on rumors from the Czech side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4361	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and You know, ladies and gentlemen, the relevant GMO provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4385	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Her colleague Glawischnig has already said several times that a slutting in the liberal club had not given her an essential invitation to a meeting on the topic of Alpine Convention and therefore she would have been prevented from participating in it. Here you can also read: "This is a scandal! Schweitzer deliberately abstained from this invitation." I am no longer saying, Mr President, that this is a lie. I withdraw this with the expression of regret. However, I prove that this is the untruth, Mr President. I have several fax protocols here that prove that this invitation to my colleague Glawischnig has been received in time and had the opportunity at any time to participate in this meeting in Germany.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4424	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4448	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to remind honourable Members of the fact that the ÖVP has been in the government for 14 years and that you can therefore address the criticism of yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: What did I say?]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are massive savings in all areas in the 2001 budget, but these are particularly important in the lower incomes sector. It is noted that in Chapter 60, agriculture, not reduced, this budget was increased by 2.3 billion schilling. In addition, however, 700 million Schillings were made available for co-financed support for the year 2000. Federal Minister! They now have the possibility of introducing a base amount which would enable the existence of many small-scale families. You know exactly, Minister of State, how important the benefits of these family farms are, which ensure the protection and conservation of attractive habitats and recreation. But above all, you would now have the opportunity to make financial resources available to secure the workplace. It is incomprehensible for us Social Democrats that you, Mr. Federal Minister, are going back to hectares. This opinion, ladies and gentlemen, is also Deputy Chancellor Riess-Passer. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Look here!]] It says, according to a press release, that there is no guarantee of social security in the agricultural sector and that there is a need to do something in this area. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Why doesn't she?]] - Yeah. – But she also believes that one should give the little ones a survival aid and that the big ones should get less for it. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this opinion was contradicted by the ÖVP Farm Federal Director Franz Ledermüller. He said that the proposals of the Vice-Chancellor on agricultural and forestry support would only prove insufficient expertise and seamlessly integrate into the many FPÖ tax and budget cut-off plans. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Oh!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That's where the farmers go!]] Mr Ledermüller also said that, in the sense of constructive budgetary and economic planning, FPÖ would be well advised to close this bazaar of inexhaustible proposals, so that the Member Theresia Zierlerher boss immediately defended by saying: We must ensure that small farmers do not get poorer and poorer until they finally disappear! Ladies and gentlemen! The simple member of the party from Carinthia also advocated a social reform of EU funding for farmers and said: At present the farmers are: The bigger – the more favored. And he continued: We will not subsidize the counties in Marchfeld and let the small farmers go before the dogs. [[Abg. Kermaier: But those in Carinthia!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: But they do!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These were statements made by Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer and the simple member of the party, Haider, who, of course, were made before the Styrian elections. It is therefore unsolicited suffrages and therefore suffrages. And the whole thing isn't worth more than the hoop into the trash. Federal Minister! It is still incomprehensible that, despite the massive increase of 2.4 billion schilling, it was only for 2002 or perhaps even for 2003 that there was a willingness to introduce social staggering for the mining industry and farmers in disadvantaged areas. [[Abg. Zweytick: There is no social staggering!]] So it is up to you, Mr Federal Minister, to implement those promises which you have already given to the 1999 budget debate, but also to the 2000 budget, namely the social and fair distribution of budget resources, so that opportunities for survival can be opened up for the miners and for the small farmers. Federal Minister! Stop You die by finally supporting the farmers financially!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4594	On a personal reply, which is possible when a member of the House is involved in the presentation of a corrected case, Mrs Glawischnig spoke. The personal response shall be limited to a brief description of the facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4618	Mr President. I was personally involved in the actual correction by Mr Schweitzer, and I am now presenting the facts as follows: We were elected on 25 May. A letter was sent by the President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Karl Schweitzer, on 9 September. It was an invitation from the German Bundestag, dated 1. ==References====External links== May the delegation be fixed in Austria on September 1. In the post-research period, it was found that: In the meantime the meeting had already been cancelled because Mr Schweitzer had been waiting for almost two months to send the letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4655	Mr Schwarzenberger, would you also like an actual correction? Did you report? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes!]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4687	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In her speech, Mrs Bauer stated that the amount of the base would not be paid until 2002 or 2003. - That's wrong! The compensation allowance for the year 2001 is based on the mountain farm disaster, the point system and the base amount.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4718	The next speaker is Mr Pistottig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4739	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour and I am proud to be able to talk about a budget chapter called forestry. If someone in the meantime doesn't know what that is: This is the area that makes up 50 per cent of Austria and which provides recreation to people, guarantees climate protection, healthy environment, pure air and pure water, and all that, as I mean, almost at zero rate. The performance of this forest is understood by people as if it were available to them at a zero rate. I would like to present you today with a mirror and a short balance sheet. We have a negative balance sheet, which is the damage to cracks, which rose from 45 to 48 percent, which is proven to be due to the stress of the wild. Because there is little rest in the forest due to the many people seeking relaxation, the game no longer goes out by day and thus damages the cultures. Likewise, the shale damage has increased by 77 percent, and this is a 1,500 hectar total damage, which is an immense value. The situation in forestry is positive. 14.1 million solid meters of wood were harvested. This is 0.5 percent more, with the small forest owners reaping by 2.6 percent more, the Federal Forests with 1.87 million fixed meters, which is 13.3 percent of the total harvest in Austria. The total turnover of the forest is 30.7 billion schilling. This corresponds to an increase of 16 percent. For the first time, we have generated around 4 billion schillings more than the entire tourism industry. Of 27.3 million fixed meters, only 70 percent are used, Mr. Pirklhuber, which should also contradict the fact that balds are taking place in the small rural forest. On the contrary: It grows much more than it is harvested. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We assume that all of this is, of course, at the zero rate, and I can therefore ask you here today: Do you know that a tree planted must be maintained for 100 years, so that it represents a value of about 1,500 s? Have you planted a tree before? Have you ever tried to raise a culture? I doubt it. At least that's what I've done. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Have you ever built a kilometre of forest road that costs 300 000 s in the construction and in which the annual cost of conservation is about 30 000 s? – This is also at zero rate for citizens. An old proverb says: What costs nothing is worth nothing. – This brings me to the budget, and here the forest budget is reduced by one percent of the total agricultural budget, i.e. 280 million schilling is coming from the federal government for the whole of Austria. If we add EU funds to these national funds, there will be 402 million schilling. That's less than last year. Federal Minister! Of course, the forest would need much more money. We understand your difficult situation, but you also understand our situation. We have a lot of money to pay, and it would be most urgent to do more, because if you have only 400 million schilling available and one of them will be scraped away by 20 million schilling, then this is particularly painful. If, therefore, you take this small budget as a contribution by the Forestry Minister, take it as their solidarity to re-establish the budget. I hope that in two years, more will be inside for the forestry industry. Ladies and gentlemen! I have had the experience here in this House that the forest is always worth your while and you notice that it should cost something if, for example, a debate about the Federal Forest is taking place because the sale of 3 percent of the Federal Forest also helps to reorganise this budget. I can tell you how a farmer thinks about it, and quote from a reader's letter. This farmer writes: "To the forest sales of the Austrian Federal Forest, I strongly advise the opponents to return to reality. The statements of certain political officials of sale, fence-up, step-by-step and balding of the forests are evidence of lay argumentation and misunderstanding. The fact is that, in the Forest Act 1975, each person may enter the forest for recreational purposes. I also ask the opponents where there are private forest, and that is 80 percent of the forest area of Austria, fences. The horrendous blows of the balds are just as nonsense in the hair, as the rulers seem never to have heard of the forest's regulatory plans." [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Mr Pistottig! Remember the paper I showed you!]] And by the way, it says: "In order to stay with reality, 3 per cent of the forest area of the Austrian Federal Forests is to be sold, as small as possible margins to farmers who are a guarantee of proper management of the forest. This is my unmistakable opinion." [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's what we're looking at!]] "P.S.: The masters of the SPÖ should prefer to kiss the soil of the Austrian forest and not let the Republic burn, otherwise our forest could still catch fire." No comment on this quote.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4796	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4817	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As an attentive reader of the monthly magazine "The Upper Austrian hunter" I may reply to you, Mr. Col.: In his foreword to the issue of last August, Mr. Landesjaudmeister in Upper Austria points out personally that very well the wild game is a key element that is responsible for the state, for the poor condition of forests, especially the protected forests. Mr President, I should like to thank Dear speaker! They could have been calmly honest and should not have called the stress of the wild a major factor due to increased leisure activities, but rather rather rather quite stoned and clearly said: Yes, the hunters too are guilty because they simply feed the game too much, because there is a surplus in the game because there are no firing plans. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's not true! There are legal firing plans!]] That only as a footnote to what you noticed here, and as an essential supplement and above all as an expression of appreciation for the Upper Austrian hunting newspaper, because here you get a very good insight into the deep psychology of certain circles. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Auer: The Hans Reisetbauer will thank you!]] Yeah, I know him personally, too. Thank you! But now on the real topic, on the core topic: Minister! This budget chapter is about the most important thing at all, namely the core of the life interests of all Austrians, the most vital of all areas of life. It's about radiation-free future, it's about maintaining the climate situation, it's about healthy nutrition, it's about healthy water. These are the core areas of each individual's life. Therefore, this area should be discussed much more centrally, not under the title "Agriculture", but under the following title: [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Ensuring the basis of life, safeguarding the environment, ensuring the framework conditions also for the economy and, above all, for the people in that country. Your answer here was partly - I say in part - very defensive. You have stated in your first statement that it is appropriate to correct mismanagements. I think it's up to you. They are likely to try to correct certain misdevelopments in the direction of industrial agriculture within the EU, in the direction of the in-short commensurate climate protection, but what I lack and what my colleagues have said very clearly, these are more decisive and hearty offensive concepts and implementation steps. I agree that some of the changes are made to the fact that there are also positive approaches, but in my opinion, there is a lack of essentials. I repeat it again: I miss a hearty approach to our neighbor in nuclear policy. This deal, Mr Minister, is being carried by Mr Bundeskanzler, I hope not by you, and I hope that you will take corrective action. I hope that, in cooperation with the Upper Austrian head of state, you, in particular, consider the promises your colleague made in Upper Austria to be mandatory and that you will be able to really stand up and act as a corrective when negotiations on an EIA are under way. An EIA must cover the entire nuclear power plant and above all provide an operating stop as a condition, otherwise it is not acceptable to us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also build on the fact that you still have a foot in the door during the EU accession negotiations and do not take this foot out of the door so that we are still open to the possibility of exerting pressure and also handing over negotiations to our Czech neighbours. That's very important. Next area: Climate. Mr Minister, there is no question: Biomass is being promoted, but it needs to be promoted even more. But: You or the Minister of Finance have given you a chance, perhaps you were too little on the press. The financial compensation is negotiated, and now you have to renegotiate. And the unpleasant thing about all the negotiations is: If something has already been taken, then it is very difficult to do after-negotiations. How, then, do you want to make the valuable national leaders, the valuable national finance providers, now generously allocate at least 4 billion schillings per year for all of Austria, to a Kyoto offensive programme, out of the billions, so to speak? With what instruments in the window, with which rod in the window do you threaten the national financial officer, you threaten the heads of state if you have already given them the way if they have free track if the purpose of housing promotion has been cancelled? [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] You've done this without junctimizing without asking: You're 4 billion schilling in the climate protection! - That's our criticism. That may have been your fault, too. Perhaps you have had too little time with your colleague, Mr Grasser. You might have been easier to achieve than you think, even with your party colleagues, who most of them are the national leaders and the national financial experts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The next area of life, which is also in your hands, is the groundwater, which is therefore partly also the drinking water. Minister, a little detail on the edge: According to my knowledge – I honestly admit, I did not review it – you still owe us the regulation on the measures that the head of state can adopt – § 33f Water Law Act. How can a head of state act towards groundwater restoration if the appropriate measures are avoided from your side? The decree is missing! There have been since July – I think it was 7th. July – the decision on the Novelle on the Water Law Act, § 33f, but for the implementation we still lack the decisive instrument. That's in your hand! So you could correct a misdevelopment. Please, do it! Do it fast and do it quickly! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, on the central issue of recent weeks, which unfortunately was the central issue of recent weeks, namely the field of nutrition, to the area of BSE. – Thank God we are better at this point in Austria. The background has already been explained by you, Mr Minister: We have a different structure of agriculture. – But we could better structure this differently structured agriculture even more differently if we could move much more offensively to the bio rail! The figures that my colleague Mr Pirklhuber mentioned show quite clearly: Half a billion of the funding will benefit from a very small area, namely 250 farms in Austria. This misunderstanding reflects exactly the misunderstanding between the First World and the Third World! In Austrian agriculture, the Third World is, as it were, the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the First World is these 250 shows or large businesses or industrial enterprises – no matter what they are called. "Agricultural holdings" can hardly be called them any more. These industries give you most of the resources, although they already have enough. The other farms, the small and medium-sized enterprises, do not give so much, although they would need it and although that is the way of Austrian agriculture, which you are constantly addressing in the EU – I hope at least – as a future impulse. Why Give You're not home anymore? This is the crucial point for me, and you will need to prove your credibility more effectively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the issue of credibility in relation to nutrition. – Minister! You know that control and labelling are the A and O for the confidence and for the safety of consumers. In this regard, you can do something in Austria, here you can correct wrong developments yourself. But what are you doing? – They design a federal laboratory and thus thin out the control possibilities. You yourself have informed in a request answer that the UBA has a global budget, a distributed operation. Similarly, it threatens the distributed control bodies, either in the veterinary field or in food control. Do something yourself! Gain You do not have a misdevelopment or correct it not only, but you eliminate this misdevelopment in the distribution strategy of these various control devices! Finally, I would like to make a constructive proposal to you as regards labelling so that Austrian production in the sense of Austrian agriculture is also increasingly perceived by Austrian consumers. I would like to make a motion for a resolution and ask all colleagues from ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ to agree to this request. [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! They owe this to consumers. We want to buy Austrian quality, but we want to know what we buy! Please accept this request, otherwise stay. Your policy on the placebo level, which means: "Eating beef goes to the plachutta." - That's too little for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4946	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Moser, my friends and friends, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Auer. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4970	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter of agriculture, as almost always, leads to an argument about a desired management in the countryside: here the small structured, manageable production, qualitatively impeccable, green, small and nice, a few cows, free running henderln, a few lovable swine, flowering meadows, satisfied farmers and farmers – with one word: the healing world. The healing world is praying for us from one side. Ladies and gentlemen! From the Greens come accusations like: mass production, the great moloch, the unfair distribution of funds. I say, ladies and gentlemen: Austria's agriculture is ecologically oriented, is manageable and is aware of its responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now a few facts to support this. Average number of dairy cows per holding in the EU: Austria: 8,4, United Kingdom: 70 pieces, ladies and gentlemen! - Or: the pig population. In Austria, on average 38 pigs are kept per holding; in the Netherlands: 723 pieces! Ladies and gentlemen! That is the reality, and with correspondingly low prices the Austrian farmer has to deal with whether it fits it or not! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: There is no average farmer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I claim, as long as the trade chains, the supermarkets praise meat and milk as curly offers, that we can make as much agricultural policy as we want, we are on the rise and ruin of this concentration of power in the supply of these supermarket chains and supermarkets! And the consumer can be planted and will pay the token permanently, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: But the conditions! You really need to change the framework conditions, that's it!]] Mr Pirklhuber: In Austria, production costs for a kilo of wheat amount to 2.40 p. I do not now mention the cheapest production facilities such as Argentina, Hungary or others. But let's compare with Germany-East: 1.61 S. And the product price in Austria is about 1.50 S to 1.55 S. – That's how it looks in reality! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Because the production compensation...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! All those critics who thought that EU agricultural policy had failed were also saying: This will certainly be true in some areas, but you have to be there in order to be able to change something there. This is the only chance there is to bring about positive changes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: You must say that to Mrs. Achatz!]] Another point: Especially from your side – I understand that; that is from the point of view of the opposition, because one is no longer in the government, perhaps also understandable – was explained that the farmers had cut off the budget positively, and in favour of the large farmers the workers, the so-called little man, would have to pay. [[the speaker looks towards SPÖ]] [[Abg. Brix: Not everyone!]] – What is the income development of the industrial worker in relation to agriculture? [[The speaker keeps a graphic up to date.]] – I can only say: We farmers would like us to see similar developments, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian farmer is exposed to competition in all agricultural markets. But where the competition does not work, these are the operating costs, ladies and gentlemen. What does it look like when I buy 1,000 pounds of soya scrap as a farmer, 1,000 pounds of commercial fertilizer and perhaps 500 litres of diesel fuel? What does the price look like when a large company in East Germany buys 100 000 litres of diesel at once? How does it look with the electricity price in Austria? Who gets the discount right away? The one referring to the great quantity, or the one referring to the small quantity? What is it like with many other comparisons? The small farmer never has the chance to get the same prices as anyone who buys in larger units. And how does it actually look when selling animals, ladies and gentlemen? The small farmer with 5 piglets, which he sells, receives a much worse price than someone who can deliver 100 pieces at a time, because in this case the transport operator or the meat industry only has to run one farm to get a truck train full. – This is the reality, and therefore the dreams, the absolutely desirable idealistic ideas are something yesterday! Opas Agriculture is unfortunately dead, there are no more, ladies and gentlemen! Very often, the economy and industry demand efficiency. And in this field of tension, the farmer has to exist. As he does, one can see that, and the consumer will also pay the token. The BSE tag should satisfy us all, ladies and gentlemen. Austria, on the other hand, has taken timely action, but now pays just as much as the other EU countries, where one did not want to hear. Another example is the French feed to which one has mixed oil, waste oil, or feed in Luxembourg where dioxins have been found. Ladies and gentlemen! Or [[The speaker holds a newspaper article entitled "Koteletts aus dem 4. Stock" in height]] What is it like with regard to the new ideas in Holland, where we want to feed 300 000 pigs, 200 000 laying hens and a million chickens in a so-called delta park on six floors? Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and also our Federal Minister, to point out this in the EU. I am not interested in the EU, for example, as the tractor seat has to be built, nor am I interested in the cucumbering regulation, I am interested in this point! [[The speaker refers to the above-mentioned newspaper article.]] There must be action and action must be taken. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! As I said, We must be in the EU to bring about changes on these issues. I am optimistic, because our Federal Minister Molterer has already made changes in many areas and has caused things that are different today than they were originally planned. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! There would also be the need for measures to be taken with regard to sewage sludge treatment, so that one day the time bomb could not have its effect as a ticking time bomb. It is not just a question of talking about cheap disposal, but of questioning: How does that look? What are the unknown dangers in these areas? Can it be assured with absolute certainty that one day the farmer will not be able to do what he wants because this problem of disposal can have a negative effect? Finally, I have a request to you, Minister of State. There would be a research project on phytosanitation. It is a matter of developing phytotechnology to clean up the flow of materials and to reorganise soils, waters, sludges and organic residues. Since the chapter "Technology" is on the agenda, Mr. Federal Minister, it would be necessary to work with your new colleague, Mrs. Forstinger, on appropriate measures for a pilot experiment. Federal Minister! I would ask you to make a real commitment so that such a project can be launched. Perhaps it would be possible to open up a new field of production for agriculture and put it into practice under the tag "Phytovalley". Despite all the difficulties, despite all the constraints of budgetary reorganisation, we are quite positive about the "agricultural" budget chapter and can agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5152	The next speaker was Mr Brix. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5173	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The presentation of the Federal Minister on the budget and the argument that the third strongest party in this country constantly needs to stress that she wants to renovate the budget is a very subjective, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, it is true that two thirds of the Austrians are very deeply involved in the government coalition in order to take away money from them and to give it special privilege – and this includes the privileged large farmers in agriculture. [[Abg. Hornek: Hupl!]] They make a redistribution from bottom to top by weakening the Austrians by taking the money away from them. This is your financial policy, for which you are acting and to which you are confessing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They do not seem to know who the operators in the old government were who have made sure that the debt has increased so significantly. [[Abg. Zweytick: We already know that! Minister Edlinger's sitting over there anyway!]] Take your government protocols to hand and see if there has been a single session of the Council of Ministers in which there has been no unanimity! Look After that, and then show it to the Austrians and tell them what you're really planning with them and how you've managed before! They are about to scrape the Austrians and prefer large farmers to the extent of 1.3 billion schilling. This is the policy of the Austrian People's Party with its government partner, the Freeman! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you were to take agricultural policy a little more seriously – seriously also in the sense of climate protection – then you would be acting for those farmers who really are making honest policies that are really producing what we are so proud of in Austria, which I am also proud of if I go shopping to the carnivores on Saturday, then you would increase the possibility of organic farming, and would promote it better. You should be more encouraged by the Vienna-based companies that are bringing organic products from regional production into Vienna under the climate protection project – for kindergartens, for hospitals and so on. But what are you doing, Minister of State? – You simply cut these projects by 20 percent. They don't value the small, honest farmer as much as the big one. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's just what you're saying!]] For you, even more so for the Great, and for the small farmers, as everywhere in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Auer has spoken about it – and I give you the right to do so – that the power lies with the supermarkets. But you chose a great partner! That's where Mr. Veit Schalle sits. Maybe you could talk to this partner so he might start thinking about whether he could not help the farmer. I'm very much in favour of helping the farmer, but I'm honest with that, and I know you're honest for it too. But talk to this partner about how to help the farmer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Auer: Dear friend, that was no different at the "consumer", that was nothing better there! Put 20 billion in the sand!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was no better at the "consumer"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I don't come around bringing two examples back from my hometown. You know, Federal Minister, we have 439 farms on 185 hectares of greenhouse space. You know the great concern about heating costs. They know that these businesses are no longer competitive in Europe if they are not helped. The city of Vienna has helped them once: for all Vienna companies with district heating, the district heating price has been significantly reduced. This is the best ecologically and is also very economic. But what happens to the other prices? [[Abg. Zweytick: hot with biomass!]] [[Abg. Auer: Proposal: reduce heating costs with biomass! A chance for climate protection! But they have a little more work!]] Second. If you can't help these plants in this way, Mr. Federal Minister, then perhaps you will succeed – or perhaps that party, which is fast at hand, to insult the President of the Federal Republic, but despite all speed, you have still not found a way to apologise to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany at the earliest – to create an opportunity for these Vienna employers to get at least a workforce so that they can reap their production. You know that we need labour from abroad. [[Abg. Auer: Now they get something!]] - No, you know they don't get anything. That's where the radi rots, although he's now from the glass house. Come out and look at it! There are cucumbers that you have to put. But you can't put them because you don't... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only in relation to the...!]] I'll take you to the farms, Mr. Federal Minister. In these establishments, workers are waiting for work. But I already know that the FPÖ is doing this restrictively and you have to do it so that Schüssel Bundeskanzler remains, then everything has to happen – no matter who pays everyone on it, also the Wiener Gärtner. But what do you care about 500 gardeners? [[Abg. Auer: They're just as important!]] What's the matter with you? – That doesn’t matter, just as you don’t care about the budget. God, I'm sorry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There would be a number of comments to be made, for example, in the Old Load Act, in which the innovation has now passed through so much that the mechanical-biological plants are not promoted, although this would have been done for the separation of waste. It would also be very important to say something about water, but there will still be enough opportunities to show it. Federal Minister! Support for our farmers is provided from our side. We will support you, whether the gardener is a farmer or a farmer's farm. But with an agricultural policy, which now has to assume that only the big ones are supported and that something is taken away from the little ones, we will deal critically. There will also be no consent from us.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5363	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Fallent. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5384	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Leikam: Here the Ottakringers will have a joy!]] Visions, which are recognised by many people alike and at the same time as targets, are designed to create new systems. Information, knowledge and awareness play a major role in this. In addition to politics, the media is also of great importance. Responsible and committed reporting is important. Dr. Hans Kronberger recognized this and granted it on 30 July. The Hans-Kronberger Environment Journalist Prize was held on November 4th. This award is awarded for excellent environmental reporting and is awarded 150 000 S. I congratulate Dr. Hans Kronberger on starting this award, congratulate the winners and thank you for having financed this prize himself. It is also a great concern to work on the basis of examples, to identify and search visionary ways and to present them to the public with the help of the media. Journalism must not be based on the basic rules that only bad news is good news, but it is conscious to pay attention to transporting positive examples. Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer underlined the importance of environmental and climate policy at her ceremony at the award ceremony. She literally said: Environmental policy is the most central area of the future. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Environmental protection means new technologies and opportunities, a sustainable economy, modern jobs for all and equal opportunities in our society. Now it is up to us to take up these opportunities, to be at the front and to help to break through the photovoltaics, wind energy, biomass, hydropower and hydrogen technology and fuel cells. In order to create work, we have to relieve the factor of work. To protect resources, we do not have to burden renewable resources. I will work to ensure that sustainable policies of ecobonous systems are characterised in a wide range of areas. We must succeed in exploiting the positive effects of employment and thus making the Austrian social system sustainable. We must succeed in strengthening the Austrian economy and ensuring prosperity, health, peace and quality of life permanently. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has committed itself to achieving the climate change objective. I am committed to achieving this objective exclusively through national measures. I see the measures under the so-called flexible mechanisms as an additional way of contributing to climate protection globally. If we succeed, you'll see. I think if we all work hard, then we can succeed. Ladies and gentlemen! Climate protection cannot be operated by simply moving up and down CO2 volumes on paper, arguing about formalisms and formulating targets in the field of measurement and accounting errors. The Austrian climate strategy provides for measures in the areas of space heating, electricity and heat generation, waste management, transport, industry, agriculture and forestry. We want to achieve this goal through a balanced mix of instruments consisting of regulatory measures, public support and investment, economic measures, pilot projects and information campaigns and awareness-raising. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is important to ensure that the ElWOG, which was decided, is implemented and that housing development is redesigned according to energetic criteria. Everyone should know that around 50 billion schilling will be used for environmental measures, climate protection measures. The aim is to arrange spaces according to the principle of proximity and conservation of structures, to go new decentralized ways in the area of settlement water management and to clean up old loads. The aim is to implement the rural development programme, in which numerous rural measures are planned and for which around 40 billion schilling are available. Ladies and gentlemen! To make rural areas sustainable, that is environmental protection. We will also endeavour to operate contract nature protection under the Natura 2000 programme because we know that the desire to preserve fauna and flora means environmental protection. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One of the biggest environmental scourges is the sharp increase in noise in our time, in our society. Therefore, it will be necessary in the future to avoid noise sources and to limit existing noise sources. Noise protection is also environmental protection. Environmental and climate protection are cross-border global issues. That is why we will be committed to maintaining the principle of unanimity in the areas of environmental, water and energy management, spatial planning and forest and soil management, for we say: Subsidiarity is environmental protection. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will also work for a non-atomic Europe. Temelin and the countless nuclear power plants of the EU Member States have no place in a sustainable Europe. We say: The energy transition means environmental protection. We will continue to work for the fight against global poverty through development policies and a fair distribution of resources in our world, because we also see poverty reduction as environmental protection. But we reject what SPÖ and Greens do: They preach water and drink wine. In Germany, they allow 32-year-long exit scenarios from nuclear energy, which mean nothing but 32-year guarantee declarations for these nuclear power plants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] They prevent biomass projects in the communities, because, as I know, you usually vote against it because it is impossible to estimate the additional costs of the population. They cause traffic jams by block actions. We reject this kind of policy, because it means environmental destruction! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Germany has model function here worldwide! You know that! That's green progress!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Former Federal Chancellor Vranitzky said: People with visions need a doctor. – I say to you: People with visions need a government that implements these visions! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it has now become clear to everyone what Vice Chancellor Susanne Riess-Passer meant when she said that environmental policy is the most central area of the future. Albert Schweitzer said: I am primarily interested in the future, for that is the time in which we will live. – I am also primarily interested in the future. Let us therefore, through a new consciousness, set the course in this direction of sustainability! Let us also re-rule in this area of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5497	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5519	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Fallent, I am sure that the Greens would have had more pleasure if the nuclear exit plan in Germany had been implemented faster. But I just want to tell you one thing: If there were still a conservative-liberal government in Germany, then one would discuss whether new nuclear power plants are being built, and then we would probably only talk about what should happen to nuclear power in 100 years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: I don't think so!]] Of course, it is a long exit, but it is at least an exit route, and that has not been achieved by the former governments in Germany in any way. Federal Minister Molterer! I would just like to look at the issue of agriculture on the verge of it. In your area of competence, agricultural training facilities are also included. In my view, there are some problems which must also be addressed in the context of the budget debate. There are also two higher training centres in the field of agriculture and forestry, so-called "försterschule" in Bad Vöslau and in Bruck an der Mur, in addition to the medium-sized training facilities. The situation in these two schools is such that there is, as teachers and those who are familiar with this matter, a need for trained sisters to this extent for two schools. Teachers – yesterday we held a debate on the involvement of teachers – were very committed and have developed a plan to redesign a school in such a way that it can create appropriate needs and that those who complete their training there also get jobs. The situation was such that in the summer the decision was made to close the school in Bad Vöslau. At first it was also said that no students were admitted, although the entrance exams had already been completed – in the middle of summer, three weeks before school. It was finally that at least that could be turned off with the edition – and I actually feel that to a certain extent – that those students who start teaching in Bad Vöslau this year are allowed to complete the Matura class in Bruck at the Mur. Anyone who knows each other geographically will know that the distance between Bad Vöslau and Bruck at the Mur is more than 100 kilometers. This cannot be acceptable from the school aspect – in no form! Back to the alternative. It is now true, however, that your ministry has been re-established by the Federal Ministry's law, it is not just the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, but the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management. The teachers at the school in Bad Vöslau, together with the students and parents, have developed a concept to transform this school into a higher educational institution for water management and environmental management. I mean, just from the title of your place of business, that would have to fit in blindly. I am aware that there are legal bases for schools to operate. It is true that both teachers and we education politicians say that it does not matter whether this school is Their ministry or the Ministry of Education is concerned with what is being taught there. I have already been very surprised that, when I asked Mrs. Gehrer in the Committee on Budgets, she gave me a reply that she had only received documents from the private sector two days before and had not been informed about the problems at all. So there is a school that was built not so long ago, namely in the 1980s, with construction costs of over 300 million schilling at the time, but we and the teachers – we have asked – are not at all aware of what you are planning with this school. You've got the operation. They say that in four years, the class will be discontinued there. There is a building there, quite interesting for this because it is a boarding school where people from all over Austria can come for special trainings. This possibility is not everywhere. Appropriate accommodation, appropriate school structures, all of that would be given. And now I'm wondering, What's going on? I guess it can't be that the idea of saving goes so far now that everyone only sees his ministry. They save 30 million schilling, but there is a school of several hundred million schilling that could be absolutely necessary. Mr Amon told us yesterday how much the construction of a new class would cost, but there is a whole building that could be used. And it is not possible for you and Minister Gehrer to make the decision to lock this school before you make the decision to lock it up! – I think that is unacceptable, and I would ask you to tell us what you are doing with it. From my point of view, it can't be that this school is going to be closed. The school is de facto not really usable, except with huge investments. You can't make a hotel from a boarding school; that's not possible if you look at the rooms. Everything else – we also asked – is also difficult to imagine, from the cost structure this would hardly be possible. I would like you to explain what should happen to this, as soon as possible, because the students – as well as the teachers – are faced with a difficult situation when the school is left out. I'm making another bow for organic farming. There is also an approach to this, a school canteen. This would be a way of considering where biological thoughts can also be promoted in these trainings. In these training centres, you should draw a very large mark from your ministry and try to do so precisely where there is the possibility of promoting organic farming. There should be a greater use of organic products and a greater focus on them in training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5562	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5584	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on Mrs Moser's comments. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The forest-wild problem cannot be solved as widely as you did. I give Mr Pistottig the right to say that human overuse of nature pushes away the free living wild into rooms where there is damage. But a statement from you, Mrs. Dr. Moser, I must definitely correct. You said there were no firing plans. To this end, I should like to say the following: Fire plans for all shelled game species are contained in every Austrian land hunting law, and the Upper Austrian Land Hunt Regulation also provides for penalties if they are not complied with. In this context, however, I am very concerned about the care and survival of our forests. In my district about 90 percent of the protected forests of Upper Austria are found. I am increasingly concerned that forestry professionals – especially forestry professionals who are supposed to care for this forest – are missing. Of course, one cannot manage a protected forest cost-effectively. I do not want to talk about management at all, because, ladies and gentlemen, please be careful, Mr Pirklhuber! – you can keep protected forest in order only by single-tribal withdrawal and by single planting. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: That's why sales to the Federal Forests are so problematic!]] This is cost-intensive, and you need trained forces to do that. However, if you are saving people, especially the Federal Forests – and especially the Forestry Professionals – you can still work out and create so many protective programs, you won't get to the goal! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Explain this to the Minister! This is the "new" government!]] Now a few words about the recent climate change conference in The Hague. For the organizers, such a large global conference is certainly a problem, and I must say that the organization in The Hague was really anything but satisfactory. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for your initiative, because you have succeeded in defining the European Union's position on nuclear projects in the so-called flexible measures. The focus of Austrian environmental policy and therefore climate protection policy is sustainability, and this determines our actions. Of course, our environmental programmes must be coordinated with the relevant local authorities and stakeholders. Hiezu as well as for implementation a clear organisational structure and accompanying monitoring will be created. Sustainable climate protection means the development of modern, innovative technology, but also an environmentally conscious change in people's behaviour. At this point I would also like to make a comment on Mrs Glavischnig's address. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Government – and in particular Federal Minister Molterer – will by no means remain behind the commitment of our people to environmental protection. On the contrary! Rather, a process of constructive co-operation is necessary. Only in this way can we further develop environmental awareness and climate protection for the benefit of our citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] These aspects are particularly addressed in the preparation of the national climate strategy to achieve the Kyoto objective, as there are economics and ecology. The products of the domestic environmental industry are highly appreciated not only domestically but also abroad. With bilateral agreements to reduce air pollutants with our Central and Eastern European neighbours, we can not only promote climate protection in these countries but also our economy. Full employment and no new debt are the main prizes of the new government policy. A significant proportion of this is achieved by the urban water economy. An employment effect of more than 18 500 employees is not to be rejected. Two main objectives of the urban water industry are further pursued consistently, namely: the orderly disposal of industrial and municipal waste water and the adequate care of the population with hygienically sound drinking water. In this context, for the time being, I express my concern as mayor of a tourism community. The differences in the cost intensity between the agglomerations and the rural communities have now been weakened by the introduction of a graduated funding intensity. I refer to this as the first small step in the right direction, because investment in water supply in municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants per capita is more than four times the value in the municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. The cost of waste water disposal can be three to tenfold in rural communities. A rapid change in the funding directives and flexible coordination on the individual case is necessary in order to finally meet the various requirements. Finally, I note: Austrian environmental policy is a policy of sustainability and future thinking. We have the obligation to hand over to the coming generations an intact and thus good living and environment. There are also positive effects on the economy and employment situation. I therefore welcome this budget chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5650	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5671	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take a look at the issue of water management funds in the first place at the impact of federal funding in the area of urban water management. If Mr Fallent spoke before me on this issue of "new governance", we have once again a proof that "rerule" means endangering a proven system. If one summarizes the main results of the evaluation report from 1996 to 1998 on the impact and costs of environmental promotion of the federal government, it appears that the number of positive applications has increased, and the total funding by 7 percent. This created the conditions for fulfilling the EU Waste Water Directive. The report, which is not limited to environmental aspects, also notes that funding of 5 billion shilling per year for water supply and wastewater disposal directly ensures 15,000 jobs. Taking into account the total investment amount of 14.5 billion schilling per year, 42 000 jobs depend on the supported settlement water economy. Although there is a very high investment requirement in the water sector, there will only be a special tranche in 2000. The increased eligible value will be reduced from 3.9 billion schilling in this year to 3.5 billion schilling in 2001, and it will continue to fall to 3 billion schilling in the years up to 2004. In 1999, there were still promises that 4.9 billion schilling would be available. With this reduction, the volume of investment in civil engineering is drastically reduced. Municipalities, wastewater associations and, of course, the construction industry must therefore be set aside for a meagre period of settlement water construction. As a result of these cuts, the industrial economy is expected to lose billions of jobs and lose some 4,000 jobs. In addition to this economic problem and in addition to labour market problems, this policy of the Federal Government also worsens the environmental situation at the same time. The financial savings prevent compliance with European standards, prevent compliance with the EU municipal waste water directive. The objective defined by the European Union to achieve a 92% connection of households to the public water and wastewater network over the next ten years is no longer to be established under the conditions laid down by the blue-black government. In order to ensure the quality of drinking water and the purity of Austrian waters, 95 billion schilling has been invested over the last seven years. If the high standards of European and Austrian water law are to continue to be met, an investment requirement of 162 billion schilling by 2012 is necessary, as is estimated by local credit experts. Of these 130 billion schilling is needed for wastewater measures. The evaluation report even shows a need for 175 billion schilling. It is only to be expected that the measures proposed by the experts, such as improved planning, the absence of unnecessary costs of high technology, the increased use of so-called PPPs, better technical-scientific control of project handling, cost-saving operating management systems or cheap financing, will have cost-effective effects. In this field, it will continue to be indispensable and indispensable for the State to take money into its hands and control it. Even if this is not understandable to the advocates of "less state, more private", the state must invest in areas of urban water management. One will hardly find a private person who jumps into a break there, except for the small people who are bleeding small households financially on this question too, something that is never completely excluded from this government. This policy of unthinked shortcoming and strike, only to achieve budgetary short-term and questionable objectives, is environmentally irresponsible! In the long term, however, this delay in necessarily necessary investments is economically absurd, as the cost of renovation will gradually increase. In order to obtain the volume of funding in the long term, it would be necessary to achieve a higher disbursement from the financial compensatory resources. Mr Umweltminister! They are not credible if, while you demand strict compliance with the Union's environmental regulations from the candidate countries, you do the opposite in your own country. Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot support a budget based on poorer environmental quality and lower quality of life for our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5728	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5750	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Allow me to comment on Mrs Glavischnig's comments; unfortunately, she has just left the hall. [[Abg. Achatz: No, she's here!]] She's here. Very good! – Mrs. Glawischnig, I have a problem with that you are "putting" on the old model and throwing the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Chancellor, and talking about a "scandal deal", of a scandalous deal with the Czechs, a lazy deal as you called it, in relation to Temelin in connection with the conclusion of the energy chapter. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: lazy compromise!]] If you already make such claims, then get to this speaker's desk and tell us where you have this information, then let us know your source of information! [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Read Czech newspapers!]] But don't go after your old knitting pattern, namely to make allegations that you can't prove, so throw in order to believe afterwards – that's how In any case, come to a "win-win" situation. But then, if it wasn't so, and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic didn't make the "wrong deal" you accuse him of saying: That is why he did not do so because we Greens have revealed it and voted against it!, I think it is a particularly cheap procedure. It really can't be that cheap! The Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor referred a very clear position to Temelin and to the conclusion of the Energy Chapter and explained it as well. Federal Minister! I allow myself to turn to climate change, especially the Kyoto target. The year-on-year emissions are certainly not intended to fall into euphoria. We know that we had an increase between 1994 and 1997, then a steady course, and now we have an increase again. But it is, as I think, positive that, regardless of the fact that, with the exception of the agreement on flexible mechanisms, we have already heard, except nuclear energy, no agreement at the climate summit in The Hague could be achieved, however, the climate action in Austria, regardless of this outcome, which means in figures: 53.2 billion schilling for the next ten years. That means negotiating federal and state governments to make Article 15a agreements and to make a kind of adaptation of housing development – so to speak, a joint action between the federal government and countries. In the European Union, however, I find a dangerous development – my colleague Graf has already mentioned it –: Loyola de Palacio, Commissioner responsible for the energy sector, has increased to see that it is the nuclear power plants that have the special attractiveness to produce low emissions of greenhouse gases. It also said that some 70 nuclear reactors would be needed in addition to achieving the Kyoto target or reducing CO2 emissions to 1990 levels. From an Austrian point of view, this is certainly not a perspective! Federal Minister! I would ask you to move forward with European security standards within the European Union. We know that in the course of an amendment to the Euratom Treaty, which deals with the promotion of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, it would be appropriate to work towards the establishment of safety standards and to become part of the Euratom Treaty. I see it as the task of the Austrian Federal Government, within the EU, which, as is well known, is very much for regulations, for standard determinations to demand these standards concerning the safety of nuclear power plants. And I am trying to bring these uniform standards to the attention of the post-Nizza agendas in line with the state of the art. In particular, in the light of the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union, however, consideration should also be given to the combination of Russian reactors with Western safety standards. It can only be so that a common, combined and comprehensive safety standard should be defined. This is my request to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5823	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's friend is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5844	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural budget is, of course, an important part of our overall budget, which is being decided today because it also guarantees the payment of benefits for our farmers. It is particularly important to me that the Austrian environmental programme is financed with a total volume of 8 billion schilling. It is a very demanding programme for our farmers because it means a brake in the management – less fertilizers, less plant protection and less animal husbandry – and especially in these areas high conditions are to be fulfilled. Austria has negotiated well in the EU. Half of this volume comes from Brussels. Think about it. In Bavaria, a total of only 3 billion schillings are provided for such an environmental programme for farmers, because no more farmers are willing to meet the required conditions. On the other hand, this also shows how open our farmers are to the protection of our environment and how much they feel committed to agriculture close to nature. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] 85 percent of our farmers participate in this environmental programme! A severe blow for our farmers, however, is the newly inflamed debate on BSE, which has now occurred in Germany for the first time. Although in Austria for more than ten years the feeding of animal meal on cattle has been prohibited and no single case of BSE is known in our country, this makes our consumers very uncertain. But it also shows that Austria has taken a huge pioneering role. This discussion, however, means that our farmers suffer enormous damage and many are at risk in their existence. I thank Federal Minister Molterer for his rapid entry into Brussels to restore the confidence of our consumers in our meat. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The farmers alone can't be paid for this token. Federal Minister Molterer can't do this from the agricultural budget, too, because the Minister of Finance has to, and of course, the EU has to come here. We must not leave our farmers alone with their enormous damage caused by a problem in other countries. I would also like to say a word to the conventionally operating companies, because there is always criticism, especially by the Greens, of the so-called normal economy. You can't put this in your head! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: But there are great differences, Mr President!]] You also have to consider: In Austria there are 10 percent organic farms, the Bavaria are proud that they now have 3 percent organic farms. In this respect too, Austria is taking a huge pioneering role! And if the People's Party and the Farmers' Federation with Minister Molterer had not always been active in the future, we would not have to mention this success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is mentioned by your side again and again about mass animal husbandry. Do you know how many animals per hectare are kept per unit with us? - It's two! In other European countries, this is a lot more. In this respect too, ladies and gentlemen, Austria has a pioneering role to play. I could list many other things from this budget that are positive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] In particular, energy generation from biomass is mentioned, because I am pleased that the funding has not been reduced, but has been increased. I also believe that renewable energy sources will be a pillar for the future, because heating with wood is already, especially in the current crude oil crisis, in the form of chopping around a substantial cheaper and cheaper than other energy sources. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: By far the cheapest!]] Since the raw costs for hacks are 35 sizes per kilowatt hour, but in the case of heating oil at about 75 sizes, this means that the former is already around half cheaper. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I thank you because, with this budget, Federal Minister Molterer has achieved three goals for our farmers: first, their financial security, second, the trust in our farmers and third, the trust of our farmers in this federal government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5921	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5942	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let me come back briefly on yesterday's day and on the sermons by the speakers of the government parties who thought of the demonstrators. With "Chaoten", with "red-green mob", they were equated with "Randalizers". [[Abg. Steibl: (an enlarged illustration from the "Small Newspaper") And what is that?]] I can't remember that these terms were used when the farmers came up at the ring, for example, that there was talk of "black-blue mob" or "chaots". Ladies and gentlemen! These were workers, students, teachers and teachers, Austrian citizens who did not deserve to be ridiculed and ridiculed by the representatives of the people in this way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To the agricultural budget in detail. A statement by Mr Prinz during yesterday's debate on the social budget has made me give up. When he talks about BSE in cattle and then has dizzy towards "Well, we have to get a promotion for the farmers again" – and thus he was again obviously at the social budget – he has made a remark, which has duly stated: The cost of combating BSE should be borne by those who benefit from it, namely consumers. Well, now it's clear to us: If consumers want them to be able to buy decent, clean foods they do not suffer, they should pay for these necessary measures themselves! And there is also a proposal on this, namely: The coverage of these costs should be taken over by the disaster fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Unfortunately, I have too little time now, my colleague. – What is the disaster fund? – That’s the consumer’s money, that’s tax resources. There is also another example of the consumer's money. We only need to look at the agricultural budget: There are about 25.8 billion schilling; 20 billion of these are planned for agricultural support. And that's where an expert from Wifo, Mr Schneider, says: If you count roughly on this, then you can say that all the agricultural income actually comes from these subsidies, namely from public funds. These are consumer funds, whether they come from the EU or from Austria, they are public means of taxation. It has been discussed a few times today: The situation is difficult, unsatisfying and influenced by many factors. One factor, however, is certainly agricultural-industrial overproduction. And instead of countering it, Mr. Federal Minister, and setting a clear sign for the "Fine-cost shop Austria" which you have repeatedly prophesied, with the present budget, you cut the funds for the organic farmers and with this rigid, old support system you support the large producers in the agricultural-industrial sector. But it cannot be that these measures are not being put into effect! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you say the organic farmers are also promoted from other pots, then tell the organic farmers finally where these pots are from which they are still being promoted! When I talk to organic farmers, they lament that they have no support, especially no support in the marketing sector. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] An example of how Mr Prinz's attitude and obviously the ÖVP farmers' representatives become very clear is the example of groundwater, which is extremely nitrate and pesticides-loaded in many areas. Once again, I call my famous example, the first Austrian rehabilitation area Marchland-West, a substitute for many areas of renovation that you no longer order, because you do not know how to pay for the renovation. There it is already so far that consumers who have to buy the water have to keep this water clean themselves, which for them is a huge cost for filtering, with enormous costs for deep drilling et cetera. That's where we're already. If you want clean water, if you want a proper food, pay for it yourself! I can confirm and prove to you, Mr Federal Minister – the data from September 2000 – these stories of voluntaryness and the understanding of farmers that nothing is done in this area are black and white. The pesticide content does not go back, although the pesticides I know how long I have been banned! Who controls these pesticides? – They do not come from domestic wastewater, they do not come from anywhere, they come from the fertilisation. And the people who have already been punished with the "social security", which results from your decisions, also have to take care of these sluggish, "treffic" cost increases in the supply and disposal area. How long they'll be able to do this, we'll see. In any case, we will not agree to your budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6013	The next speaker was Mr Zellot. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6034	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaßner, we all know that this funding is, of course, paid out of the resources of all citizens, all Austrians, but there are also benefits for them. In Austria you can drink the water from the faucet. This is no longer the case in many Member States of the European Union. In Austria you can understand where products come from. In many Member States of the European Union it is not yet possible to do so. In Austria there is a land-related agriculture, that is, so many hectares, so many big cattle units. There is no such thing in other European Member States. [[Abg. Kiermaier: This is nothing new!]] That is to say, the Austrian farmers also provide services for the promotions. This is nothing new, but it has to be said clearly so that it does not look like farmers only receive subsidies and compensations and do not provide any services for them. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Farmers, of course, provide very large benefits for the environment – environment and agriculture are closely linked. I'm going to tell you something that might be new to you. In my home town you have built a heating plant, a biomass plant, because this city is a climate alliance city. We've been fighting for that. [[Abg. Schwemlein: How do you get the hacks?]] When the project was in the final phase, the SPÖ officials went from house to house and said: Buy gas because the farmers don't want anything but that the farmer can buy a nice mink coat again! We don't support that! – This is your SPÖ environmental policy! This is something new here, you probably didn't know that yet. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kermaier: Whoever believes will be blessed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the BSE crisis, Austria is not only "noise-free" as it is called in the advertising industry, Austria is also BSE-free, and this is, of course, a merit for the small-structured rural family farms of Austria. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This BSE crisis also leads to a clear rejection to the agricultural factories. Federal Minister! I think it would be more necessary than ever to bring harder messages to Brussels by saying: This six-month ban on animal feed is probably a weak indication for the future of a truly BSE-free European agriculture. And of course it is also important to continue in the biological field. Mr Pirklhuber! I appreciate you because you too are no one who knows the agricultural policy only from the newspaper, because you are also a practicing farmer. But I have to tell you one thing: This motion for a resolution, which you are submitting here, will once again build up additional bureaucracy. It is required to make a lasting requirement on which animal husbandry, which animal feed, which transport may be carried out. There is no longer any need for you to demand that, for example, a bovine should no longer be placed on the market if it has already spent some time in the slaughterhouse. You have criticized the agricultural bureaucracy and the agricultural market Austria, since I am of course on your side. But what you are asking for here with this request brings back an extension of the bureaucracy, which means that the agricultural market again needs more money and the farmer has to pay more marketing contributions again, and that is the bad thing about this request. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I believe that once again – and this should be said – has shown that precisely those countries that have shown their fingers to Austria and have said that if the sanctions get away, we will continue to observe this state. – I say: We Austrians will watch the other states!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6127	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6148	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think it is quite interesting to look at the importance of the coalition parties in the chapter on agriculture and the environment. [[Abg. Steibl: Unfortunately, there are not so many farmers in Parliament yet! That's why!]] Don't cry, count, Mrs. Colleague! Count! There are much more Members of the Social Democracy than of your two parties. This shows the value this range has for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're not that important!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: At the social budget yesterday very few of you were there!]] Minister! I have tried to listen quite carefully to your remarks. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I also noticed that the cryer had no hand free from the right – nor any of his colleagues – to praise your speech. It wasn't uninteresting. Minister! They talked about rural development. They have literally said: Strengthen rural agriculture in rural areas. - Off! Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! Federal Minister! Our approach to rural development continues significantly. It aims at the coordination of the labour force factor. And there we are again at the base amount. Minister! You've been running a zigzag course in the last few months. When you presented the coalition paper on 3.2.2000, you meant that the possibility of staggering can not be implemented in Austria. ==References== May, Federal Minister, on the occasion of the presentation of the 2000 budget, you said – literally quoted – that you would, of course, realize the amount of the base next year. ==References== November 2000, not half a year later, the same Minister of Agriculture explained to us: The base amount will be introduced in 2002. – Three completely contrary statements within a year, that is more than uncertainty. What actually happens? Ladies and gentlemen! The development of the rural area means for us the creation and maintenance of permanent and meaningful jobs, not only in agriculture but also in the rural area as a whole. We live in a mixed area in which industry, trade and tourism exist alongside each other. Agricultural policy must and should therefore be economic and social policy in rural areas. This economic and social policy is very often uncertain. Especially the sugar industry – an important factor in our area – has serious concerns about the future. It is a question of a planned organisation of the sugar market in 2003. This means that the plans for the farming areas must be completed no later than one and a half years, in 2002, at the latest. This means that, at the latest in a year and a half, it must be clear how the sugar beet continues in Austria. Not only do the jobs in the sugar factories depend on this – I remember Hohenau, the efforts of the German Federal Minister to save Hohenau at the time – but many small beet farmers also depend on it. However, the uncertainty continues. Farmers, for example, were recommended to look for safe incomes and, for example, to move to the basic wine. Many wine growers have done this and today face the fact that for the litre white wine they only get 3 to 3.50 S and for the litre red wine 7 to 8 S. Often the sprays cannot even be paid for. Federal Minister! They also distribute to farmers, namely from the bottom to the top, because there is no problem with the Great, such as Prince Liechtenstein, who - I remember - has received subsidies of 22.5 million schilling in 1998, or Count Hardegg with 13.9 million schilling subsidies. Minister! It was interesting to hear Mrs Achatz's statement. It was interesting that the first speaker has practically declared her common policy to be a failure after ten months. [[Abg. Achatz: The common EU agricultural policy!]] It was interesting to get clear signs from your coalition partner in this direction. And it was also interesting to hear, Federal Minister, that Mrs. Achatz spoke about a renationalisation of agriculture. Minister! You have handled this discreetly in your reply, you have not commented on it. What does the renationalisation of agriculture mean? Does that mean that we are leaving the money in Brussels in the future? Does renationalization mean we're paying back all the funding we've received so far? Mr Achatz, how do you imagine that? Is this the agricultural policy of the supposed large and leading party in this coalition?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6249	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6271	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of this House! The problem of BSE shows very placardly and massively what ways there can be in agriculture: those who are positive, and others who are to be described as misleading. As an error, I see the trend towards industrialized agriculture, when, for example, pigs are measured on outlying former high sea oil ships, these come to us as meat products, or build the constituencies, giant stables, not in the green meadow, but in port facilities, in order to feed the animals in large quantities in shortest ways, as well as feed feed that is to be called abnormal. It is absolute nonsense to feed on a vegetable eater of meat waste. In this context, Austria was the first to react with a feed ban at the earliest time, namely already in 1989. These deviant practices in some EU countries have led to more than 170 000 BSE cases in England alone – a dimension that assumes huge risks. It is also interesting to note the process of a member country of the EU, which wants to be a permanent guide to Austria: Despite the knowledge of the BSE situation in England, France has brought tens of thousands of tonnes of waste to France and fed it to French animals. The result is 175 BSE cases alone this year. The situation of Austria, on the other hand, is much more positive thanks to God, and I see this as a result of the cooperation of all Austrians, all politically responsible and not as the exclusive merit of our party. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, it must also be pointed out that Austrian agriculture is structured responsibly – both in dealing with the nature and conservation of these as well as in the sizes and associated environmental impacts. The most important thing, however, is the fact that we have already carried out the animal identification very consistently in the past – in relation to other countries, Mr Pirklhuber – and thus ensure that you know where every piece of cattle comes from, and that you also know where every piece of meat comes from. – In today’s time enormously significant! In future, we also need to draw out a lot more together in order to make our consumers understand that what they buy is a valuable Austrian product – whether beef or not. I would like to expressly point out at this point that it is – thank God! – there is not yet a single BSE case in Austria and we all need to work together to ensure that it remains in the future. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] The top priority is the quality of food, it is absolutely vital that the Austrian consumer can rely on Austrian food and know that it is a valuable contribution to its health and not a threat to it. In my opinion, the policy measures following notification of the negative change in the BSE sector were put in place in Austria competently and responsibly, on the one hand, by the veterinarian and competent Minister of Agriculture, and on the other hand by our usual sovereign Federal Minister Wilhelm Molterer. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We all have to ensure that we continue to maintain our fundamental livelihoods – healthy air, healthy water and healthy food – in the future. This is not a gift, it is a loan from our children, and we must pay maximum attention to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6337	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6358	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The contents of the entire range of laws that have been and will be passed in this room in these days can, in summary, be described as objectiveless and carefree collection of money from taxpayers. A good example of this is also the revision of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. Currently, the contribution is 400 S per tonne, and it becomes 1st. January 2001 increased to 600 S per tonne. They thus impose an unjustly high burden on citizens. Many landfill operators, in particular municipal companies, or the cities and municipalities themselves, are deprived of the economic basis for the continuation of their most recent technological landfills. This massive increase in the ALSAG contribution to the threefold value of the current rate will lead to huge revenue from the federal government on the back of the cities and municipalities responsible for collecting fees, which in turn will have to pass on these costs to the citizens. Hiezu also says that by scientifically non-comprehensible limits you unnecessarily cause high extra costs. This, Mr Minister, is not least the case for all projects to set up mechanical-biological installations. The innovation is also a further step towards the widespread introduction of waste combustion plants and simply paves the way for the economic and ecologically desirable addition to mechanical-biological systems. The environmental policy of this government is unsocial. Waste charges are constantly rising, while the FPÖ-ÖVP government does not give any opportunities for cost-reducing technologies such as mechanical-biological plants, mechanical-biological processes, and this, Mr. Minister, although this could reduce the waste disposal costs for the citizens by about 30 percent! A few more words on the planned revision of the packaging regulation. They want to reduce the collection quotas for various packagings from about 95 percent to just over 80 percent. You want to check this from 2004 onwards, so that no one can ask for the fulfilment of the quota anymore. In addition, you have planned a few more tricks: for example, the conversion of the calculation of the collection ratio from the filling volume to the packaging weight. By doing so, Mr. Minister – you are certainly aware of this yourself – you will of course open the plastic disposable packaging door and door. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for the Environment has once again kneeled before the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce and has sold the waste collection system, which has been set up for ten years, in favour of maximizing the profits of trade and industry. This is a step towards favoring wholesale markets in front of small businesses! The fact that in the Chamber of Commerce and Agriculture the big ones are sniffing the little ones is an old hat and is well known. But you are doing this to an almost insolent extent at the moment! Ladies and gentlemen! All eco-balance sheets are ad absurd. A glass multi-way bottle can be re-filled up to 60 times, and then the glass is re-used. The same applies to PET multi-way bottles. We therefore call for the introduction of charges on non-reusable plastic bottles and cans in order not to let the garbage mountains grow in the sky. The reproach of "voluntary economic efforts" provided for in the draft can only be described as a bad joke. Ladies and gentlemen! Not even the ÖVP-nearly and dominated by the ÖVP municipal government likes this completely missing design. The ÖVP community also calls for a complete revision. We agree with this request for the reasons set out above. Ladies and gentlemen! The announcement of the exclusively expenditure-side saving of this blue-black government is an empty phrase. The only ones who need to save after the adoption of this budget by the blue-black parliamentary group will be the Austrians to whom you draw the money out of your pocket. You will be presented the invoice for this arrogance! I am firmly convinced of this, ladies and gentlemen of the Blue-Black Unity Party!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6399	Mr Hornegger is speaking as the next speaker. Your watch will be set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6420	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The negative headlines fill our media, and the uncertainty of our consumers is great. Just one example: On the front page of the "profile" is the question: "BSE in Austria?" – This uncertainty, ladies and gentlemen, must end! The agricultural policy towards the agricultural industry in recent decades has certainly been the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the liberals: Right!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Was that the SPÖ or the ÖVP? That was not the Minister of Finance, but the Minister of Agriculture!]] This will lead to the ruin of many agricultural holdings in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We must put up with the political courage to strengthen the path towards organic farming. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: That's the way it is!]] Federal Minister! We should allow those farmers who have not yet been able to choose to take the step in organic farming at the last request in November to change now. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: I am here with you too, Mr Colleague, but that is only possible if we also support the institutions.]] - Yes, very well! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The deadline, Mr Minister, as decided in the EU Agriculture Council, cannot be a solution for the future, as only a permanent ban on animal meal feeding can ensure a longer-term change in organic farming. The six-month deadline cannot be the big announcement for us farmers to rely on vegetable protein production. The removal of payments for endangered animal breeds – I myself come from a federal country where the Pinzgau cattle breed is still highly represented – is another negative example. Mr Pirklhuber, you yourself, as has already been mentioned, are active in organic farming. I'd like to say: The wild growth of control organisations cannot also be within the meaning of organic farmers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: It's about free choice! There is an EU law on control!]] We already have the strictest conditions, the strictest controls, the highest farm prices and, unfortunately, the lowest producer prices. And we have not yet been able to convince consumers that quality is ahead of quantity and that the healthy cutle on the plate must also have its price. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Allow me a few more sentences on the subject of Federal Forests. As regards the sale of woodlands to farmers, I strongly advise the opposition to return to reality. Our Forestry Spokesman Pistotnig has led you to where that leads when you turn around everything that is basically enshrined in the Forestry Act, and to put everything in charge. For the government parties, it is important not to sell out core areas, but to have small-area peripheral zones – listen carefully, Mr. Schwemmlein; we have offered them in Pinzgau for a sufficient amount of land – for only these are a guarantee for the proper management of our forests. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In contrast to the opposition, I have confidence in you, Mr Minister, that with this agricultural budget and the positive changeovers to our farmers, you will secure the chance to survive in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6535	The next speaker was Mrs Perfuss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6557	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am absolutely of an opinion with Mrs Achatz and with my previous speaker Mr Hornegger that mass animal husbandry is definitely denatured. I am entirely of your opinion, but we are probably all of the same in this regard. You have condemned EU agricultural policy in your speech. [[Abg. Achatz: It has failed, the EU agricultural policy!]] – Yes, you are right, but Austria’s agricultural policy is partly missing, ladies and gentlemen. I've only seen you very "living" today. In the Committee you have only taken over a statistical role that you must have performed very well. I have experienced you speechlessly, and I am very surprised, ladies and gentlemen, when I think of earlier times. Perhaps the state-supporting role in which FPÖ is now has been transferred only to Mrs Achatz. The other officials are obviously very difficult to deal with this role. Let's just think about Salzburg! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where are the times, ladies and gentlemen, in which you have presented criticism and appeals with a flaming, enraged voice, with commitment and temperament? With much of your criticism at the time, ladies and gentlemen, you have been completely right, but now there has been some change. [[Abg. Achatz: What?]] You are now with your party coalition partner in the government. [[Abg. Ahatz: So what?]] Their party presidents are looking forward to the fact that the FPÖ is actually the reform engine. [[Abg. Achatz: That's it!]] – "Change" is the magic word, "change", Mrs. Deputies! Instead, the FPÖ is, like many other topics on the dive site, whether in social policy or in nature conservation, whether in animal welfare. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The problems in these areas have not changed! FPÖ has changed in government according to the motto: My name is Hase, I don't know anything. – Of course not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You always said we should change!]] [[Abg. Achatz: So what would you like now?]] – I have been busy with you for a long time now, ladies and gentlemen, now I have to turn to the Federal Minister. Federal Minister! You have presented a work report and, of course, in its long-term practice, you have praised yourself in the highest tones. You are politicians, so of course you are allowed to do so. But, Minister of the State, you cannot conceal the fact that there are many, many unresolved problems in agriculture. Many problems have already been addressed today, and one of the biggest problems is a clear direction towards organic farming. Today the issue of BSE has been discussed very often. BSE is a result of mass animal husbandry, which has often been stressed. In the budget, however, there is no direction decision by the government towards more animal welfare and organic farming, Mr. Federal Minister. How different it is, without scandals and without billions of damages, we already know! The organic farmers have been living this for years. Bioproducers may only use farm-owned and non-genotechnic feed and only in exceptional cases may they buy feed. It is precisely the abandonment of feed, the turning to organic farming – and this is particularly important to me – that also the agricultural structure and automatically brings more animal protection through animal welfare. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: This is also shown in the 1999 work report!]] We from SPÖ – but also you from FPÖ, I must say that – have been demanding a Federal Animal Protection Act for years, in which animal welfare regulations are laid down at a high level. The organic farmers are guaranteed with the animal-righteous index, the species-appropriate animal husbandry. We want to introduce this flexible system of animal husbandry for all farmers. We know the benefits: marketing, sustainable agriculture, healthier animals and, as my previous speaker pointed out, satisfied consumers. That's what we all want! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Trust is very important in this area. And who prevents it? – The ÖVP and its organisations, who are of course concerned about the sales of feed and medicine distribution. That's how it looks! Federal Minister! I ask you to: Go your own way!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6698	Mr Hornegger spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. . Mr Member, please start by playing the claim to be corrected and by contrasting it with the corrected case-law.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6722	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Hornegger, in his remarks, incorrectly claimed that the Austrian Federal Forest AG would hand down small areas to small farmers. – This claim is incorrect! I put it correctly, Mr Hornegger – and this is to be read in the Austrian media from August and September; this has not been contradicted so far: Statements by the Director-General Ramsauer, Statements by the Director-General Uher: The Federal Forests do not sell particles, do not sell small areas, they only sell large areas! The smallest scale of speech, Mr Hornegger – I would ask you to read in the editions of the Austrian newspapers from August and September – was 115 hectares. [[Abg. Hornegger: Leaving on newspaper reports!]] Show me the little farmer who buys this 115 acres!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6771	Mr Zweytick is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6792	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, allow me to express my concern about the BSE disaster which I share with those who are directly or indirectly affected by it. Indirectly affected are, in all cases, all cattle owners, cattle farmers and farmers, who, out of idealism, provide healthy food daily and not for reasons of speculation. The impact on such a disaster simply knows no limits. My compassion applies to all farmers in Europe, as in the future they will have greater problems and also great concerns as regards the safeguarding of their existence and also the question of how to deal with them. It also raises the question of what this means for smaller businesses and how to deal with it in the public. Such scandals are shamelessly used for press releases, and I would say – almost – as shameless as the opposition here does. A disaster is used to carry out nothing but some nesting pollution in our own country, which, of course, hurts the image of our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] This is a ministry that is more important: It's the Ministry of Life! I really expect the solidarity of a successful social partnership in the past, which has understood that common interests can also be carried abroad together. [[Intervoke by Mrs Parfuss and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] However, this also means showing solidarity with all the professional sectors in Austria and finding a solidaristic attitude towards a once-inhabited social partnership. It should not be like yesterday when you have caused unrest here in this country with unilateral actions. I would just like to draw attention to this: It would be very sad to see the future of this successful social partnership if it were prevented by such actions in the future. I don't give any of this a future. [[Call:This is incredible]] I will return to the agricultural budget we are discussing today. Despite today's need for general consolidation measures, whose reasons lie with the Federal Governments of the past, the Ministry of Agriculture has succeeded in ensuring the necessary and important resources for farmers as well as in the past for the coming year. But this assurance was only achieved through an internal effort which makes it necessary to put large structural measures internally, i.e. in the administration, which can make great savings. Like all other sectors in Austria, agriculture is of course not excluded from consolidation measures. Unfortunately, the planned reduction in the fuel price for farmers, see agricultural diesel, which would simply be necessary, or the support for the mining industry had to be postponed to 2001. However, it is gratifying to note that ensuring the payment of benefits for our farmers has also been successful for the future. These are, in particular, the OPUL 2000, mining promotion and the market regulation premium, which is carried by the EU alone. It is even planned to increase to 8.7 billion schilling in 2001. Minister Molterer has negotiated excellently in the context of the agenda so that an allocation to Austria for rural development is made. For this, he and his team are to be thanked. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The following has not yet been received: In the future, important budget resources for the avalanche cultivation and the Wildbach renovation will continue to be made available to ensure the protection of our population. Or to the wine industry: In particular, the new restructuring and conversion programme has succeeded in providing funds for this for the first time. This also ensures sustainable cultural landscapes and the existence of the farm workplace. [[Abg. Eder: I believe you, because you know you!]] A word on climate protection too. A stronger promotion of biomass heating is a command of the hour, especially in view of the rising oil price, which means the beginning of the end of cheap oil or, more clearly, the beginning of the end of the oil age. [[Abg. Eder: It's getting harder!]] As a result of the financial compensation, dedicated funds in the housing sector are always creating new opportunities for synergies. I am of the opinion that every publicly funded housing project should require biomass heating and, as well as it is, the use of solar energy in the future. In my community, this is already a matter of course. [[Abg. Eder: That's good! That's where we agree.]] [[Abg. Perfuss: You've already crossed the time!]] – I have crossed my speaking time, but I do not want to cross it any further, because time is precious. You have had long enough time, and you have the burden on the Austrian population today, and you have to carry along with it. But there are loads to pay off in the future. And I would also like to conclude by saying that you are in favour of your solidarity. Mr Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6916	The next speaker was Mr Schwemmlein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6937	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Especially ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! As you can see, I am not speaking to you as a farmer, but as a consumer – we are all here in the room. I would like to remind consumers – I believe that farmers too are consumers – of two statements. [[Abg. Achatz: But these are the farmers too!]] On the one hand, Mr Zweytick said in a way that I cannot understand: The SPÖ operates nesting pollution to the farmers. Secondly, Mr. Freund came out here and said in connection with BSE: So that farmers don't have to pay the bills. Now I'm asking the first question: What tick?, and for the second, ladies and gentlemen: Who pays all the follow-up costs of BSE? – Not the farmers, but the consumers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And now I'm asking you: Who caused it? Have consumers caused BSE? – But really not! Farmers have caused BSE! [[Abg. Zweytick: That's crazy!]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now I am telling you the following, and now we are talking about production in agriculture. [[Further calls.]] – You talk to me when you can talk. Let us talk about production in agriculture! It is a question of finding a food chain that can be understood by people. I give the following example: If Mr Schwarzenberger wants to have a five thousand-liter cow in his stable, it is enough to feed to this cow what is available in resources. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I do!]] I don't need any chemistry. I don't need anything. But at the moment when Mr Schwarzenberger – and I don't suppose he wants to do it – wants to have an 8,000-liter cow, that's not enough anymore. Then he has to go here and feed additives so that he has a turbocow. Only: With the Turbokuh, the disaster begins in agriculture and subsequently with the products offered to the Austrians! I say again: The consumer is by no means guilty. It's always the producer's fault. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But not the Austrian farmer!]] Once you become aware that there is a great difference between cause and effect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! I did not say that the Austrian farmer is responsible for BSE. That's clear. [[Abg. Ahatz: Oh yes!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Why? There was no BSE case in Austria. Or do you want to say suddenly that we would have... [[Abg. Zelot: "The peasants"! Where are they?]] There are farmers everywhere, please. There are farmers everywhere! Let us not forget the following: In Austria too, 330 000 tonnes of animal flour are stored. Mr Schwarzenberger has now rightly said: We export half of this animal meal, because we can't do anything with it anyway. That's where I'm asking the question: Where do we export this, ladies and gentlemen? – We export that to the eastern block, it is fed there, and we get our products back from these Eastern Bloc countries. That is, what we have exported into the eastern block in the form of animal flour, we are getting back in the form of finished products. [[Abg. Gatterer: Where is the East Block?]] And this is the disaster in this cycle that you are responsible for, ladies and gentlemen. Another essential point I would like to address on this matter. If we are talking about agriculture here, then you may be talking, legitimately, about what you want to do with funding. But at last please also talk about the rights of consumers. The consumer has the right to an honest, clean product. Now I say that if the farmer produces such an honest and clean product, he should also get the price for it, and if the market does not allow the price, then a promotion should serve to ensure that such a product can come into trade. But what are you doing? – You do exactly the opposite! They are promoting large farmers with their industrial production, and the small farmers are increasingly being put before the issue of existence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Hornegger said that the small farmers will be those who can buy up the forests of the Federal Forests. Mr. Hornegger! Read what the farmers of the Inner Mountain region say, and for the second, talk to these farmers! It's a fact: If even communities of farmers can buy up larger areas from the Federal Forests, then only on condition that they are indebted, because out of the cash register they cannot pay for it. Therefore, the ruinous thing about the policy you are doing is that you are willing to sell property and thus drive farmers into new debts! That's the meanest policy there is at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7090	Mr Zweytick spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member, start by replaying the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7114	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schwamlein has claimed that the farmers are responsible for BSE. I'm actually putting it right: The responsibility for BSE is a carefree animal body utilization and animal meal production in England, which has caused infections and damage throughout Europe. [[Abg. Edler: Are these not farmers?]] In fact: There is no BSE case in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7163	The next speaker was Mr Weinmeier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7184	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would very much like to protest on the part of our group that my previous speaker here has made the farmers responsible for the BSE scandal. It has really been only the agricultural industry, and you should finally understand that, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] However, I would like to deal with waste management, in particular with waste disposal. In order to be able to raise the huge resources needed for the renovation of the old loads, the old load recovery contribution has been created. For the allocation of these funds, the Old Load Rehabilitation Advisory Board, the Old Load Rehabilitation Commission, and the ÖKK are responsible for the settlement. ==References== The last meeting was held in November at the ÖKK. It is gratifying that sufficient funds are currently available for the old load recovery in this old load recovery stop. Some 1.6 billion schillings were or were available. I say'stands' because a comprehensive programme of support has been decided at this meeting. Overall, support measures and projects amounted to 1.9 billion schilling and a funding volume of 986 million. This, ladies and gentlemen, is very important in the interests of groundwater protection. I just mention some important projects that were decided there: Wagon repair workshop German Wagram: Investment 91 million Schilling, 53 million funding; Deponie Wr. Neudorf: investment 456 million schilling, contribution 134 million; Gasket Simmering: Investments 511 million, support contribution 260 million. – These promotion measures are, as has been said, very important for our groundwater protection. It is also encouraging that research projects will also be promoted from the funds of the old-age recovery contribution. At this meeting, two projects of the research centre Seibersdorf, which deal with the improvement in the field of old-age rehabilitation, were decided on. There is, however, a problem in the field of old-age rehabilitation, that the applications are declining, not because there are no old-age charges in our country, but because there are fewer and fewer promoters who are willing to raise their own resources. One will have to deal with this problem for a short or long time. It is also a lot in the EU's field of old-age rehabilitation. A new framework for aid has been presented requiring strict implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle. According to this EU draft, it will no longer be possible to provide state support if the causer is clearly established. If this directive is adopted in this way, it will require a complete reorganisation of our funding philosophy and our promotion directives. Now on another issue, namely Temelin, because here the so-called Greens are always acting as if the current government were to blame for not being able to do more against the start-up of the power plant. I quote a statement by Commissioner Verheugen, whom he has made recently, which reads as follows: "He hopes that the bilateral dispute" – I'll say: it's interesting that he calls it a bilateral dispute – "between Vienna and Prague will soon be resolved. Verheugen explained that the Austrian government was under Chancellor's climate at that time" – you hear! "... by the end of 1997, Temelin would have had the opportunity to negotiate on the list of "negotiables" because of not placing retrofitable nuclear power stations, as happened with Ignalina, Kosloduj and Bohunice". However, this period had failed to apply to Austria." [[Call to the liberals: Who was that?]] – That was Mr. Federal Chancellor's climate. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's why he emigrated to South America!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, especially the SPÖ! Mrs Umwelt Spokesman! Don't always blame this government. It is clearly stated here that the blame for being in such a bad position with the government climate is the Temelin situation at the moment. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Do you mean "the only government climate"?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since it also has to do with the environment, I would like to say something about the mobbing posters that the SPÖ is now setting up everywhere to ruin our nature. It is intended to exert pressure on freely elected members. Mr Heinzl! They're telling me in your district office that you're responsible for this. – He's not here, he's obviously already been putting up again. Mr Heinzl! Sit down here or at other discussions with us in the matter, but finally stop putting up these primitive posters and thus destroying nature! Your own comrades are no longer going along with this action, because there is already a broadcast by the chairman of the SPÖ in Brand-Laaben, who clearly distances himself from it and calls on you to remove this poster stand immediately. [[Abg. Eder: The truth is already on it!]] Mr Heinzl – I would ask him to do so – should also speedily clear these posters in my community. There is, in fact, the agreement that no election posters will be drawn up. If that doesn't happen immediately, we'll remove these posters. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: This is possession disorder!]] When discussing matters in the district, I never see him, Mr Heinzl. Before that, he always presses himself. Only when he's posterting in the night, he's obviously strong. We have never needed such undemocratic posters and such undemocratic methods in our time of opposition. It would not have been possible either, because in order to be able to bring all the loads you have decided on onto a poster floor, we should have put up large space posters.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7306	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7327	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, you have been spoiled by the Freedom Party today – and also recently. I still have the speeches of my colleague, Achatz, that you have already affected. Now there has been a change, but the biting reflex is still there with the liberals. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: It's not bad at all!]] So he's against the SPÖ now, but that doesn't work completely. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] You have to be careful, because there are still resentments from the past. For example, I am reading – I condemn this, of course, because I very much appreciate Mrs. Achatz – a statement from a leading farmer's federal official: that her statements, namely Mrs. Achatz's, bore witness to "total political ignorance" and only contributed to the insecurity of the farmers. – That said a certain black goat; it should be something in Lower Austria at the Farmers' Federation. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] We have also heard the comments made by Mr Ledermüller regarding Mrs Riess-Passer today. The biting reflex is now directed against us. We note that the areas of agriculture and the environment have been in charge since 1986 of edellinger, climate and one. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] We take note of this. Now, of course, it would be alluring for me: I would also have some environmental issues. But in the short of time perhaps only one more, Mr. Minister, because it fits in your place. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Doppelmüller was responsible!]] There's the "fisher dump", and at the "fisher dump" we'll probably need a lot of money. Now I hear that the disaster fund for BSE payments should be used. I would like to know – perhaps you could still answer this today – where you can accommodate the 2 to 3 billion schilling for the "fisher dump" or where you have provided for it. Or will we have to wait a very long time? Now to the budget itself: The fact is – and no one can wipe away – that there is only more money in the area of tanks, aircraft and agriculture. You can do this to the farmer: 2.4 billion Schilling more, 700 million Schilling this year. Federal Minister Molterer! But if we look at the agricultural structure, the size of the farms – we come from the same federal country, we do not have these large farmers, as they do in Lower Austria in part – then we have to realize that this agricultural policy in fact still has disadvantages for the smaller farms. That's going on. When the base amount is exposed to the miners and only in one year comes to wear – then Colle Schwarzenberger can shake his head like this: it's just like that – and when the profit rates for the full-feeling are increased by 10 percent, that's what happens to the little ones. Minister! I asked you in the committee what it looks like in the case of court transfers with the appropriate taxes. You calmed down and said: Up to a single value of 5 million schilling is nevertheless the old regulation, so it is not tripled. But it's obviously not that way. A newspaper by the Upper Austrian Farmers' Federation, i.e. one of the organs that I am not close to, I take the following: There they calculated that the residential buildings would be treated differently. As far as the residential buildings are concerned, I have an example here: a farm, a unit value of 200 000 S, residential buildings 300 000 S, transfer price 640 000 S, two people aged 62 have residence rights, outings, free costs. The transferor would have had to pay 11 184 S for the residential building so far. Soon it will be 85,095 S – but only if the progenitor is the son or the daughter, so it is a relative. But there are a lot of people who don't have a child who takes over there, and then it goes up even further. These are the examples, Mr Minister, you really have to look at them. I'm sure that's true for the little ones. Minister! It is similar in the field of social security. We know that if, for example, you have a farm with a uniform value of 100 000 s and another with a uniform value of 900 000 s, then the one with 900 000 s pays only 3.5 times the other's contributions. - There's a lot wrong with that. But I think, Minister, that you are aware of that. It is, however, so difficult, that is why I have put in place my Farmers' League-Crawatts today. [[The speaker points to his red and black tie, on which a sheep is pictured.]] In fact, it refers to Jacob Auer, I said, but she would also refer to you: a white sheep hopefully among many, many black farmers' federal sheep. Minister! I don't have time now; we should talk about the biodiesel again, after I have read an interview with you somewhere in which you have gladly said that you are also interested in an eco-balance sheet in rape cultivation. I have long called for such an eco-report. I hope we'll get it soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7422	The next speaker is Mr Loos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7443	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! If one hears the speeches of SPÖ speakers and those of the Greens, it could be believed that Austria is in the middle of a disaster. I'm surprised some haven't emigrated yet. Mr Brix, when we were last in Bosnia, some could have stayed there, as they speak. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brix: Minus 12 percent!]] I'll tell you: In Austria, thank God, the opposite is the case! [[Abg. Brix: Minus 12 percent in Burgenland!]] Because Mr Doppelmüller said that it was not Edlinger, not One and so on, who was responsible for environmental and agricultural policy: Well, thank God! If it were these gentlemen you mentioned, we might also have these disasters, which you think are taking place now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Who introduced the mining grant?]] However, I would like to refer to a particularly positive example of environmental policy, and I therefore do not want to be interrupted by you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. It's about the national parks in Austria. That is why some of the previous SPÖ government has special merits, which I would like to stress. But it was introduced with the National Parks under an EIA Agriculture Minister. I am particularly pleased today that many young people in Burgenland are here, but also middle and older people from the districts of Neusiedl and Oberpulendorf. They know the Neusiedlersee-Seewinkel National Park very well, and that is why I am particularly pleased that these people are here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria, we have not only this one national park, which I have named and on whose board I may be, but there are wonderful differences in the national parks. We have high-mountain national parks – Hohe Tauern, Kalkalpen – we have beautiful river landscapes – Donauen-Thayatal – and we have just this steppe and Puszta National Park Neusiedlersee-Seewinkel. Because these are hearty projects, nature conservation projects, our Federal Minister – I must mention this as praiseworthy – has provided for this in the present budget accordingly. There is no reduction in the approaches. I would particularly like to stress this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not need to stress that these national parks are also of particular regional economic impact. We have made great progress in tourism precisely because of the national parks. From Burgenland I know exactly that our numbers of nights and also the figures of revenue in the host industry have increased enormously since we have this national park, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This affects tourism, and this affects the entire business activity in the towns. What might be made even more often in the future – and we are now back on the link between agriculture and the environment – is that we implement and apply these National Park products accordingly. To this end, the European Union also offers us various possibilities. There is the LEADER-plus programme, which can be used, for example, in relation to National Park products, or also to train the National Parks' supervisors accordingly, so that even national parks have still had a positive effect until now. Unfortunately, the speaking time of God is very short; I could talk about these national parks for hours because I like it very much. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Please!]] But I have heard today that the Greens and the SPÖ unfortunately do not want to agree to God. As a trade union member, I wish you the following, ladies and gentlemen: I wish that tomorrow in Apetlon or in St. Andrea – there lives a SPÖ member – posters are placed, red-green, on which says: "I didn't vote for the National Park. I didn't vote for the old-age renovation. I've been at risk of jobs." Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that I too, as a member of the union union, can wish for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can also set up blue-black posters on which says: " Johann Loos – I voted in favour of the National Park, I voted in favour of the old load renovation", so that you don't have to change the color so often. [[Bravo Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are happy to agree with this budget section.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7571	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7593	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, I am delighted that my previous speaker is so clearly speaking for national parks. I have not only agreed, but I have created two in Lower Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Lower Austria is the only federal country with two national parks, and I am very proud of that. But first of all I would like to make a comment on the question of BSE because I believe that the question of BSE must be something like a test stone and also a turning point in the agricultural policy in Europe. It is certainly true that the question arises of what is behind it – not the disease, but why such a thing can actually arise: through an agricultural industry, through an industry that is actually based solely on profit maximisation and has taken a path that represents a dead end. It was reported yesterday in a large newspaper; this newspaper has put the problem to the fore: "The madness of cattle is actually a human insanity." It starts where people start industrial production, which simply cannot and cannot be artificially sound, and ultimately the financing of the resulting damage in Europe will cost up to billions. Federal Minister! I believe that we were on a good path in Austria; we should also remain pioneers in Europe. It is simply important that we build confidence, but also in the overall global policy, namely within the WTO, that we represent European aspects, which ultimately go beyond the fact that consumers have safety and that their right to healthy food is guaranteed. However, there must be a rethinking process not only in agriculture, but ultimately also in the consumer sector. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, that's really necessary. In fact, if you ignore certain contexts – for example, that you used to reach a certain maturity of the meat, about half or a three-quarters of a year in chickens, and now you have to reach the same in eight to twelve weeks – then you have to take a path that leads to such a dead end. This should therefore be seen as a turning point in the agricultural policy – in the face of all the problems and in the face of all the costs that will arise in this context: a turning point towards a smaller structured agriculture, away from existing EU industrial agriculture. In this newspaper article, it was also reported that the language betrays it. – The language actually reveals it. Although one speaks of "animal beings" – one must also include respect for creation – it uses quite different terms, such as "contaminated material" – as if these were not living beings – or the cadavers and bodies that are piled up there will only be measured in billions, without seeing the tragedy behind it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! One must therefore have another access. This situation forces us into a discussion that should have been held for a long time, namely an ethical discussion, which is to be seen not from the point of view of lobby interests, but under a real, comprehensive ethics! I would like to point this out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! Another aspect of my heart is the following: As one who has long been active in the water industry and who represents the interests of Lower Austria and Austria in the municipal credit, I would like to say: I do not understand that you are taking back the approach of promotions in relation to the urban water industry. This is incomprehensible, therefore, because it is important for both the environment and the regional economy. Finally, a reduction in investment by around 40 percent by 2003 means not only a deterioration in environmental conditions, but also a reduction in regional jobs in the construction industry. – I mean, both should be avoided. If you continue on this path, this would ultimately mean that there is an additional burden on the networker or on the municipalities and countries. And this is an unthinkable way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: It's getting less and less!]] I would like to ask you, Minister of State, to return in this way in the interests of the environment and the payers, namely those concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7672	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7693	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Minister! If you have listened attentively to the statements of my previous speakers today from the SPÖ – that was difficult enough – then you feel very quickly reminded of those words by Oliver Goldsmith. [[Abg. Kiermaier: He has a self-confidence! It's not weak!]] He said: "If small fish could speak, they would speak like whales." [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Just like that, ladies and gentlemen from the left quarter – because there is only a quarter left – act! [[Abg. Kiermaier: This is last-class!]] You come out here and talk about things that you have no idea at all and for which you have made zero in the last 30 years. You will discover your great heart for the small farmers, my dear ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, but you are simply not entitled to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Who's the mining grant from?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] They even go one step further – and soar hate. They would hate in the hearts of the people. I don't want to come back to your foreign policy machinations, but in the internal policy area, you're sending people to the street. They go even further: They are able to really link a whole professional group, a profession, namely the farmers, with voting slogans such as "The farmers and the large industrialists are the winners of this government". [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you something. I am proud that we now have a government which, through its work, clearly admits to the rural population! This is really a milestone and progress in politics. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I quite agree that everything is certainly not solved. Of course, we will have to consider that there must be "weapon equality" in the means of production. It will certainly be important for the agricultural diesel to be introduced. You also need to talk about the "Austria seal", no question at all. But if you take on other things that this government was actually able to do in the fastest time, such as the carnage money for all, such as the introduction of child money, then I have to say: These are also really important areas for farmers, especially for farmers! If you – and I have to say this to the Greens – would not always represent just the left-hand media-schickeria, you would clearly have the right heart in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Who is the "left media schickeria"?]] These people – I say that right now – beat you in the middle of the face, for example, by big announcement here: The Federal Forests are sold out. See that as a chance! If you, Mr Schwamlein, do not know anyone who wants to buy the Federal Forest in the small area, take me here. Look at me: As a small miner from the Mölltal, I will try to get a small separation from the Bundesforsten Millstatt. – For this I am a living example. [[Abg. Swimlein: But let's keep talking if you have it!]] Mr Schwamlein! Your current call shows the reference you have to agriculture. This is the maximum of your mental horticulture in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7815	Deputies! I don't think that's exactly the way we should look after each other. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that was really not bad!]] I would ask you to pay attention to the further remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7857	Truth often hurts. I understand that, and I respect it, Mr President. It is basically to be said that this Federal Forest sale is quite an opportunity for small farmers to increase their farm. It is also quite an opportunity to see from the historical side that these areas were taken away from the people at Maria Theresia's times. Especially objectionable is the fact that you say: Through this Federal Forest sale, a "construction of nature" was supposed to occur. – I wish that some of you would have gone down here and thanked the Austrian farmers: for the pure air, for the pure water, for the absence of BSE in our country! And the following: In principle, the rural population has recognized at the latest at the bottom of Moscow, the current President of the SPÖ Party, Gusenbauer, which spiritual homeland you are to be assigned to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7900	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7921	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheuch, since you have answered us today with a very comprehensive quote or proverb, I can also tell you one thing: "When the sun is very deep, small dwarfs also cast great shadows." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the budget chapter of the environment. For the year 2001, 6,1 billion schillings are available for this chapter. That's a little more than last year, but you have to hold three important points. First: This federal government has clearly failed to put a national climate change package on its feet. Secondly, There is no additional funding for the important area of anti-atomic policy. Thirdly, The funds for environmental measures abroad, with the 60 million schilling we had in the budget last year, remain insignificant. We can't see a single signal towards environmental policy – and that's bad! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The donation of the Water Economic Fund is a huge problem; this has already been pointed out by Mr Bauer today. In this area, there will be massive cuts in the coming years. I don't need to mention what this means for our urban water industry. I am thinking, for example, of the degree of connectivity of various federal states. Mr Scheuch! This would have been a reason, for example, for you mentioned this today, because just Carinthia is here in the last place and would urgently need the money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although there is a high investment need, there will be only more this year the special tranche with 3.9 billion schilling, and next year this amount will be reduced to 3.5 billion. In the following years 2002 and 2003 only 3 billion schilling will be left at all. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This means not only a massive decline in environmental policy, but also a massive negative impact on our labour market. Today, it is assumed that 1 200 construction workers will be affected by these cuts in the next year, 2001. – So much to the economic damage caused by these measures. At the same time, we know that this reduced volume of construction does not meet the requirements of the European directive on municipal waste water. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is, we cannot even meet our self-imposed goals – and that is to shame, Federal Minister. This is not an environmental policy that catapults us forward, but quite the contrary: That's a step back. This is an environmental policy that we do not mean and therefore will not support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7993	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8015	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The situation in Austria's agriculture was extremely stable until that day when the issue of BSE arose. Due to many discussions I had with farmers in the last half of the year, I can tell you that these were actually satisfied. There were stable milk, meat and breeding prices. – This optimism, however, has unfortunately been transformed into a different mood by the topic of BSE; much has already been said about it today. On the issue of BSE, we must not beautify! The first ones are the farmers, and others will follow: whether it be in the processing industry, whether it be the consumers in the future. BSE cannot be solved by mutual debt allocations, which do not help us further, but we need to resolve this issue seriously, across Europe, but also through national measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I should like to ask for a certain degree of solidarity from all of us, a certain amount of confidence in our farmers. We have brought it to date, and we hope and wish that we will continue to have the confidence of the population and consumers in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I personally believe that this crisis will create an opportunity and that in the medium term, small farmers, well-structured agriculture in Austria, which has produced good and healthy food, will get a chance from this BSE crisis. We must live with a sad reality in agriculture: In 1995 to 1999, there was a reduction in income of 16.7 percent per holding. We are not looking for those who are guilty, but there are reasons and reasons for that. Austria has small structures, small farms, mountain areas and disadvantaged regions. We are therefore under international pressure and need an agricultural budget that supports and supports us in our work. We hope that in future we can also secure the budget for our agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Agriculture in Austria needs broad, diverse ways. Production alone cannot preserve our small farms. We need new cooperation with industry, trade and trade, we need to get closer to the consumer. However, as in all fields of work, we must also pay attention to education. We, the rural population in rural areas, need access to the latest technology, information technology and communications technology. Of course, the media must also be included in our considerations. We need to improve our structures through the rural development programme. We're going to force biomass, it's a chance on the ground, we can become more energy-independent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The 2001 budget balances harshness and loss of income for farmers, strengthens rural areas, puts emphasis on new and current opportunities. But the farmers also make their contribution by saving the agricultural administration and the structures, delaying the amount of the base and receiving the agricultural diesel in the future, as I hope, as I hope. The agricultural budget is an important contribution, not only to farmers but also to the whole country and to our citizens. I hope and wish that everyone today will share in solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8090	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8111	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to deal with some of the statements made by my previous speakers during this debate. Mr Schwarzenberger, you have said in your remarks that the base amount would be introduced according to new criteria, that it has already been implemented and that this is for the benefit of the Austrian farmers. Mr Schwarzenberger! If you take a closer look at the proposed calculations by the Federal Ministry for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, which have been consulted or decided in some chambers and have been valid, you can see that your proposal – which has been implemented – means a reduction in the previous compensation payment by 1 000 S. This 1 000 s reduction should be an advantage for the Austrian farmers, especially for the small ones? – Mr Schwarzenberger! You need to "head" me, I can't understand that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A comment on Mr Ellmauer, who has spoken here for an increase or increase in the staff of the Forestry Professionals at the Federal Forests: Mr Ellmauer! The discussion over the last few weeks should have passed without any trace. Faith You really are saying that a company that, although has spent 210 million schilling last year for the budget to the Republic, with a sale of 50,000 hectares – that is only a "smallness" of some percent – will, however, make up about 62 500 single-family house property areas, that is, only one "smallness", it is only a few percent – in the forestry sector will include additional professionals if it is burdened with 4 billion schilling? What are they supposed to do with that? – The opposite is the case! The Austrian Federal Forests will have to separate themselves from professionals because they also no longer have the land, the economic forest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They act here as sandmoons. You want to scatter sand into the eyes of us and the population, while, in fact, you do something quite different: pick up, sell, hide, throw out family silver at the price of scrap! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another issue was a very strong one in this debate, namely the development of rural areas. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Rural development began in the 1970s and was implemented very successfully and efficiently. [[Abg. Grandruck:... of course grown!]] Mr Grossruck! You can also learn something, then your calls may be a bit better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With mining promotion in the 1970s, a positive development of rural areas was in fact carried out. There is now a billion programme, but according to Mr Molterer's reply in the Committee on Budgets, how the impact on the non-agricultural or non-agricultural rural population is intended: Under the 2001 budget, around 3 per cent of the total rural development budget is planned under Article 33. – That means: 97 percent benefit the courts and only 3 percent of the rest of the economy or the rural population! If this is to be the big throw for rural development, then: Good night, rural! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is still much to be said, for example in connection with BSE, in connection with the sale of the Federal Forests or in connection with the Austrian agricultural policy. Federal Minister! In connection with BSE, I would like to ask you another question that I asked you last week. They said there would be a need for confidence building measures. At the time, I mentioned an example from the magazine "profile" where a panel is pictured, which is set up in the cafeteria or in the restaurant of the European Council, on which it reads: "You can eat our beef calmed down, our beef comes from Argentina." – These are not confidence-building measures for us! Or: The Council meeting will be held behind closed doors. These are not confidence-building measures! The results of the deliberations and the Austrian position I hear from colleagues from abroad – it is: Austria may refrain from national measures, provided that evidence is given that the Community measures have been implemented throughout the Union, and this is confirmed by the Commission – the exact opposite of what you, Federal Minister, have explained to parliamentarians in this House last week! This is a step back, and that is why we cannot agree to the budget. The main reason, however, is that this 2001 budget once again denied the opportunity to distribute Austrian agricultural support more justly, to provide the means of Austrian agricultural support for those they actually need: the small, family-run agricultural structures in Austria. Since this is another wrong chance, we will not vote in favour of the agricultural budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8179	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8200	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The speaker's desk is very often misused by the colleagues of the Karl Oellinger to pretend things that one believes to have done especially in the anti-AKW policy, but which are not really in line with reality. Mrs Glavischnig has done this again today and, above all, has asked the question: What is the FPÖ doing in the field of environmental policy? What does the Federal Government do in this regard? – I thought I was going to present this to a bit more detailed. Mrs Glawischnig! This FPÖ has begun the dialogue with the Czechs, and your colleague Moser was also in the delegation. I think that was a good start to the talks that were then carried on here in Austria. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Öllinger and Dr Glawischnig.]] These discussions – also the SPÖ was very constructively involved with colleagues Brix and Doppelmüller; this must not be forgotten – were here in Vienna continued constructively and, as I think, also completed with a good result. If I look back at your visit to Temelin today, I have to say that I am sorry that I did not postpone the date I had fixed at the time – and that was the reason why I was not there – because you had a great opportunity in Temelin, the You didn't use it because it was once again about the media presentation, once again about "Kronen-Zeitung" photos, to headlines, and not about the thing itself. It is a shame to forget the matter out of pure consideration for media effectiveness. This is a service that has not done well for the entire anti-atomic policy, which was always carried by all four parties in this House in the past. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Glawischnig! Media effectiveness – beautiful and good, but only if it is associated with results! Without results, it cannot be useful in the long run. And that it's only about media effectiveness, this open letter shows. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] They're sending today, 6. December, an open letter. The Greens send an open letter to Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] What do you want? – They want this summit to be held with the representatives of the Federal Government, with the representatives of Parliament, of the countries and of the NGOs. ==References== Mrs Glawischnig! To date, you have not contacted the parties represented here in Parliament to discuss this summit. To date, you have not contacted the representatives of the Federal Government. They send an open letter and say: I want this now. If I really want something, I'll go to the Federal Minister and say: Could we please present our position once again before the summit on the 12th of this month? [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] Then I go to the representatives of the parties sitting here in Parliament and say: My wish would be for us to talk again about all that we want to give to the Federal Government for this summit. They are about an open letter, once again about one – let's say – story that you don't really take seriously, because it's just about the headline and nothing else. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Alibihandel!]] These are pure alibi treatments, Mrs Glawischnig. This is even so far that you ignore the fact that there has already been a further contact with the representatives of the Czech negotiating side that the hotline has already been fixed so well that the international security check is well fixed and that the Czech authorities have also signaled approval of the comprehensive environmental impact assessment. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Parent]] All of this is a negotiation success of this federal government. I hope that you will not be able to attach this to your flags – even with the help of your friends journalists. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I tell you that what you are trying to do in this letter is somehow proof of ignorance: At the Nice Summit, neither Temelin will be a subject, nor will the Federal Minister be present there. This is about institutional reform, so far as I can tell you. Temelin is not a subject there, and the Federal Minister is not present there as an Austrian representative. This testifies to ignorance of things. I will also inform you from here, so that you do not dispute it again about the magazine "Format": In a letter that I have sent to you – and I say so today so that the stories with the untruths will not come up again – Mr Benesch invited me to another conversation. Mrs Glawischnig! Subject to the outcome of the summit, I will be the 20th. Proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States This is what I wanted to tell you from the speaker's desk so that it is also logged so that you can't go to the "format" again with untruths.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8290	The next speaker is Mr Johannes Schweisgut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8314	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The discussion of the chapter on agriculture and forestry and the environment tends to end. Nearly 60 speakers have dealt with this issue. I believe that the budget chapter on agriculture has offered many positive aspects. Above all, I welcome the fact that most of the budget comes from EU funds. Of course, today's budget debate has been overshadowed by the BSE problem, but at this point I would also like to make it clear – and this is very clear – that the Austrian path of strict controls and, above all, of small businesses and the strengthening of these small businesses has been a right path that we have been taking for many years. The strengthening of rural small farms was mainly aimed at organic farmers. I would also like to point out once again that in the 2001 Federal estimates, these farmers are also increasingly encouraged and can therefore continue to offer their natural products. I would also like to say that the budget has been increased in the field of the organic sector – and that, although this new BSE scandal, which has caused an intensification of the situation in agriculture, has not yet been known. That means: The government has put measures in the right direction in good time. After all, Austria, with more than 20 000 organic holdings, has the absolute highest number in the EU – right, the relatively highest number. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: "Absolut" is incorrect, Mr. Cot! Relative!]] Italy has the absolute highest number, but relatively there is the highest number in Austria. In recent years, however, the situation for organic farmers has, of course, become somewhat difficult and increasingly difficult. Especially in Tyrol, many farmers have left the organic programme in recent years. The reasons for this are varied: It may be the very sharp control measures, which are of course also positive to see, perhaps the marketing strategy, but especially, of course, that the Austrians' willingness to buy organic products is not yet available to the extent that it should actually be. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: This is due to the distribution structures! Local forces have too little money to make a proper marketing!]] Another difficulty is certainly also the problem of animal husbandry in the old courts. This is certainly a problem that will have to be solved in the future: You may not be able to offer an optimal organic holding on the small farms located in the villages, especially as far as the free runs are concerned. The estimates provided for in the budget will certainly have some effect on the tense situation. However, the existence of a organic farmer cannot be preserved alone by means of promotions; even after that, we must focus on it in the future. While subsidies are intended to support the production and sale of organic products, subsidies cannot be the only possibility for our farmers in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Additional sources of income for many organic farmers are, of course, also the "Holiday at the farm" and the horse-breeding. Mr. Minister! I should like to ask you not to forget horse breeding in the future, because it is an important source of by-catch for organic farmers, especially in the Tyrolean sector! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this area, I would like to ask you not to make the cuts, especially in the case of subsidies, linearly, but also in the next few years, as well as in the past, to address individual problems. Minister! I may also ask you, in this context, to support the recognition of the Haflinger breeding book as a source breeding book in the sense of our Haflinger breeders in the EU. 10 000 Haflinger breeders are affected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, Willi, that's important!]] In this sense, I can say in summary that organic farmers should continue to be supported in all interests in the future and that the original breeding book should come not only to Lipizzan, but also to Haflinger to Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8397	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8418	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I brought Taferln. [[The speaker puts a table on the government bank and the speaker's desk.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't forget to miss!]] – So on the shit you're putting out, not even a swammerl is growing! [[Call the SPÖ: You can't see that!]] [[The speaker changes the position of the panel.]] Satisfied? - Good. For those who look very bad, I also have a bigger one. Dear friends in the High House! Friends of agriculture and those who insult the farmers! I mean all of you today with my words. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] No, colleagues need to get to know them. - Good. We have farmers in Austria who do violent things, that is undisputed. We have an environmental programme in Austria, which is great, and we can go our own way on the basis of the European basis, because we have imagination. Above all, however, we have a broken minister and argiculture chambers who work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We still have consumer confidence in Austria. And I'm telling you honestly: Important for Austria Agriculture is consent to the House, but even more important is that consumers know that what they get from us is honest products that we really stand behind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It hurts me personally when a certain colleague, brother-in-law, makes the farmers responsible for BSE. My God, he doesn't understand it better – sorry is appropriate, so I allow him to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I'm sure it's: If one and the same group says that industrial agriculture is guilty of it, and then again say that the farmers are guilty of it, then I think you should at least make up your mind what is meant. We, the Austrian farmers, can only say again: for ten years now no animal meal – before we did not need it – the highest standards. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Only with the cattle, but not with the pigs!]] We are clean in our own area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore also like to ask the friends of this group to think about what they are doing if they "reduce" such a black-and-white argument. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] I want They point out that there are not only farmers in Austria, but also a food processing industry that makes around 110 billion schilling of sales annually, has about 55 000 employees and pays 20 billion schilling of wages, and this food industry is our transmission belt to consumers. Of course, we are happy about every consumer who buys on the farm. In the main, however, it is that the diet habits, the lifestyles of today, that our customers buy convenience products, buy prefabricated products from the food industry. We all work with the lowest margins and without reserves, and if you are talking artificially about a crisis that is not taking place in Austria, then you are mainly endangering the viability of our processing plants; also the farmers', but we are holding out a lot. We're used to being enough. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] But once the processing industry goes down the stream, then we can only complain about Austrian products and talk about the good old age. Once Masterfood or some European giant has the say in us, the Austrian AMA quality mark is no longer interested in, but only in, the cheap price, the exchangeability of producers and, ultimately, only more that the consumer swallows, digests, swallows, digests. Friends! Austria's agriculture, it's about life, it's about the environment, it's about the future and sustainability – and above all: it's about people and human dignity. Mr Bauer, who does not have the worst reputation in Lower Austria, has spoken about ethics in agriculture. I even think he's serious. We will continue to discuss these topics in Austria in the future, because we have had a lot to show over the last ten years and we will continue to work well in this area. You can trust the Austrian farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8538	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8560	Mr President. I can do it briefly – it will just take a little longer than an actual correction. Such a one would have been appropriate. Because it's so strange, you have to step back a little: Mr Schweitzer introduces in a whiting manner what the Greens in person of the colleague Glavischnig would not have done again that she was in the "Kronen-Zeitung", with picture and what I know. – Mr Schweitzer, who is not here right now, what do you want? Do you want to go to the "Kronen-Zeitung"? Do you want to use a more beautiful picture in the "Kronen-Zeitung" than Mrs Eva Glavischnig? [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That is impossible, that is excluded!]] – You could actually correct that again if anyone finds himself. Stay where the subject belongs! The FPÖ has not only resigned from the representation of the so-called little man, it is also no longer the pioneer against abuse of power, it has not brought any further environmental policy since it was in the government, and is now running hectically around in the person of Mr Schweitzer and is fighting for colleague Glavischnig. That is totally unbelievable, and this is simply a deposit here! And by the way, to calm down the situation: This letter, which was referred to and criticised here, was sent to the chancellor on Friday with the request and the request to comply with its coordination function, namely as chancellors, so that this is also clarified here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I am still using the word for a last word because we are in the middle of the budget debate and Minister Molterer is present today different from the debate on the budget accompanying laws. At the first discussion of this matter he was, I believe, not there. At that time he was represented by Mrs Gehrer for good reasons. I would like to add our ceterum censeo to the debate on the environmental funds. In my opinion, quite contrary to the statements made by Mr Kaipel today, this could be the case in this House. The area will be considerably more saved if environmental promotion targets are finally forced and not always put on these large-scale technological solutions. There is a lot inside, and we hope that these proposals will be taken up and that this will be treated with a little more respect and that the Minister of Finance will not, on every occasion, declare that the Greens have no proposals for anything or nothing. In this area, environmental, economic and social security are needed if we finally prefer the small-scale solutions. I have not yet given up the hope, Minister Molterer, to win in you a provisionally still secret but soon public co-compatriots for this matter. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8603	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8625	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on rural and rural development with my contribution to debate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us move back four decades and try to define rural areas! I am thinking mainly of agriculture, of farms. We can see that 40 years ago there were around 400 000 farms, that the proportion of agricultural and forestry workers was around 23 percent – not quite a quarter or over a fifth – and that at that time the farms were led to 60 percent in full and full acquisition. At the time, there were many job seekers who had moved into the city to find work, and there was at that time the keyword "Landfleet". It was a clear trend from country to city. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! 40 years later, today in 2000, there are around 250 000 farms, a minus of approximately 36 percent, and the proportion of agricultural workers is only about 5 percent, a minus of almost 80 percent. For the rural area of today, the question is: Is this a threat or an opportunity for farmers, but also a chance for our society? – Today’s rural area is apart from the production of food: Economic area, cultural area, tourism and leisure space, habitat. But above all, my very dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: The rural area is home to the entire population in this area. Today the reverse trend is recognizable: working in the city and living in the countryside. I would like to support this with an example: Our new capital in Lower Austria, the city of St. Pölten, had nearly 50,000 inhabitants during the last census in 1991. Today, in 2000, just before the upcoming census, which is known to take place in May 2001, the city has just under 50,000 inhabitants. On the other hand, the surrounding communities have an above-average population development. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The picture of rural areas or rural development is different today than four decades ago, but will be different in a few decades than today. Today we are talking about global markets, about mobility, about city and country together, and we feel this change. However, we also feel the longing for local structures, for new quality of life, especially in the private sector. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this development offers opportunities for rural areas. Our Austrian rural development programme in particular has been recognised and particularly taken into account by the EU in the negotiations of the Agenda 2000 in Berlin. And thanks to the negotiating skills of our Federal Minister Molterer, 5.83 billion of the EU will be made available to Austria annually by the year 2006. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A new rural development programme is essentially concerned with the so-called Article 33 measures. Mr Gradwelt. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank If you think that these measures are precisely for the individual farmers, I would like to point out that these investments in networked activities and Community projects also serve the objective of ensuring and improving the vitality of rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With a new perspective, supported by a new funding programme, new perspectives for rural development are emerging. However, forward-looking prospects also offer opportunities for new income opportunities. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8676	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8697	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Welcome! – Federal Minister Molterer! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the debate on agriculture must not end without discussing the problem of BSE and mass animal husbandry, in particular, being a problem of animal welfare. This has so far been too short. EU-wide business is being done with animal suffering, ladies and gentlemen! Austria's farmers make a trip between animal husbandry, price pressure and high quality standards. And many of our farmers are crashing at this climbing party. The EU and its Commissioner have so far squandered on the issue of animal welfare, but that can no longer be the case. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Yes!]] It is because of equal opportunities that animal farming needs uniform animal welfare standards. I hope at least we agree on this statement. We should not miss the opportunity that this sad product of denatured feeding has brought about without referring to it! Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, the countries finally agreed on the Article 15a Treaty on increased animal welfare in the non-agricultural sector. That is enough for me and for us freedom of movement that in this area federal rules and a animal welfare law for free living animals, animals in the house, in the home, in zoos and in commercial animal husbandry are created! [[Congratulations on the liberals and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Perfuss.]] There is no need for rethinking in this respect. Mrs Perfuss! You too know that we have been tending in a uniform direction in this sector for a long time. However, this cannot conceal the fact that we must strive for EU-wide standards in the breeding animals sector. Federal Minister! Another word: As a performer of the Water Law Act, I call for a promise that a retrofitting will be carried out in the field of ascent aid to hydropower plants! You have put this in view, I ask you to continue here! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8747	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8768	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! My predecessor addressed the concern regarding federal uniform and higher standards in the field of animal welfare. I think that such a matter would not only benefit animals but would also be important for consumer protection and the survival of small and medium-sized farms. Member of the Grollitsch! However, you do not seem to have been able to convince your colleague, Schwarzenberger, because we have been biting on granite for many years at the ÖVP, and I think that is a pity! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! You have repeatedly praised the small and medium-sized structure of Austrian agriculture in your statements and in discussions on television. email-custom-header-Security Undoubtedly, the situation in Austria is even better than in other European countries, but the trend – and the ÖVP is responsible for this trend! – is bad. Federal Minister! They know as well as we do the statistics on how quickly the concentration process progresses. The last Green Report shows that 0.2 percent of chicken farmers already have 2.8 million laying hens. They're not small farmers! 9.8 percent of chicken farmers have 5.7 million chickens. And 7.5 percent of pig farmers have 1.8 million pigs. – Unfortunately, for all animals, including the cattle, an incredibly rapid process of concentration is to be determined, and for these processes, Mr. Federal Minister, you bear the responsibility! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not true that Austria had clearly opposed these concentration efforts. As today, the ÖVP as a government party was pressured to conform to the standards of the agro-industrial industry. Here in the Hohe Haus you sing the High Song of Small Businesses, and if foreign guests are here, there is of course an excellent Austrian biobuffet, but when it came to creating the legal framework, the ÖVP has already made twice the pressure to raise the stock limits: 1994 when accession to the EU and recently in connection with the EIA thresholds. Is this your support for small farms? – This is clearly a move towards the agro-industrial industry, and you cannot really save this criticism! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come back again to support organisations and thus to the budget figures and amend the amendment tabled by the Greens concerning the designation of the title of the government template as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] What can be understood is clear. Federal Minister! They know that bio-organisations have an indispensable role to play in quality control. The Austrian organic farms – and these are many, but they are by far not all farms – have never participated in the insanity of animal meal feeding, and they have been the organic organisations that have provided excellent and strict controls. These producers have rightly gained the best consumer confidence! However, the budgets will be reduced for these farms. That is why we want the approach that you have reduced from 14 million schillings to 11 million schillings to be doubled, because I believe that the Austrian organic farms and their associations have the right to be honoured accordingly right now! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Compared to the increase in AMA alone, this amount is in any case a lappalie! We want to increase from 14 million schilling to 28 million schilling. This would be urgently needed in the sense of strengthening consumer confidence! Federal Minister! They have said that organic farmers and their associations can partially recover or apply for the money through training measures. But you know exactly that is not the case! In this context, it is really about power and influence! What you are trying to do with your budget policy is clear: This is a discipline for the organic farmers. These can probably come from training funds, but only from the monopoly of the chambers. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: No, that's wrong!]] Mr Federal Minister, why don't you give the money to the bio-unifications themselves and create their own position for further education? That would be possible, too! We want the autonomy of these associations to be able to determine their own training measures and not to beg about another approach! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! As I said, There are about 20,000 organic farms in Austria. This is much in European comparison, but a very large majority of farms do not belong to it, and you also know that although a majority of Austrian businesses are in the ÖPUL programmes, about 15 percent of farms are not. Federal Minister! If you continue to do so and always the coat of silence over the few large ones that we have in Austria, wide, if you are not allowed to detect and address abuses, then bear the main responsibility for the fact that the uncertainty is not effectively addressed! You know exactly that there are shortcomings with these few very large ones that we have in Austria, such as drug use, lobbyism, interventions with you and the media. There is an attempt to prevent unannounced controls from taking place. As long as you do not really ensure that the production of food is as transparent as possible, and as long as possible You don't really have full confidence in the bio-organisations too, so long you run the risk that consumers will not believe anything at all at any time, and that would be very bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8930	The amendment that has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Since no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate. We are therefore voting on the opinion group VIII of the Federal Proposal for 2001. To this end, Members of Parliament have received Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, Gradwelt and Comrades submitted an amendment. First of all, I will be voting on the part of the proposed amendment and finally on the non-coordinated financial legal approaches of the Advisory Group VIII. We are now voting on the amendment tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, Gradwelt and Comrades on the 1/60146 approach. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the financial legal approach in 310 of the Supplements and seek out those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it for a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the rest of the financial legal approaches of the Advisory Group VIII, which have not yet been agreed. This includes Chapters 60 and 61 of the Federal Proposal in 310 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group VIII of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber and comrades on global ecologicalisation of Austrian agriculture. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser and Mr Comrades on the introduction of mandatory, clear and transparent labelling of animal products. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. Advisory Group X Chapter 65: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9034	We are now entering the negotiations on the advisory group X of the Federal Proposal for 2001. First of all, Mr Eder, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9059	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As part of the government reform debate two weeks ago, we have already debated the chaos that your predecessor, Mrs Bundesminister, has left you behind. I am thinking, for example, of the disability of infrastructure development by moving and moving projects without an overall plan or by failing to implement truck-road pricing, which is why road construction lacks the necessary money. Although this government is wrinkling the drivers around 13 billion schilling on the one hand, on the other hand, it leaves the truck lobby almost unscrupulous. As examples, I also mention the auction of UMTS licenses in the outcome of the East-East-ern auction, which lost 20 billion schilling to taxpayers, and the rigid privatisation of Telekom AG, in connection with which this government has retained another 20 billion schilling from taxpayers. – These figures do not correspond to my estimates, but to the estimates of the Minister of Finance of this government. Further examples are the complete task of all the positions of Austrian transit policy in the negotiations, which will require more transit for the Austrian population, and the complete neglect of transport safety policy despite high accident rates. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would therefore like to discuss the future with you today in the first place. You will have to consider a lot, and you will need a lot of strength and energy to get transport policy back on the right track! Since you entered the Federal Government However, I believe that it is already responsible for two major misdemeanors. First of all, in the context of the EU-wide railway liberalisation and the intervention for the demolition of the Austrian Federal Railways into an Infrastructure AG and in an operating company, I believe, there were serious mistakes, namely, the fact that the company lost around one billion schillings in synergies. This would mean that some 86 million tonnes of freight transport would require additional 35 million tonnes in order to compensate for these losses, and that is more impossible. In the field of diplomacy, we have been very upset by these considerations: France and Germany: We are no longer considered to be truly reliable on this issue. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Do not continue this path, but confess to an integrated company! The Austrian Federal Railways are well organized and on the way to becoming a very large company in the internationally growing European logistics sector. This company now needs the full support of national policies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The new ASFINAG law will increase road construction debt to up to 35 billion schilling. This is an out-of-budget debt for which all taxpayers are liable. This is not a way to a zero budget, but an uncovered change, which is issued by the proposed federal states agreements! Jobs Therefore, you prefer the road infrastructure financing on healthy legs! Start the truck-road pricing as soon as possible. With a set of around 4 s per kilometer, all necessary infrastructure measures can be financed quickly. Mrs. Federal Minister! Place the entire transport infrastructure on a proper planning basis, and adopt a comprehensive federal road map or master plan. In this context, clear priorities are needed. Build the West Railway as soon as possible! But I also ask you: What happens to the South Railway in view of the decisions of the heads of state Pröll, Häupl and Stix – and now Niessl? What is your attitude on this question? Or: How will you improve links with the Eastern European countries on rail and road? When will the bottlenecks on the Austrian motorways be eliminated, in particular two tube tunnels, for example, in the Tauerntunnel and at Katschberg? And how do you finally want all this to be financed and implemented? Such a plan is more than overdue and to be completed as soon as possible! Special heavy weight in infrastructure development is to be attributed to the Eastern Region and in particular to the Greater Region of Vienna. High-level transport links to the East need to be improved. I am thinking of the A5 motorway stretcher Kittsee, as well as the extension of the railway tracks and secondary railway tracks. Vienna needs a highway-fastway ring around the city to relieve mainly the residential areas. Vienna must remain a railway hub. Therefore, the Lainzer Tunnel will be built as quickly as possible and a Vienna Central Station will be designed. Vienna, however, also needs better local transport to the surrounding area, therefore more local transport and a wide-ranging extension of the Vienna lines to the surrounding area according to the Pendler currents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only in this way will it be possible to ensure the economic location and quality of the economic location accordingly in Vienna. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Stop kicking the pendlers! Ensuring fair compensation for infrastructure costs! Operation You do not have a social reduction, either in the case of telephone fees or in the case of newspaper tariff discounts! Get low social rates, especially in public transport! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Help the pendulums, and raise the mileage by 50 sizes, from currently 4,90 S to 5,40 S, not only for drivers, but regardless of the choice of means of transport! This would be the crucial help for many commuters and a forward-looking transport concept! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: She's not responsible!]] Even if the call comes that you are not responsible, I am asking you to help, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You also need to become more active at international level. Austria needs a new transit contract beyond 2003. What about the Brennermaut suit? What about the ecopoint system? - Set They are pressing through the Austrian demands, especially towards the European Union. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! All these decisions cannot be pushed to the long-term stage. They must be met now and quickly. Of course, we Socialists are willing to support the Austrian interests in the question of transit for the benefit of the population. We will judge you according to your actions, according to the strength of the future, by the social dimension, by the economy, by the proximity of citizens and by the environment. For talks, Mrs Bundesminister, we are also happy to be available between the political groups at any time. Nor do I welcome Mrs Bundesminister, wishing you every good thing for these difficult tasks in the interests of the Austrian population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9116	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9140	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Eder! That was the same thing as last time: They have read down the claim catalogue in a bit. This is the same demand catalogue, which has been prayed down x-time, Mr. Edler, in press releases by you, by your colleagues, by the predecessor Parnigoni and a bit of ex-minister One, who was known to have responsibility for it once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Because you don't think anything else!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do something!]] Claims, claims, claims are made. One would have to get the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that nothing has actually happened in the last 13 years in which a SPÖ Transport Minister had the command in the Radetzkygasse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] This is the impression you left behind as the first speaker of the parliamentary group of Social Democracy. That is shocking, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I really have to tell you one thing: If you have brought together nothing but demands that you should have addressed yourself at the right time, my colleagues from the Socialist Group, to repeat here, then this is indeed a poor result. [[Abg. Eder: A year ago, only you asked!]] . I know, Mr Eder, you still have to work on your new role as SPÖ Transport Spokesperson. Some of you probably don't feel that way yet, but that's gonna be all right. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we must rely on a few facts – nothing but facts – and on naked facts in a debate to be taken seriously. [[Abg. Eder: The problems are the same!]] – Yes, Mr President, the problems are many times, but: Who has been Minister of Transport for 13 years? – It was not freedom, it was people of your group! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Who left this mess behind? Was that a freeman? [[Call the SPÖ:Kukacka!]] – Mutify yourself, and think about it. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder went to the speaker's desk and said that the Federal Minister for Infrastructure did not implement road pricing. Mr Eder and Mr Colleague Ex-Finanzminister!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9260	Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask Mr Firlinger to explain his remarks, otherwise he will have to hit the pult again, and I believe we should try to avoid that. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9286	Mr President. I have a loud voice in myself and can usually prevail. I thank you for the kind support. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder went to the speaker's desk and claimed that the minister had the road pricing run and didn't do anything. That's not true. Where is this written, Mr Eder, what you are saying here? – The road pricing is in full swing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Watch out!]] [[Abg. Eder: Where?]] The planning work on road pricing is fully under way. [[Abg. Eder: 1998 you still asked!]] Only this, Mr Eder, is not that road pricing, and not that concept that you have defended for five or more years on devils, although you knew a few years ago that it is completely outdated and does not correspond to the last state of the art. But you don't care. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Firlinger needs to learn to go!]] Mainly, it's investing, essentially, it's being thrown money out to the window. Reflow, economics and such things have always been a foreign word for you and remain a foreign word, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is true that in August – I have said it before, but I say it again – there were intensive expert discussions at the Ministry of Transport. This was considered – you all know exactly that, even if you claim something else today – whether the transition to a high-performance, modern technology is feasible or not. The result is understandable to me: It's feasible. And now it's going into the new phase. That is why I wonder what you really want. You want to be insecure, you want to beg something down. But that is not enough for me for a targeted transport policy. [[Abg. Eder: 3.5 billion loss for...!]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: What's the nonsense with the demolition of the ÖBB? – You know, it's also such a keyword that comes across your lips. [[Abg. Eder: That's where Schmid was different from you! Schmid was my opinion!]] It's about something completely different. In the future, I believe, we will have an opinion, also with you, Mr Eder, and I believe, even with the Greens, which is certainly more the exception, bringing more rail from the growth rates of traffic. [[Abg. Edlinger: I can't imagine that!]] Ergo of this, ladies and gentlemen, we also have to sell capacities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Rail capacity needs to be sold, and currently hardly any additional rail capacity is sold because all this is a monopoly-like conglomerate with only a theoretical separation of infrastructure and sales, but not a factual separation. [[Abg. Edler: Why not!]] [[Abg. Eder: No one buys a locomotive and a train! A truck is cheaper than a train!]] That is the fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edler: That's not true at all!]] By law, a regulator, a rail regulator, was used to ensure competition and monitor competition. But what should the rail regulator do if there is no competition? – I think Mr Fuhrmann is in honor, but he would have expected something else. We, of course, as legislators, must ensure that this rail regulator can actually ensure competition and has a broad scope of activity. [[Abg. Edellinger: Make the choices!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] – But, of course, Mr Eder! Ladies and gentlemen! It is about creating clear structures of responsibility. It is a question of creating the structures, that in the international context, in the international structure as well as on the rails, the best possible utilization is achieved, and that not only the company ÖBB and a few – I say – could use smaller private railways, but we could go much further and open the network. [[Abg. Edler: Cost truth! You don't trust that!]] But as long as the Moloch is in the foreground, this, ladies and gentlemen, will not work. That's the problem. I can only take on You appeal: Please get rid of the thought: The moment one changes an example at the ÖBB, the world breaks down. It may collapse the socialist world of thought, because each change creates a new dynamic, because of course the company is put on a completely different, modern basis and because certainly a certain pressure of performance is generated. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the Coalition Agreement we have come to know that we want to modernise the company, we want a higher degree of self-financing, we want to thoroughly explore the non-commercial capital once, and we want the weaknesses that exist can also be removed. [[Abg. Edler: Mrs. Schottel knows better than you do!]] [[Abg. Riepl: You are a braker in transport policy!]] We do not, however, want, ladies and gentlemen, to call into question the economic character of the ÖBB, because there is still a public service, and there is a very clear and 100% commitment by my group. This will not be agitated, ladies and gentlemen. So if we want to have a serious debate, ladies and gentlemen, we have to deal with many of these things very clearly and clearly and lead the debate and not simply put down demands. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the priorities are: This separation, this project, we will carry out. On the road we will introduce a modern, contemporary truck handling system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] On the road we will carry out the loophole, Mr. Cot, even if you are ageing. I'm just telling you what we're doing. No, it's not. The predecessor of the current Federal Minister, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schmid, has launched a number of measures. He started the testing of the Semmering base tunnel, and there is no reason to leave it. It was started that now the line Vienna–St. Pölten is built as the first priority in the high performance area, and there is also no reason to shake it. It will also not be forgotten on the Unterinntal and the problem area of the North South transit. Of course, all these questions cost a lot of money, and the priorities must always be questioned. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ten years you have been planning!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! You are always concerned with just one thing: throw out as much money as possible, invest billions or even spend billions; there is a difference between investing and spending. [[Abg. Edler: Say something specific!]] But it doesn't matter what the result then looks like, the main thing, the state has once again acted as an entrepreneur. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not available for such a policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We want to make a different policy. We want to make a policy in which the accountant, Mr Eder, is constantly at stake. [[Abg. Eder: What policy?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9580	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9602	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! It is not quite easy to take the floor on an objective transport policy, according to my previous speaker, because he is so excited and is a bit nervous today. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: 35 S gas price!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: 35 S petrol price! Are you still there?]] But I'd like to try. Although Mr Haigermoser's calls have never been voted and still do not vote, he cannot abandon them. But this will not prevent me from saying something about transport policy and not about clothes that are being spread there, although they are beyond all reality. You've already lost a bet, maybe you'll lose a second bet on this topic. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I don't bet with you! Law-debts are honorary debts!]] But now on transport policy: For years – this is one of the most problematic areas of all Austrian politics – transport policy in Austria has been taking place, especially when it comes to real needs – I am also talking about the needs of commuters with public transport – but also about the government's own projects – that is interesting now. There is a chapter called "Strengthening Austria's Economic Location". A list of nine points can be found at the item "Infrastructure and Transport". Of these nine points, one is implemented, on which my previous speaker has already pointed out with his well-known vehemence, which is the so-called loophole. The gap line will be pulled through. The conclusion of the gap is, in fact, to establish new high-level road transport axles and to neglect public transport, young people, older people, people without cars, to cut the number and push off the market in a quite financial way. Mrs. Minister! I have heard some positive comments from you in the field of environmental protection and also in the field of social commitment. Please show your social commitment in this area by thinking not only in the windshield perspective, but also in helping those people who want to use other modes of mobility and multiple modes of transport finally to their right. This is what I consider to be the most important task in the future in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Road construction in Austria is carried out – regardless of whether nature conservation is at risk, for example, at the S 18 in Vorarlberg, whether there is a danger for nature conservation at the north motorway of Vienna in the direction of Brno in the Drasenhofen area, whether the Semmering Base Tunnel is the most violent discussion about the railway, but in the Semmering Scheitel route everything in terms of nature conservation is indifferent, regardless of whether residents suffer from increasing traffic congestion and therefore reject motorway plans, such as those from Linz to Budweis, but also for other routes, and whether there is really a need for new high-ranking routes or so generous routes, because one can in fact recognize that it is only a matter to hit transit traffic, the wide-ranging traffic of new snowrails at the expense of the arrainers. It also doesn't matter – now we're at the budget – whether the funding is available for these routes under the ASFINAG. Col. Kukacka always complains of the ASFINAG debt mountain with many large crocodile beaches. But now, when it comes to finding forms of financing that could actually bring about serious changes in this area, not only in road construction, but throughout the transport sector, we do not have the certainty that Mr Firlinger's promises that road pricing will come at the appropriate time can actually be respected. Of course you have to make a comment on this: If, on the basis of the size or small size of Austria, it will move within this financial framework, i.e. per truck-kilometre 1 S or 2 S, then we will not get under control of the ASFINAG's debt mountain, nor will we have any means of finally financing the entire transport system and overall processing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! You are new in office, so I hope that you may also make new considerations about the roads. I would like to make it quite clear to this government, especially on the subject of budgets, that it is necessary to build on politics, highways, highways and so-called routes, as was opened at the last weekend in Abfaltersbach – the priest has rebaptized the place into "Asphalersbach", and that it must be done with the right – if one wants to pursue a reasonable transport policy for the long term, which benefits all people and not just some groups that want to transport very quickly many goods on the road at the lowest prices. These new cords are more than interesting, especially in the discussion on the Greater Area of Vienna. [[Abg. Wattaul: Line traffic!]] The large motorway rings that are planned, whether it be a locomotive in the middle of the most valuable area of recreation and protection, be it the Ringautobahn around Graz, whether it be similar structures, like the Danube crossings, now go up in the priority list again. This is not a future policy! We have to deal with the fact that, of course, new tasks are now coming to us in the course of the Easter enlargement. If we put roads at the borders of the emerging economic areas in Central and Eastern Europe, these states will continue to build the streets, and then I wish you good luck and nice weather if you want to try to prevent a drama similar to that on the Inntal motorway really and objectively. This cannot be done as it has obviously been reintroduced now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Eder! I am shocked when, as a Social Democratic, you are so strongly defending this motorway ring around Vienna. [[Abg. Eder: Do you live in Floridsdorf? Do you live in Floridsdorf, Mrs. Colleague?]] – I live in the heart of the Inntal motorway, and I can only tell you that I do not wish you any future in the Greater Vienna area. [[Abg. Eder: Talk to the population of Brno Street, Prague Street! Then we need to discuss it!]] This is a central debate that we will have to hold next year. Since the money is to "pluralize" instead of making people benefit by means of a well-developed public transport, I think it is a wrong policy. [[Abg. Wattaul: Public transport is also on the road!]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! There are the mistakes in the past just as they have now been set up for the future. I'm always going to criticize that because I'm not on the side of the "Asphaltiers". [[Abg. Eder: Here we differ!]] This is not a concept of the future and has not proved successful. This applies equally to you, and especially to you, my Lord. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Public transport is also on the road! Have you heard that?]] What we would be doing once again in the face of international problems in transport policy. Mrs. Minister! I could tell the media that the toll has now been brought in, and I think this is a very important step. I would be interested in the form in which it was introduced and the question of the interlocutory order and the way in which it was done, because this is, of course, crucial for the future of the negotiations. Mrs. Minister! You will need a lot of backbone especially to your coalition partner ÖVP, who has for years actively prevented a reasonable transport policy when it comes to creating a new road cost directive at the level of the European Union, the sensitive corridors, the sensitive zones – we also have them in Eastern Austria – so that there is no more massive loads for the agrarians. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is still much to be discussed, for example, the so-called green new waterways, which one obviously wants to deepen by 30 percent more than it is required internationally at all. This is, of course, an attack on nature conservation. Or there would be much to discuss that a federal road map should finally develop into a legally binding instrument and not just remain a favorite catalogue of mayors, national leaders and asphalt animals, which has already given us enough problems in the past. But if you look into the future, I would of course like to address a central issue at the end of the day. [[Abg. Zweytick: Go to the future, don't look!]] Although there is more money in the budget for construction celebrations – it is obviously celebrated primarily on the road – for traffic safety, and since for research, there is less money, but you may as a new one still be able to change this by retransformations. In addition to a number of other problems, there is still a lack of persecution of ecopoint black drivers. Mrs. Minister! I would really ask you to consider whether there should be a number of national leaders who are in control in such a way that they are more involved in legal disputes than in dealing with the problem, not even by the ministry as something like an instruction. Here I speak of Landeshuptmann Weingartner. That, I think, would be important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But one point where we will have the biggest financial problems in the future – Mrs Minister, I would like to point out to you that this will not be tolerated by us – is if the financing of school leavers from FLAF is to be shortened by a legislative change and is tried to bring them into line with the public transport public transport public transport, with this word sample. If the school-free trips in Austria are the next field of the attack of this federal government against the weak in society, then you have to expect our decisive resistance! We will not accept that the same thing is happening in the free movement of students as in many other aid systems for more socially weak ones, namely to reduce the free movement of students by means of financial engineering to the point where parents are more asked to cash out. There will be resistance, but I hope you can do something with your commitment to these negotiations. That would be a disaster and the next social hit! Mrs. Minister! This is an important and central field of activity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because of these imbalances and the emerging problems in the budget area, the Greens cannot, of course, agree to the budget, especially in the field of infrastructure – even though Mr Kukacka will once again explain how he always does, that the only one who understands about the transport sector is because he has gratefully opposed the reduction of the Alko limit. [[Abg. Wattaul: With this we can live!]] [[Abg. Donabauer: He's doing well!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9834	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9864	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Lichtenberger is always very charming to me. But I don't want to follow her on this, I leave her. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing she has shown, namely that we will not solve the transport problems of the future with her ideas, but also with Mr Eder's ideas. This will require newer, more innovative ideas, and they have not presented both previous speakers – that is also clear and clear, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say the following: Finally, you have to distance yourself from your antique and backward transport policy, which has always been based only on the influence of the state which is exhausted in demanding ever more money from the public sector, which does not understand that the world of transport has changed over the last ten or twenty years, that we also have to do with the liberalisation of transport markets and traffic flows, ladies and gentlemen, and that the old false answers are no longer valid. [[Abg. That's right!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: There's no problem with each other! That's where we agree.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government has made a historic change in financial policy, and this federal government will also launch a trend change in transport policy! [[Abg. Riepl: Abkassieren!]] The financial heritage that this Federal Government has also taken over in transport policy must be updated – and that will be difficult enough, ladies and gentlemen! That also requires that all of us be prepared to change. There will be no convenient solutions in this area, as you always try to talk to us and, above all, to the citizens, ladies and gentlemen. There will be difficult decisions, and there will always be decisions that will not be taken by 100% of the population because there is hardly any other area than transport policy where there are so many different interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] [[Abg. Eder: That means more loads for the drivers! That's what you want to say!]] That is why no cheap opportunism is announced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For this difficult task, I wish the Federal Minister much success in all our interests. I mean, it's not fair to ask here again a whole catalogue of unresolved problems that have left us your transport ministers, ladies and gentlemen. You won't dispute that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: The road construction was always with Farnleitner! The bowl's already started!]] It was often used in budget cosmetics, especially in the transport sector. [[Abg. Eder: Traffic was always ÖVP! Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel, Farnleitner!]] Federal tasks were outsourced, private law organizations were created, debts were parked there and new debts were made, without ever thinking of repayment, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Eder: They were always there and voted in favour! They were always there and voted! You voted in favour of all billions!]] We are facing this problem today because you have always and everywhere gone the path of the slightest political resistance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Eder: You voted in favour of all billions! You've always been there!]] That was the wrong way. You don't need to get upset, Mr. Eder. [[Abg. Eder: You're pretending you weren't in the world!]] These are facts. You should reject these facts, but unfortunately you can't. They cannot also deny the debt mountain of around 250 billion Schilling, which this Federal Government has taken over. [[Abg. Riepl: Say what you would do!]] Today we are limping in many areas... – Let me speak out, then I will explain this to you immediately. [[Abg. Riepl: Finally say what you would do!]] You're very nervous because you know you have the responsibility. No matter in which areas, when I think about the train, when I think about the postal area, you have always locked down against new innovative solutions. [[Abg. Eder: You were responsible for road construction!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] She and the Tow Their socialist trade union has prevented post and Telekom from getting out of line in time for new solutions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Confess that you will not be able to postpone this responsibility! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: You have always voted in favour! You've always been there!]] [[Abg. Riepl: Tell me what you want at last!]] We'll do everything now...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10128	Ladies and gentlemen! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kukacka! I ask – with all my understanding of intermediate calls – not to go into permanent calls!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10144	Mr President, I should like to thank You don't need to remind me either, I know very well. That was a reason why we separated ourselves from you, namely: Their wrong financial policy, ladies and gentlemen, has put this state in great trouble. Take note of this, that was the main reason! We were not willing to continue this wrong path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Take this back!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's why you have the road pricing...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Innovative concepts are necessary and many reforms are underway, for example at the Austrian Federal Railways. Here too, a real trend change is necessary, because we pay 36 billion schillings a year from the federal budget, so that this system only works and drives at all. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is not the time to deal with it sufficiently today, ladies and gentlemen. But let's tell you what economic researchers say about this: The problem of the Austrian railway is a completely missing, market-wide system that has driven the carts so deep into the swamp. In Austria, the railway is a political one. A huge, in fact non-vitaminable saurier protected by strong trade unions and regional politicians and supported by the taxpayer is in the "Jurassic Park", while a new time has long been lost. That's the problem. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Which CVler did that write?]] Your own Director-General Draxler tells you that in Austria, there is a high degree of economic crazy train traffic. A third of the trains pass the market. There are ghosts passing through the area, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These are the problems you've prepared for us. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And you are not yet ready to take a reform course with us on this issue, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Read the latest report by the Economic Research Institute, ladies and gentlemen: ÖBB grants are completely inefficient, experts criticise financing. – This is the problem we have. If you go this way together with us, then you will also find success. But you only insist on old positions. [[Abg. Riepl: Tell us your opinion! Please, a proposal! Please, a proposal!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It is also a question of achieving a liberalisation of rail in this area in order to improve competition. We need a social separation of ÖBB in sales and infrastructure. We need a stronger cooperation and merger of HL-AG with the SchIG and the ÖBB infrastructure. We need a new set-up and an extension of the ÖBB development concept and a re-establishment of the extension of the railways. [[Abg. Eder: What is then? Do you explain to me what it is?]] [[Abg. Riepl: Please make a specific proposal! We need a concrete proposal!]] We must face these challenges, ladies and gentlemen. You haven't been ready for this in the last ten years. This is a reason why we will now take new political paths and successfully implement these concepts in the interests of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10299	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10328	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kukacka's speech proves once again that the sentence of a philosopher who was coined more than 100 years ago: [[Abg. Fink: He understands that!]] "The Being Determines the Consciousness" applies. This change of consciousness of Mr Kukacka is due to his changed being. Secondly, Dear colleague Kukacka! I've been in this house with you for ten years, and your enmity with the railway, the ÖBB and the railways is pathological to make it precise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To be honest, it's not even annoyed for me to listen to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] However, I would like to deal with technology policy today, because the Federal Minister is also responsible for technology policy. We have just received a press release from BMVIT: Council for Research and Technology Development: 1 billion is recommended as a short-term emergency measure. As we know, there has been a Council for some time now, and this Council today has issued this recommendation – perhaps it has already been published yesterday, today at least – that urgent or short-term measures should be taken. Ladies and gentlemen! That means – this is a fact, and everyone here knows it – that the predecessor of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, this segment, had this area of responsibility dragged in a negligent manner. When I come back to colleagues Kukacka in this context, I ask myself: What actually happened this year? What happened positively in this ministry this year? – I note that it was only the same as on a farmer’s market for the two actions of awarding or auctioning UMTS licenses. There were five candidates who have auctioned five licenses – that's what you have to imagine, that's really an operetta – and therefore this blamable result, which has led to billions of failures for this Republic. But this does not matter to the ladies and gentlemen of this Federal Government. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Furthermore, I would just like to cut down on the past privatisation efforts, the Telekom Australia share at a wrong time, as we all know, and this has led to the bad results and the bad yields. The new Federal Minister is known to us from Upper Austria as a very committed and serious worker in her areas of responsibility, I would like to say this clearly here. I therefore have some questions about technology policy to you, Mrs Federal Minister, because I believe that this area is an important field of social responsibility, and we should also provide a very precise framework for this process of technological developments in Austria, so that developments in the way we wish them to take place. However, I would like to see the economic interests that naturally play a significant role in the technology field – it is also good that there is great interest here – not put too much emphasis on. I am thinking specifically of the fact that from a group – however from different companies of the Group – there are two representatives in the eight-member Council for Research and Technology Development, and I am thinking that one of these gentlemen, who is also a member of the Supervisory Board in Seibersdorf, is said to have been present to you in order to install a third managing director in Seibersdorf, in order to further increase the influence of Siemens in this non-university research institute. I think that the approach should not go in this direction. I therefore appeal to you at this point, because I believe that although we should involve our Austrian industry companies in this process, it must not be the other way around, namely that lobbying and lobbying take place here for individual businesses that have better access to the system. My question to It therefore reads as follows: Will you try to keep certain industrial lobbys under control in these bodies? Please make sure that there are not only takeover effects of these industrial companies or of these companies, because it would be a pity for the money. I mean – and appeal to you from this point on – that a great potential for materials, strategies and concepts has been developed in Austria in recent years – I am thinking about the Delphi report, the technology policy concepts of the past federal government, which were also discussed in detail. On a broad parliamentary basis, there has been a discussion process which did not exist in this area before. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to you, also to the government groups, that the state in this field of technology policy must continue to have its role in the future. This liberal economic, thatcherist or Reagan course: The market will regulate this already! will certainly not apply in this segment. It is well known that in this year, after expenditure in the 2000 budget for technology and research policy had fallen, the research rate seems to have already been slightly reduced, and see how effectively public funds have actually been used. We can very well imagine working together with you in the area of increasing the research and development rate. We'll support you here, there's a consensus here. We hope that there will be greater coordination between the Federal Government and the countries in the field of technology policy. Programmes, regionally different needs, will be developed and agreed. What we would like to have – and the Federal Government has failed at the very beginning of its work – is the adjustment of competence, ladies and gentlemen! My colleagues would like to praise you, so I am going to end with my remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10384	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10408	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! I would like to move very briefly into the philanthropies of transport policy, because the speech of colleague Lichtenegger has inspired me crazyly, and I also, as Vienna's representative, take up one thought or another about what you, as a Tyrolean representative, always want to say about Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Lichtenberger!]] For me, it was very interesting that especially in times like these green politicians here demand from the speaker's board of instructions – that's interesting at all – and that instructions are always demanded – I hear this more often, only in public discussion else – if they do not like the way in which a political process is done. Always then, an instruction is all right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Green transport policy essentially consists in giving instructions, obviously, to encourage your political leaders. I do not think it is appropriate and objective that, depending on what position one is in, one demands directions or even wants to abolish the right of direction. I think that you have to set up a line in this area in the political debate. That's very important. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to take up another issue because you need the north-east passage that Vienna needs like a bite of bread – here we have an opinion with the Social Democrats – from this point on. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You didn't understand the irony!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] They have – I also come to the SPÖ – fallen asleep in the development of the past decades in the Eastern Transport Area and do not want to take any action here, as did the then government parties and those in Vienna and Lower Austria who are in power. You slept the fall of the wall and the iron curtain. It is now a fact that you are currently only coming across a bridge between Hainburg and Tulln, and that is the southeast tangent. The Tyrolean transport problem is very serious and should also be dealt with sufficiently, but this transport problem should also be dealt with once. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: With the rail!]] It's not about trying to do everything on the track, because then we'll sleep for the next ten years. They also operate, especially the Greens in Vienna, a double-fielded policy, if you say that the north-east passage should not come, because that would be – and this is the most important argument – the destruction of the National Park. I'll tell you something. This national park, which is essentially a purely label-difference, cannot be destroyed at all, because – as a Tyrolean, you may not know – you will: [[New call for tender Dr. Lichtenberger]] What kind of national park is this when several bridges, including a highway bridge, pass through it? What kind of national park is this when it carries several power plants, a power plant and a thermal power plant in its heart? What kind of national park is this when it houses oil tank camps that have not been disposed of to this day? What kind of national park is this if there are still industrial settlements in its heart? The National Park has a further Danube crossing, and we need it, namely the north-east crossing, so that we can relieve the citizens of it. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: To servus!]] They themselves have tried together with us, unlike some other politicians who come out of this circle, to prevent the B 3 federal road; however, on a different route. It's a pure feeder for the southeast tangent. However, you have mixed this with many self-interests. One can politically represent this or that opinion, which is quite acceptable, but Their Greens in Vienna have cut down the citizens there. They got them a lawyer, and these citizens paid many hundred thousand schillings – the Greens spokesperson at the time: Lawyers Prader – they paid into a fund, and they were precipitated to prevent it. Nothing could be prevented, but the Greens have still suffocated the citizens. – This is not our policy, I tell you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the end, citizens have already learned how the Greens' transport policy works in these areas. That's just to get a few things into the right lot. Now on research policy: Mr Gartlehner, whom I very much appreciate, has spoken a true word here: An emergency measure was necessary to provide a billion schilling. However, this immediate measure has not grown on the dung of this federal government, we know, but it has been the consistent continuation of the missing policy in the field of research. What's going on with this billion? – We also have to say that you still use scientists in various bodies that spend, promise or guarantee more money than they actually have. And in order to allow these to survive politically or economically in these matters, this billion is necessary. You know very well that it is necessary for FWF to cover the needs that are not in themselves available for accounting. It is therefore necessary to make this provision on account of a failure in the past. And that's the "pulsive" emergency measure. I am very happy when Mrs Bundesminister makes this money available because it is one of the last old loads that we are carrying. If you look at research policy, you have to see one thing: It was also this federal government that, in the last budget and also in the next budget, not only planned to cover the research funding funds budgetly, but also financed them. This has not always succeeded in the past, Minister One. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Decided in Rust, for example!]] I can still remember times – and they are not over for a long time – when the various funds have had a little memory-shield in the budget. That's what you defended at the time. These times are simply over with this federal government, you have to see that too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We make budgetary resources available, this can be seen from the budgeting. We agree that it is still supposed to be too little there and there. However, we have also provided for budgetary and financial legislation to cover a substantial part of the financial needs of medium-term budget assumptions by 2003. I would also like to say at this point, in general terms, that on research and technology policy: It is not only the purely forward-looking position of the government budget that is the key to conducting research, but also the economy, the industry, with appropriate impulses, with financial impulses, with ideas, and also with leverage effects, that we need to stimulate the necessary research rate in Austria. I think that this is essentially the secret to the future. I think it is necessary that we talk about research policy as a whole – and the Council will continue to be helpful in this regard – about whether it really only applies to the skilling funds used in the budget or in the financial statements, or whether it is not about using the money efficiently. It was also a failure of the past to look less at efficiency, but more at the use of resources at all. That's where we have to move a lot. We need a policy of economic leverage, the right mix to make an efficient use of the resources so that we can reach the proposed research quota increase respectfully even in 2005. This requires public funding, the budgetary perspective and, ultimately, the participation of the economy and industry, which needs to know where the journey is going through a secure framework. It is important to create critical masses, to strengthen strengths – and not, as in the past, there and there. We also need to get involved in the research of the resorts. That's an essential moment. Nearly all departments carry out research more or less in the widest sense. We also expect impulses from the established bodies in this regard. And I am very confident that if we get all this under control, we can also achieve the plan to raise the research quota to international standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10539	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10571	Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said in his speech that the Greens had cut off the passengers in the framework of the B3 procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's it!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: trashed!]] I am right to say that, although it is true that the Greens, like the freedom opponents, were in this project, there was also a procedure in the context of the attempt to prevent this building, it is wrong that the Greens have shut down. I would like to make that clear once again. There can be no talk of that at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10623	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10656	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Allow me, when I start talking about research and development now, to begin with a little study of conscience and reminiscise the evening yesterday. I would like to thank Mrs Partik-Pablé. She received an order from President Prinzhorn yesterday for the expression "drugs". And Mrs. Partik-Pablé – except for protocol – went with disarming honesty to Mr. Mertel and said that the word "wrong slutter" would not have liked her, but, of course, I would have liked it. – This balled "charme" makes me tremble in the knees. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I'm just glad that the protocol has proved everything right, what I said yesterday. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Now we know exactly!]] It is not specific to Austria that sometimes there is a feeling of beauty between desire and reality. It is obvious, however, that the last months are reminiscing that, even if between promises, statements of intent, vague notions and real tone, gaps are asserted: From now on everything will get better, from now on the milestones of progress!, in the density that you already have to put your ear on the grass to see the growth of progress at all. What was promised? – Already the past government had set itself the ambitious goal of increasing the research rate to a slightly higher than the European average of 2.5 percent by 2005. That was very ambitious. The current government has taken over this. The fact and fact is, however, that, due to the increased gross domestic product and the relatively stagnant budgeting, the research rate in Austria has for the first time been slightly declining for years. The fact is that former Federal Minister Schmid is now investigating his financial situation and the application of his research policy is probably now on the tennis court. The fact is, all experts say: If you want to achieve this 2.5 percent of gross domestic product for research and development, this will require more investment annually – I say – in the amount of a double-digit billion. Now we are talking about 7 billion or 8 billion schilling, and it should be unmistakable for all to understand that this is not a double-digit number. Seven is a single-digit number. The current Minister for Foreign Affairs can do nothing for this, but I would nevertheless like to say: The whole outcome of the final budget negotiations was that three ministries now have this one-digit number. The Oriental "Lovers" Grasser will ultimately decide how this sum is distributed between the three ministries and how it is balanced between basic research and applied research. – This too does not seem suitable for early cheers. Nevertheless: 7 billion are 7 billion, let's not be ungrateful. – I think it should be primarily about increasing the motivation of the Federal Government and expanding its understanding of research. To this end, I would like to mention a few points and some findings of totally unwarranted witnesses – economic researchers and research politicians international importance. First: The fact and indisputable is that Austrian research and development expenditure is below the European average. – That’s already so fad that I don’t want to repeat it again. Secondly, It is internationally recognised that especially small and medium-sized countries are heavily dependent on public funding because the so-called private economy's aggregate capacity in Austria is not suitable – as in many small countries – to provide sufficient third-party funding for the research and development area. Thirdly, Fact and internal Austrian, compared with the international situation, uniquely is that 90 percent of public expenditure by the Republic, says: the federal government, is financed and only almost 10 percent – now you can fight 10 or 12 percent – of the countries. I think there's something to do, too. We are a state – that is clear to me; I do not want to change this either, you do not need to be frightened – but the eternal bowing in front of the countries is not only positive for the Republic – a bold word. Fourth: The private financing share of the economy and industry is below average in Austria, and it is striking that those who are most critical of the current situation of research and development in Austria, especially in the field of industry and industry, even relatively, with few exceptions, make short-term contributions to their progress and competitiveness. Fifth, you open a bottle Felder and Campbell note in their book "Research Funding in Austria" that the biggest shortage in Austria is probably that there is no research-friendly climate and that the mere application of science is often confused with research. And since I ask you to distinguish, in particular in the technology and economic research sector, what research and what mere application is. Not every creation of an ECG device – to speak from my area – is research, but that is applied science. It's not too hard, you can manage to separate. Let me give you an example: Japan was famous for its application-oriented research. There were two years ago on the following: If one neglects basic research over years and finally everything that basic research has revealed to the public, then suddenly a gap arises, and then one faces the fact that one can no longer create, because there is nothing more that can still be applied. Japan has then decided to increase the funding for basic research by 100 percent. – I do not ask you to do that now, because that would be unrealistic, but one should consider how the balance between application-oriented research and basic research can really be controlled rationally. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that it will be your job, Mrs Minister, to link the three ministries dealing with research and technology more closely, to guarantee the balance between basic and application-oriented research, and finally to consider how to produce critical masses in order to set priorities, without putting at risk the necessary diversity, which can also promote creativity. In fact, we are always critical of the Council for Research and Technology, for the reason that the selection procedure appeared to us to be little transparent and we could not believe that something more than a handful of people will show where the path of science will lead and where Austria's strengths and opportunities can lie. I therefore believe that you would be well advised to enter into a dialogue with universities, with non-university research institutions and with industry and industry in order to really get a comprehensive and objective picture of shortcomings and weaknesses, but also of opportunities and strengths. It would be important – it has already been said – to increase the risk of the economy, but in the sense that the economy does not preach to the slender state and, in fact, only understands the following: the nationalisation of the risk in research funding and the privatisation of profits in applied funding. It can't be that way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that research policy must be practicable, and I only cite briefly the FWF, which finances around 90 percent of basic research at universities. The Austrian Research Fund has repeatedly suffered from the fact that, although its basic resources have increased very well in recent years, there is still no comparison in the international field at all, and that around one third of this funding is only promised over the course of the year, mostly only in the last quarter, through budget overrun laws. In principle, this does not allow long-term planning, which insecures project promoters, makes it difficult to set priorities, and therefore we would like Greens to give you the heart and bring an amendment to the budget the following content: [[Quoted print version removed]] At the first moment, this sounds insolent, but by the end of the year, the research fund has almost got these funds. It would be useful if he had this planning certainty at the beginning of the year. – Thank you very much and you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10733	The amendment tabled here is properly signed, properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker is Mrs Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10757	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Forstinger took up her office on a day when Austria was shaken by the cable car accident in Kaprun, and she mastered it with Bravour to act on such a day at the beginning of her term of office. The consequences of this cable car accident will continue to concern us in Austria and the transport budget in the nearer and further future. We are faced with the responsible task of increasing tunnel safety in Austria, providing even more safety, and this federal government will face this challenge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have to say that cable cars are in themselves a very safe means of mass transport. 550 million people a year are transported from 3 178 installations. That is to say, the probability of such an accident is incredibly small and can only be imagined on the basis of the particular tunnel situation. It is particularly important to show all the necessary measures and possibilities for our road and railway tunnels. Now we are currently reviewing the shortcomings and the possibilities of improving safety, but we also need to be careful that the child is not poured out with the bath. I would like to refer to the fact that, in connection with the tunnel safety discussion, there has been more and more talk about how useful it is in today's time to build a railway project, in which mainly underground sections are planned, as is currently the case in the Unterinntal. To this end, I would like to point out that, unlike most of the existing railway lines and most of the newly planned railway lines, there are already accompanying safety tunnels planned for each single long tunnel. I believe that this is absolutely essential for new railway projects in the future. In addition, we have also increased safety standards on the roads away from tunnels, without disproportionate effort. I would particularly like to refer to the need for a motorway exit "Innsbruck-Mitte", which is located in the middle of the retrofitting area of the other motorway exits and detours. In Innsbruck there are currently only three motorway exits for the city: East, West and Crane Bitten – for comparison: Linz has more than twelve – and there is a constant congestion and as a result accidents. The financing of this motorway exit – it has already promised Land and City Innsbruck to contribute funds – would be taken over or pre-financed by Alpenstraßen AG, so I hope that this project can be implemented as soon as possible. The necessary accompanying measures and preparatory steps are already being taken by the city of Innsbruck. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am often sorry if I see how much you are sometimes overwhelmed with the wishes and regional interests. I understand the individual interests of everyone, they are all legitimate, but I think it is important that, at a time of budget consolidation, it is really done according to the criterion: What is most urgent where necessary? In this context, I would like to address a few things that have a little amazement in recent times. We were all able to read a page-long interview with Mr. ÖBB Director-General Draxler, in which he said, among other things, that a railway expansion in the Unterinntal was absolutely unnecessary, because there would still be capacity. I have the answer to the question in question 1262/AB, in which the actual number of trains and capacities, including in the sub-inntal, is addressed. Mrs Bundesminister, I know that these numbers are not generated anywhere in the ministry, but are from the Austrian Federal Railways, namely figures which must be the basis for further transport policy decisions. The answer to this question is that there is a capacity of 289 trains per day in the Unterinntal. What's not here is that on a number of days already 299 trains a day are on this route. This means that there are delays in the fact that there is already a poor quality of operation in the Unterinntal. It is also here – mostly so loosely-floated by the ÖBB – that it is also possible to increase capacity to 360 trains a day in this area. I find this so interesting because there are only two further two-track sections across Austria, on which similar numbers of trains are the case today. This is first on the Vienna–St route. Pölten, where 248 trains are run per day in the section between Neulengbach and Vienna on the basis of shuttle traffic, and that is the second part in the section between Linz and Wels. There are no sections of the same number of trains everywhere in Austria, such as the Unterinntal route and the Linz–Wels and Vienna–St routes. Pölten. These three sections therefore appear to me as the lines to be extended by far, where something needs to be changed. I do not understand the ÖBB argument at all, and I wonder how to allow capacity of 360 trains on a two-track track unless the entire passenger transport is taken out of the operating programme at all. That would be nice, because if this were going everywhere, we would not have to take any more skilling in Austria to expand infrastructure, because then on every two-track route the capacity would be increased without further increase to 360 trains per day. It's not possible! We also have the situation in the Unterinntal that there is still no passenger transport, no cycle traffic. There is no time-limit or official demand by the state of Tyrol for a cycle-trafficking operation, because the ÖBB has said that there is no capacity for this to happen, and there is no passenger transport on the existing two-track route, it is a cycle-trafficking system. There is, of course, also a letter from the head of state of Tyrol, in which he calls for a tact and an extension of local transport. He writes that the country of Tyrol is also ready to order additional regional transport as soon as this enables the existing capacities – because it was always said that it was absolutely hopeless, that could not exist, here it needed expansion. Now, Director-General Draxler says that the capacities are present. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to ask you to speak with the ÖBB a serious word about these unmistakable contradictions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Unfortunately, my speaking time is already over. But I assume that I can refer next time to why there is so much underground tunnel in the Unterinntal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10847	Continued! – Mrs Federal Minister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10869	Mr President. Honourable Members! Estimated staff of my ministry! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for the many speech messages, for your suggestions for further processing and for your supportive comments on the previous processing. After I had the opportunity not too long ago to present my priorities, I allow myself to comment on all the points you have raised. I hope that I will not overlook anything in the keywords, and I would like to start with the following: Liberalization, regulation, regulator and why my first signature must be a directive. I have a lot of work ahead of me, as I have already said in my opening speech, and I also have upcoming decisions to make. I have not made it easy for myself, especially because my predecessor, Federal Minister, Mr Schmid, had a rather procrastinating effect on these decisions in his considerations. It would have been easy for me to delay a decision for another two years. But I have to tell you: From experience in opening up the market in other areas – for example, in the energy sector – I have not found it difficult in my decision to take a first step after considering all the technical criteria, namely the separation of rail and rail infrastructure. I therefore do not find this difficult, because I know that, although this directive was only a matter of regulation, the discussion is going to start, and I can now address all your points that you have raised and oppose all the negative arguments. But I would like to say: The debate is certainly not yet completed, because the question of what it will look like in detail is by far not yet clarified. Returning to the experience in other areas of market opening, I would like to tell you that as far as energy is concerned, it was clear at EU accession that there will be an opening for customers. However, half a year before this regulation actually became a reality, no one has believed it yet. I believe that I have also taken a right step because this means that competition and attractiveness for this medium of transport will be very likely to increase, which is not yet available, and I was very surprised that this is presented as an argument against the rail. I can only bring two quotations from the press here; I'm sure you know her too. Under the heading "ÖBB sees itself as a winner of railway liberalisation" it says: To date, some countries do not want to let in some tracks. Now, there has finally been a comprehensive liberalisation, rail spokesperson Viktoria Kickinger comments on the EU agreement on cross-border rail freight transport. So much about ÖBB. Mr Draxler's detailed statements have certainly been read in detail, but they have certainly not been about the regulation, and he leaves a lot open in a future organization. And that must be the same. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A second point raised: We are not here in the context and in the same sound as Germany or France. It should be suggested that I am not in the EU's perspective and that the EU is well-suited. I can only quote Mrs de Palacio, who is at the moment the Commissioner in the field of transport: Competition for freight transport by rail from 2003: From 2003 onwards, any company which has a licence for rail transport at home should be allowed to carry out cross-border freight transport and have a guarantee to be allowed to use the rail network of all EU Member States under the same conditions as national operators. If we do not prepare soon enough – I have already mentioned the example – I do not think that the debate is going on properly and we will also have the right solution at the right time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The subject of truck toll has already been addressed. The question always came from the first day: Will you keep the schedule? Skill You're imagining that? It was always critical, it was said that we would not make it with the change and also with the confession to a fully electronic system. I must say that my predecessor Michael Schmid did exactly the right thing when he had the full electronic toll tested as a possibility in August. We now know that we can continue to do this, and we will do the same. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is certainly not unknown to you that I have already invited all those who have worked intensively on the subject of toll to bring in their knowledge and help that will really be able to meet the schedule. I also believe that I have to do with people who are personality enough, even if they have been vehemently opposed to the full electronic toll until a week ago, or no matter how long, to bring in all their knowledge and to contribute accordingly to the decision that has now been made – that this is also an equivalent variant. We will set up a working group that will primarily work towards bringing the internal know-how of all those companies that have worked together – and here I mean the subsidiaries, such as ASFINAG and ÖSAG, all those who know a lot – to a table and think about how we form a group with an appropriate international vision so as not to lose time here. I am also convinced that it will succeed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another issue that has been raised: the Semmering Base Tunnel and a joint memorandum by Mayor Häupl, the head of state Stix and the head of state Pröll, which I have received, a memorandum that has been addressed to me over the press, but which is still not on the table. I don't think it's unknown to you either. This project, which has been discussed for a long time and is available for the budget, cannot be compared with a plan outline and declarations of intent. I will therefore convene a traffic summit, where all these positions are also presented by experts, because if this is really such a good alternative for the South Railway, in the so-called Corridor 5, then I will be convinced – especially if much money from the EU can also be used for such a superlative route. - I think that's what this is about. I also do not want to take into account, as you have said, differences in assessment of EIA and nature conservation procedures, once at a road tunnel, once at a railway tunnel. The fact is that we have a ongoing procedure and also have enough time to examine all the alternatives. I have also said publicly that I believe that we have exceeded the time when we consider nature and environmental protection to be procedural delay and not objectively consider it. – So much on this subject. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Allow me to deal with the issues of ecopoints, transit, brennermaut, Unterinntal and Brenner base tunnel together. I think it was you, Mrs Lichtenberger, who spoke of a complaint against a toll. I think you meant the action concerning ecopoints and transit, I assume. Yes, we have brought this action, especially on the basis of my conviction, because I think we must continue to negotiate. I said from the beginning: The question of transit – and this is part of it – is not just a Tyrolean, not just an Austrian, but a European issue. I do not think that the negotiating position is limited if we draw attention to the fact that a regulation does not correspond not only to our interests but also to our efforts. That is why I am absolutely convinced that we have taken the right step in bringing this action. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the Brennermaut and its height are concerned, allow me to say that after all the investigations, representations and statistics – and this is certainly a very critical consideration – only the height will not solve the quantity of transit. But it is a sign that we are taking this sensitive area in Tyrol – and that is it, not only because there is a lot of transit there at present, but also because the topography is a corresponding burden on the population and the environment – seriously, and I will try everything to be able to negotiate and bring about a corresponding height in a credible and comprehensible manner. I do not want to get back once again a toll on the grounds that it is not comprehensible. The credibility – especially with our neighbouring countries – is also important in small points. We shall endeavour to make the same calculation once, in order to present the subject of possible cross-subsidisation, in part, according to the Road Costs Directive, according to the lengths, but the second part will also be to indicate the question of possible cross-subsidisation. During the first talks with my fellow ministers in Munich, I was very pleased that he was very open to this issue, especially when we could commit this height and thus achieve a forced drive towards the rails. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These are my first ideas, which are not taken out of the air, but can certainly be realized in further discussions. As here came the question of ecopoints and control: I can say that it has now become the subject of a private complaint. I'm sure I'm not mixing in here. Like my predecessor, I believe that you can do a lot with a control. The question whether the federal government has the power to ask the country whether it can punish it or not is a formal one for me. I believe that control in every area brings a lot – not only in the field of security, but also in terms of compliance with the formalities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the subject Unterinntal and Brennerbahn. Mrs Hakl, you are also talking about capacities. I have looked very closely at this issue, and this is against statement. In my house there is a study that shows exactly that the current capacity bottlenecks are not in the Unterinntal, but rather at the Brenner. We will, after this is a very important European transit issue, also try to get all possible European support here. I do not mean just the confession of Germany and Italy, how important it is. Confession is also support, from my point of view, is also an appropriate cost participation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Latest information indicates that a maximum of 10 percent of the cost is possible, and if I take account of our current budgetary situation at the same time, I do not need to think about a timetable. But let's see it constructively, and let's consider: If we still assume a planning time of six to eight years, a realization of a 50-kilometre tunnel, and that in view of the current discussion about tunnels, we are at about 20 years with regard to the longest tunnel in the Alps. And that's certainly very "sporty", you'll admit. We need to see the Unterinntaltrasse together with the Brennerbahn Tunnel. Of course, we will continue all planning in the Unterinntal, and we will also do everything we can to ensure that we are not inhibited in the negotiations on the further subject, but we really have to consider what the implementation periods look like. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I now come to a not so strict, but to a very beautiful theme in my area: Research and innovation. I have always referred to it as my favorite during the entry visits of all the institutions. I hope I also have enough time to make it develop accordingly. I should like to reassure Mr Gartlehner: With this billion, where I really insisted that it be released – some of the arguments have already been mentioned today – it cannot be spoken of as a delay. We have decided to set up a research and technological development council which is independent, which should also evaluate all ongoing programmes. It was time – 6th. The next meeting was held on 4 September. December – not possible earlier. I would like to defend my colleagues, Michael Schmid, because that was certainly not an upcoming issue, it was a necessity, and it was also done. I would also like to thank the Research and Development Council for this. My colleague Elisabeth I am of the opinion that this was absolutely necessary. And if you ask me about a third managing director, I am grateful to you for this question. Those who make entry visits to me are likely to be thought about each of the sides of those who see who goes in and out of my home. The fact is that the person you are referring to was certainly not because of a third managing director with me, but because of this position to order, and we agreed on my intention that this is not a topic now, but because of the various fields of competence that it was earlier, and because of the merger that took place, we have to think about the structures for the first time before we deal with the appointment of managing directors. So I think I can really calm you down that this wasn't a theme. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Some points on the issue of support. It has been referred to the allocation of funding and the allocation of funds. I will often have the opportunity to explain my ideas to you on this subject too. In general, I believe that this is in good hands, but not only because I accept decisions made, but also because at the Commission meeting I was able to convince myself that this Council is very well and balanced, especially by those who coordinate and lead. The intentions you all had in common with regard to the institution of this Council were very well understood. The Council will very soon take up its operational business and, as you can see, has already taken the first steps. Other points that are in the process – I have already announced them –: on topic We are working out a comprehensive package of transport safety, and, of course, in agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, the question of control and, on the one hand, the question of why accidents may occur due to possible lack of measures, and the question of the extent to which there are experiences relating to safety, in particular in my area of responsibility. We will soon be able to present a very clearly documented package of measures on road safety. A point that you may still be interested in: the question of safety in tunnels and in the further environment around fate at the Kitzsteinhorn. The international Commission is already working on this. It is composed of experts from Italy, France, Switzerland, Germany and Austria and works in the areas of tunnel safety, cable car technology and fire protection technology. This group has had a very good first meeting, which defines the task area, and it will start its next meeting at the beginning of January – with the involvement of cable car companies; that is very important to me personally. The reason I emphasize this is that I do not want us to judge investment concepts without giving those responsible the opportunity to cooperate. That is why, I believe, this is the right procedure. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With this brief demolition – I hope that I have addressed all your points – I would like to thank you once again for your suggestions and your support, including for your extended hands to support my further work. - Thank you. [[Prolonged condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[17:56]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11086	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I announce that Mr. Dr. Peter Pilznach, § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee on the responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior for the illegal transmission of data from his department. In this context, there is a request made by five Members to hold a debate on this request. Such a desire shall be accepted. The debate and the vote on the request will take place after completion of today's agenda. The next speaker is Mr Edler. The clock is set to 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11122	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to express my appreciation for your material access to Austria's transport policy, but also for the large-scale view. This praise cannot be expressed to the two political spokespersons Kukacka and Firlinger, since their contributions to the Austrian Federal Railways and to the railways were once again politically motivated. There were political attacks on the railways again, as they have been doing for decades. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I didn't say a word to the railways! No syllables!]] You were written in the main book, Mr Kukacka: You attacked the railways and lost your elections every time. Remember that for the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You fantasize! This is called "selective perception" in psychology!]] As far as the ÖBB budget is concerned, I must acknowledge that it is an essential contribution to the discharge of the ÖBB. Nevertheless, the ÖBB has less available for investments by 1 billion Schilling, and that means that thousands of jobs are not only at risk to the railways, but especially in the construction industry, but also in the electrical industry, ladies and gentlemen. You have to say this negatively. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: 6 billion for the infrastructure!]] The fact that the financial resources for public services have not been increased is unfortunate. It is therefore necessary to increase tariffs for transport modes, including public transport. And this is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen: that in your savings packages the taxpayers get the bill for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Despite severe attacks, the ÖBB are on a successful track. You want the red managers to leave the Supervisory Board or the Board of Directors, for which they want blue in, black in. Agreed. Austria will stand up to this. But only you have to justify this: How many million schilling costs taxpayers? I believe that Director-General Draxler, although I am not always of his opinion, has brought the ÖBB to a successful conclusion. The increase in freight performance from 50 million tonnes about six years ago to around 80 million tonnes is, I believe, a very great success. The savings from reforms are not pleasing to me. Since 1992, 17 000 jobs have been saved at the Austrian Federal Railways, without major problems. What business has this been in, ladies and gentlemen? I think it is necessary to thank the railways for their understanding. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wattaul.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe and hope that you will remain in what you have said here or at least in the Committee: that you will carefully address the problems of ÖBB, because it has been shown that those countries, such as the United Kingdom under Margret Thatcher, who have separated, have privatized the biggest problems. They have reported the most serious traffic accidents, the railways there are broken, and the Labour government now has to invest around 400 billion schilling in the infrastructure. [[Abg. Böhacker: "billions"? - No!]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a scandal in a privatisation. This cannot be the privatisation we imagine in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that the ÖBB have prepared well, they have separate infrastructure and sales and are also prepared to compete in terms of liberalisation, the opening up of rail networks. Mrs. Federal Minister! Why do you have problems with that? The ÖBB also wants to enter the German area, they want to go to Italy, and also the Germans, Italians or French will come to us and will be able to drive on the basis of the legal requirements and the existing EU standards. We don't see any problem here at all. In short, Mrs. Federal Minister, something about dealing with the social partners. – I spoke to my trade union, and it is strange, I must say – especially since yesterday the Federal Chancellor said that the government of Schüssel is interested in making the social partners live so high – that until now you have not found a time for an appointment agreement for the railways’ trade union, for the staff representative and for the chairman of the railways’ trade union. I believe that this will be urgently necessary for both sides, because the railways are interested in really working on matters as well. But you have to be able to have a conversation. I think that must be possible on time. Only a short while to the secondary railways, which have not been addressed today. A problem that arises on us, but especially on you, Mrs. Federal Minister: 1 700 kilometers of trams are at risk! I hope that we will come up with a common solution in order to ensure that these runways can be maintained because they are so important to the commuters, to the regions. Ladies and gentlemen! If we don't want shareholders in the future to run the railway that ÖBB, but continue to be people for people, then it will be a good citizen's run. And for that, we will stand up for social democrats! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11226	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11247	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Traffic is the pulse vein of every society. Transport is ÖBB the same as the road. And I really have to tell you something, colleague Edler: If you were to let go of the Federal Railways from the socialist overclamping and really put economic criteria in the foreground, then the Federal Railways to which I really call myself would be different. I'm telling you, there's a lot of good people in the Federal Railways, but if the union buys, that can't be anything. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You really have to put the economic criteria in the foreground there and not argue party-politically. I can't. I would like to say that to you, Mr Edler – on all matters! Public transport: Mrs. Lichtenberger, you say you're against the road. Please, do you know how much public transport is going on the street? Do you know how many buses there are? You just say you don't want a road anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No motorway!]] The fact is: One track, 150 tons heavy, transports 40 to 80 people. - That doesn't have to be! These persons can be transported by a regular bus with a weight of 10 tonnes. We don't need to do that, what do I know about heavy 150-ton trains with personnel. It's on a bus, too. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We don't want new motorways!]] For example, forest district where the population is not so close [[Vivid cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] You're not going to let trains drive there alone for passenger transport, are you? There is no industry there, no transport of any goods – there you have to take buses, and for that you need the road! [[Abg. Brosz: But no highways!]] So you can't bet against the road all the time. It doesn't work.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11318	Mr Wattaul, you spoke of the population densely, didn't you? - Yes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11337	Good. I'm correcting: Where there is little population. - Excuse me. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] What I want to say is: I don't think it's the right way to divide the track and the road. Both modes of transport have their right. The rail will have so many tasks to deal with in the future that it will have to work with the road. We will be faced with a much stronger volume of transport through the enlargement of the East and therefore certainly have enough work for everyone, for road and rail. It has every instrument's permissions – that's how you have to see it. For road pricing, I would just like to say the following: Whether you're talking about 2 S or 4 S today, the consumer will eventually pay. It is not the case that the transport operator pays the kilometre price, but it is finally placed on the product. And who's gonna pay for that? It can only be the consumer, the taxpayer says. You have to say that. [[Abg. Brosz: And who pays for the highways?]] - Also the consumer. It will always have to pay the consumer. It is true that the taxpayer must also subsidise local transport. That's right. Finally, the taxpayer always pays. I would also like to say something to the driving schools because there is an broadcast from the SPÖ. It is true that the fact that the driving schools carry out tests only in the district is an abuse. This should be changed so that a competition between schools can really lead to them becoming cheaper. I think that's in the ministry. By Mrs Kuntzl, I have also written down a few words: "Whoever's bragging, let's sheet it." [[Lively cheerfulness.]] I don't think that's the right way. – I didn't say that. "Whoever brumbles is supposed to brag" – that is the policy of the socialists. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who said that?]] Who said that? – Ms Kuntzl. Look at this! [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date.]] [[Newly lively cheerfulness with the greens.]] If the policy is when transport policy is, I do not know what policy is.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11417	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11447	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen from the Most Quarter! I am quite clear that as a Mostviertler, Mr Wattaul, you have some doubts about the density of the forest-fourths. [[Lively cheerfulness.]] I can But calm down: I also travel through the forest area more often, and I really haven't met a "untight" forest vier. [[Sociability and consolation with the Greens and the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] What is hidden there – so to speak – is really public transport. Be it buses, whether it's railways – there's no connections, there's no cycle schedules. In this respect, we need to do something. This is primarily a national task, but it also flows federal money into the forest district. [[Abg. Neudeck: Too little traffic!]] Now, if one moves from the forest district to the most part in the comparatively narrow public transport system, one meets at a intersection of the ÖBB, which is called St. Peter in the Au. You take a seat in St. Peter in the Au, but you read first! There is a nice sign there above the ticket switch: "Opens every first Monday in the month." – Please, every first Monday a month you can buy tickets there! – And right next door in the waiting room there is a sign: "The approved stay in this waiting room is only allowed with a valid ticket." [[Lively cheerfulness.]] Come now So you can't buy a ticket there, if you stick to the signs of the ÖBB, you can't even take a seat in the waiting room, and you're on a platform that may have a flat roof. – This is the situation of ÖV users in Lower Austria between Waldviertel and Mostviertel. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Forstinger.]] Mrs. Minister! I have just described this to you as an example – this is a life-like example; I have experienced it myself – so that You can learn a little about the ambience of a normal mortal or a normal mortal without a car. It is the structure of a financial system that has many miscontrols in the field of public transport, where you really need to put the lever on. Take a look at the study by Professor Schönbäck. She's been resting in the drawers since climate minister. Take a look at the eight options for miscontrol and clean up! Clear the checkouts and change them! It must be concentrated so that the system as a whole gets closer. - On the one hand. But now I can also tell you another example, from Burgenland. Once you go to Burgenland, you will meet one – probably soon it will be so far – 100 meters high senden masts in the middle of the nature reserve. They inquire and hear: Yes, this is possible, because this transmission mast serves to maintain a radio system for telecommunications in the sense of vehicle location. Vehicle location – you have to imagine that! In the middle of the nature reserve, 100 meters high. It is argued that it is of public interest that vehicles are located there. Check if perhaps the Gendarmerie, perhaps the police or the Red Cross need these masts because of this vehicle location system! - No, they don't need him, they don't need him at all. So you really wonder why the public interest in the location of vehicles has won against the public interest in nature conservation, if you can at most see the meaning of this mast in the fact that vehicles that have been stolen in Austria and moved to Hungary are located. What are you doing? Please, this is also a real situation, not far from here, in Burgenland, in the area of your activity. Now I come to a more serious point. Go to the House of Telekom Control in the Mariahilfer Straße in Vienna. At the beginning of October there was an information event for UMTS broadcasting frequency auctions. Speaking You there with Director Otruba, and he will tell you: Yes, we have designed the writing out arrangements in such a way that the buyers, the operators of these frequencies – who applied for these frequencies in the auction at the beginning of November for these frequencies and won them or, so to speak, increased them – are obliged to open up to 50 percent of Austria within a certain period of time – 2004. So they have to ensure that within this 50 percent range in Austria, reception on UMTS frequency is possible. If you leave this building where you have been notified of this 50 percent supply and then read the government program, you will discover: The purpose of this modern technology is, so to speak, the accessibility and supply of peripheral areas, border regions, areas which have so far been economically disadvantaged. This is a challenge in technology policy. But how do you - apologise, your predecessor - make the call, then practically carried out by Dr. Otruba? How do you make the calls? 50 percent in relation to the agglomerations. - Please, this is Ural technology policy. That's where you have to intervene. There's something you need to change. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Coming to the end: Point of reference ÖBB. Here you will change. This is about the appointment of a new board of directors. Mr. Director-General Draxler is most likely sent to the desert – he is looking forward to reading in the press in some respects – he is of the wrong color and is now being restructured. I am curious whether management criteria will take place when the new Board of Directors is recruited and implemented, or whether, because of the fact that you have to rely on a majority in this House, and the majority is known to be blue-black, a blue-black board of directors will also be included in the ÖBB. That's what I'm curious about! And I'm also curious about the consequences. Will you then let the Taurus locomotives, which are now beautifully reddished, also pass through Europe in a coloration between blue and black? [[Intervocations with the Greens and the Freemans.]] There will be a sample of nails between the management claims you make, and very concrete decisions of a personal policy nature. I'm very curious about it. Now it's really coming to the conclusion: Mrs Minister, I am grateful for your comments on the detailed problems that you gave us. These statements are clearly evidence of one – as one should say – not exactly the one who was in charge, but still tried to approach it. However, what I have missed – and I am curious if you will tell us – is a contour and a clear outline of your transport policy philosophy, your transport policy value. I haven't heard about that yet. There you are for me an unwritten leaf, tabula rasa. I would have liked to see from you a beautiful table covered with transport policy values and policy decisions. That would really interest me. Maybe it's still going on today, maybe it's still here in this house today, or maybe next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11533	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11562	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The conditions on Austria's roads are bad enough even without the traffic blockages arranged by the opposition. In particular, reports of accidents in the construction site area on the motorways have been piled up recently. Most of us are daily witnesses of the more than unfortunate state of our roads, which leads me to believe that more investment is needed here. I believe that it is our duty, particularly in the light of the future enlargement of the European Union, to ensure that the existing infrastructure is maintained and further expanded. A functioning economy requires intact traffic routes. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of an EU enlargement, traffic volumes in Austria will increase by a multiple rate as a logical consequence of increased transit and passenger traffic. At the latest, it is inconceivable that the West motorway is a permanent construction site. That is why, as has been so often said – and not only with you, Mrs Federal Minister, but also with your predecessors – I demand that as a logical consequence of the already expected traffic infarction, the continuous six-track expansion of the West motorway will finally move forward. And I also call for better construction site management in this context. An intact transport structure is a prerequisite for a functioning Austrian and therefore European economic area, and it is therefore in our best interest to advance this project. Unfortunately, an increasingly neglected point, which is very much in my heart personally, is the area that is particularly important for tourism, but also for people and the environment. That is why I hope that the future budgets will provide more resources for this important area. As the mayor of the community of Traunkirchen, I am looking for you, Mrs. Federal Minister – as I have already done with your predecessors – that the localisation of Traunkirchen is realized as soon as possible to ensure that funding is provided. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: (absolutely giving) For this I am also!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The slogan "rail instead of traffic blinds" is probably known to all of us. However, it is surprising that the Red Transport Ministers have been doing so little to implement effective measures in this area for so long. And one thing I'll say in advance: We both need it! We need the best possible road connections, and we need the best possible rail connections. Both areas are to be equally developed and adapted to the needs. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Full employment – but not making a new debt – is necessary in order to maintain the competitiveness of Austria's economic location in the long term, and this is inevitable for measures to expand infrastructure. The necessary financial resources for maintaining and expanding the high-level road network are to be ensured in the long term by installing a modern, effective and cost-effective road pricing model for trucks. The decision to acquire the system will be made by you, Mrs Federal Minister, over the next few months. Finally, I wish you and all of us – and above all you, Mrs Bundesminister, in the management of your large and difficult department – much success, because that would be best for our citizens. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Merry Christmas!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11633	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11655	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on Mr Kukacka's speech; although he is not in the house, it will certainly be addressed to him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] This speech would not even have fit into a tent of the Urfahran fair, let alone here in this house. He does so, so whether the ÖVP would have been in opposition for 30 years and had never had a word to say! In addition, he has – I have been careful! – did not make any proposal in his speech to improve infrastructure measures or transport systems. So not a concept, but just get rid of it! I do not think that the new Federal Minister has deserved it either. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have taken over a very important place, and you have excellent employees in your resort. I think that if we leave out the party political component on various transport issues, then it would be necessary to create real constructive measures to improve the system. The traffic addicts are growing – unfortunately, it is. A Europe-wide survey has even shown that the number of passenger cars will increase even more in Austria than in the European average. In 1998, there were 1 000 inhabitants of 480 passenger cars in Austria. As early as 2010, 600 cars will come to 1,000 inhabitants. However, rising is not only the number of cars, but also the number of kilometres driven. That means that more and more cars are moving on the streets. Therefore, in order to maintain transport, the transport routes need to be expanded, with the need for both the expansion of rail capacity and the development of need-based roads. I'm just wondering how you're going to deal with this budget. That's the big question! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Binder, will report in detail on the number of accidents and the accident. But the following is clear: There is a slight increase in hope this year, because the number of fatalities compared to the previous year is currently about 100 years below the value of the previous year. But it must be our goal to reduce this number of accidents by at least 50 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The goal must be a 100 percent reduction!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! We really need to work hard to find reasonable measures. I do not think any of the proposals made by your predecessor, Mr Schmid, who said that the penalties should be an existential threat, or that the level of penalties should be staggered according to the list price of the vehicles. This is a purely off-zook mentality without touching on the real problem. Transport safety depends more on consistent monitoring than on increased penalties. There are plenty of ways to get Rowdies off the roads in the Motor Driving Act, so we need neither new laws nor higher penalties. The executive is intended to control vehemently at actual hazards and also to apply existing laws. Mrs. Federal Minister! A very important aspect is the driving licence. It has been mentioned briefly today: The driver's license usually costs more than a month's wage: in Vienna up to 17 500 S, in Carinthia a little more, 18 700 S, and in Salzburg to the 20 000 S. I think there would be more competition. Get out of here with the territorial protection! The so-called deregulation campaign seems to have passed completely out of the driver's license law. It would also be important for the free choice of driving schools and for effective monitoring of the obligation to award prices. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The objective must be: A driver's licence may not cost more than EUR 1 000. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you take measures in this regard, we will be happy to support you. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'll finish. I too believe that not only should we demand new things, such as the development of roads and so on, although that is also important, but I also believe that we must take measures to make optimum use of existing transport infrastructure facilities. I am already very excited how you will answer me to a parliamentary question that I have put, regarding the "Green Arrow". The "Green Arrow", which is mentioned very briefly, allows you to turn right even in the case of red traffic lights. This is already common in many countries; in Germany too, this is becoming more and more evident. There is an interesting study by the Federal Office for Road Development. It shows that the accident does not increase. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you not to reject our proposal from the outset because it is coming from our side. Let's get together. Let's talk about it. Perhaps there is also a reasonable solution for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11746	The next speaker is Mrs Schottel-Delacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11767	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Transport has recently faced many challenges and pressures. In addition to a number of transport policy issues, such as the issue of the Brenner toll or the transit contract problem, your resort unfortunately faced a number of tragic traffic accidents, terrible tunnel tragedies and the recent, horrendous accident in Kaprun. I think it is also appropriate, in the course of a budget debate, to express our recognition to the staff members of your department for their use under the greatest physical and psychological burden! [[In the case of the liberals, the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We are aware that the financial equipment of the transport resort can never really be sufficient. Nevertheless, significant improvements will be achieved in key areas such as public transport and transport safety. In the next few years, around 3 billion schilling will also be available for infrastructure improvements in the framework of the technology offensive. All of these are positive approaches at national level, but this should not deceive us of the real transport policy challenges of the next few years and decades. In order to meet these challenges, we urgently need to force these measures at both national and European level. No matter what forecasts from the various institutes about transport traffic in the next few years one believes that freight traffic will at least double by 2010. [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's too little!]] – Double at least! Until the 1970s, the rail was still the dominant mode of transport, and today about two thirds of freight traffic is on the road and one third is on the rail. However, since the shift from road to rail is now a recognised European transport policy objective, it is at European level, but also at the national levels of the highest political need for action. This imbalance between rail and road modes could only arise because road freight transport is exposed to free competition and therefore must act more efficiently and with a better cost-performance ratio, whereas rail freight transport is not subject to real competition, but is still highly politically oriented and sets above all national priorities. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Muted]] New transport concepts should therefore also allow competition in rail transport by further opening and deregulating rail networks so as to provide third parties with more equal access to the rail network. Only several providers of rail transport services create competition, and only competition will lead to an efficiency increase without which rail freight transport will not be viable in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Such measures will allow the rail to become a real attractive alternative to the road again, and we all want to do so in order to restore a balance between the two modes of transport. The liberalisation of rail is expected to require an urgent boost in innovation in the handling and distribution terminals, which is a prerequisite for the necessary efficiency improvement. The rapid and smooth handling in central handling and distribution centres and the removal of obstacles to border crossings can make up for some disadvantages compared to the road. Roadside, harmonisation of transport-related taxes and working conditions – keyword: EU uniform driving licence – in the near future, gain the same importance as the production of cost reliability for all modes of transport. On the other hand, Draconic measures which try to limit road traffic by means of excess bans and bans or higher taxes are not appropriate. This would only restore artificial barriers to trade which would destroy the benefits and competitiveness of a European internal market. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The transport industry is in a dramatic turnaround. Much will be done at European level. Austria will have to strongly position itself there in order not to miss the train or run the risk of being overrun. I am convinced that you will represent a strong position for Austria there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11833	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11862	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I miss Mr Haigermoser as a caller. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Here!]] - Come on, a little biterl! [[Abg. Haigermoser: No, I won't let you buy anything!]] - Isn't it? Shame! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are now dealing with the chapter "Research and Technology". I have already talked about the chapter "Agriculture" today, but unfortunately for only five minutes, so I could not devote myself to the issue of "BSE", although it has been clearly stated from a liberal point of view that Mr. Ex-Minister is one of the culprits. Mrs. Minister! I now come to talk about it because I already see a very strong link to research. In this discussion it became clear to me that, in truth, we know far too little about the disease ourselves, that in truth it is not sure what kind of pathogen that is and how it is transmitted. He's just there. On the one hand, there is a high demand for research, and therefore very quickly resources would be made available for it. On the other hand, on the other hand, we have to address the problem of waste management – and I am therefore in the field of environmental protection. In Austria, we have to process about 330 000 tonnes of carcasses a year – currently mainly for animal meal. This leaves about a third, which then divides into mainly animal flour and also animal fats. I also recognize that we no longer feed the animal meal, but we have to do something with it. We cannot bury it, for example, because we will soon be banned from depositing; nor would anyone bury it. I also think it's not that easy to burn it right away, except maybe in domestic waste-incinerators. The capacity is not sufficient for this. I think we should find intelligent opportunities. For example, we could make biodiesel out of fats, but that would have to be possible somehow. It is well known that I am a champion of biodiesel, especially if there is a corresponding cost-benefit account and an eco-balance sheet, which Mr Molterer would like to make. If I am already in these suggestions, I would like to suggest that the ÖBIG, the Federal Environment Agency, the Academy of Sciences and Special Research Institutes should start working on this project and, at the same time, try to develop new technologies together with the industry for how we can work out these residues. I would also like to clarify something because, as I believe, Mr Schwemlein has been misunderstandingd by some speakers today. Mr Schwemmlein said very correctly that, of course, agriculture – not necessarily Austrian agriculture – has a large share of the current problems with BSE, especially the agricultural factories. Ladies and gentlemen! Because I'm wearing the black-sheep tie today, I'd like to say: [[The speaker points to his tie, on which numerous black sheep, including a white one, can be seen in the red background]] It is not that one can simply pretend as if the Austrian farmer is always just a good one. Brave isn't everywhere! I'm in front of me, Mr. Zweytick. He's certainly a braver, a white sheep under some black ones. But we must not forget that there was even Glykol, which we all drank! And there are hormone sales on the highway in Upper Austria – which is stated in the newspaper – and there are illegal fertilizer imports. Someone has to do that too! If it is not the farmers, I ask myself: Who else? Or: In many regions, for example, we have too much nitrate in groundwater. For example, a speaker explained that we had great drinking water everywhere. That's not quite right! We have problems with groundwater, this must also have a cause, and we will be able to talk about it objectively! – This is how I understood Mr Schwemlein’s statement. It's already flashing the lamp again. – I would like to point out the following, Mrs Federal Minister: I think it is fair, for example, that your colleague, in a radio report, said that 1990 was enforced under Federal Minister Ettl – at the time we were the only of the current EU countries with such a ban – that no animal meal should be fed on cattle. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] So the red ministers weren't that bad either, even if they're supposed to be one of all the blames you're blaming us for. Mrs. Minister! Finally, please. I made a call for the "FOPs", "Friends of Prinzhorn". I'm asking you not to kneel before this one. To the colleague who spoke in front of me: Your husband is in the Supervisory Board at ÖBB, and I believe that this is a smooth incompatibility! But if you do that already, you put a competitor in the Supervisory Board, then, after he has proven himself very competent and as a friend of the ÖBB, perhaps you could also send colleagues Wattaul to this Supervisory Board. I'd encourage that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11937	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11959	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget on research and innovation shows how important this area is for the Federal Government. In particular, this importance will be underlined by the promise to invest 7 billion schilling in this area over the next three years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is to say, the Federal Government has recognized the signs of the time and knows how important this area is for the Austrian site, especially so that we become the technology location in Europe. The location policy is characterised by three pillars: economy, research and education. It is only through these three-pillar policies that we can also have healthy businesses in Austria and provide for future jobs. We in Lower Austria follow the same course. This is why we started a technology offensive in Lower Austria a few months ago. As part of this technology offensive, we have created the position of our own technology officer. It is no lower than the former astronaut Dipl.-Ing. Franz Viebeböck, who works in the management of the company Boeing and now uses his international contacts for Lower Austria and tries to use international cooperation in the research and development area for Lower Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can only point to the latest success. In September, a cooperation agreement was signed between Stanford University and Lower Austria. That is, we are fully aware that this transfer of knowledge is crucial for our future and for our further progress in the field of technology. A further step next to the introduction of a technology officer is that we have installed our own technology site in the state of Lower Austria. A new technology concept is being developed within the framework of this technology department – together with experts from the fields of science, research and business. However, I am firmly convinced that this new technology concept will in all cases also be a further development of cluster education, the competence networks, and a further development of the technology centres already under way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have set ourselves a very, very high goal. We have made it our goal to increase the research rate to 2.5 percent of GDP – a very high target, which requires all our efforts. I believe that it will also be important in this context to bring our Austrian leaders back to the country from the fields of research and development. We know that many have become so-called research tourists, who have had to march into the world, because in Austria we simply had too little employment for qualified researchers and scientists. Now, I believe, it must be our task to bring one or another back to Austria and to use it for us in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, it is in close connection with this that we see comprehensive international research projects, which we also need to get to Austria. A great opportunity for Austria is the project "Austron", in which we could certainly set a milestone in the field of international research and for the location Austria. I can say at this point that the location of Niederösterreich would be particularly suitable as a location, in particular Wiener Neustadt due to the proximity to the research center Seibersdorf. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So you see, only with such concepts, with such strategies we will succeed in becoming the technology location. I can wish the new Minister for Foreign Affairs for her task all the best and good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12040	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12061	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! As one of your main areas of work, you have called transport safety. I very much welcome this, and we will also support you in this regard. I think it is absolutely necessary to establish a national road safety programme based above all on sound data and scientific knowledge. Why is this so important and necessary? . I would like to give you some information and figures of the year 1999. An accident statistics of the Transport Safety Board shows: Nearly two thirds of all accidents involving personal injury occur in the area. Around 60 percent of all injured people are registered in the local area. Above all, the weakest road users, namely pedestrians and cyclists, are often the sufferers. 30 percent of all injured and 25 percent of all road traffic deaths belong to the age group of 15 to 24 years. Compared to the share of 12 percent in the Austrian population, the increased risk of accident in this age group will be clearly identified. In the group of pedestrians, children as well as older people are particularly vulnerable. In 1999, a total of 4 323 children in road transport, including 611 in school, failed. 37 children were killed. With the independent entry into the traffic as a school child, the number of children suffering from accidents reaches in the 6th century. ==References====External links==* Official website This rate will continue to rise with the entry as a cyclist into the traffic situation. On the subject of disco accidents. A total of 423 accidents were classified as disco accidents in 1999 and 45 people were killed on the journey to or from a disco. For example, in public transport, the establishment of night buses is essential. For comparison of the transport risk: If the number of accidents in road traffic is compared to the number of road passengers, the transport risk for road transport is clearly higher than for rail passengers. When considering the results obtained, it is noted that Austria is poorly cut off in virtually all comparisons and can almost always be found in the unmistakable peak field. For example, the average accident risk of the population in Austria, with approximately 4,900 accidents per 1 million inhabitants, is much higher than in almost all other European countries. I think these facts and data speak a clear language. The sources of danger and causes of accidents are diverse and extensive. It is therefore also necessary to introduce a traffic statistics accident law to correctly record personal and property damage in the event of road accidents. In my opinion, only in this way can positive changes be made quickly and efficiently for all road users. Therefore, fast reacting is in demand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two other topics that seem to me to be important: On the one hand, in the sense of equal treatment for all Austrians, uniform standards are necessary in the field of traffic psychological studies. These are uniformly defined, because at present there are different handlings, and that is, I think, no serious basis. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the study by the Board of Directors for Transport Safety on behalf of the Chamber of Labour, whose key statements are: first of all: Cars and trucks are the biggest cause of accidents, and secondly: The removal of the working path with so-called public is most safe. These findings can be seen in connection with the situation of the donors. I would also like to point out the planned increase in railway tariffs. ==References== January 2001 threatens another burden, especially for the commuters. In order to avoid this, I would like to point out the amendment that my colleague Heinisch-Hosek is going to bring in. This application sets out the requirement for the increase of public service resources in order to prevent price increases. I mean, that would be more than just – in the sense of security, in the sense of human beings and also in the sense of the environment!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12122	The next speaker is Mr Sodian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12143	Mr President. Mrs Verkehrsminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the owner of a company in the construction sector, which is concerned with the renovation of bridges, I am particularly pleased with the budget figures for 2001 because these figures are expected to increase by a few billion Schilling in the area of federal roads A and B. Ladies and gentlemen! This means a greater number of orders, a greater number of employees, a smaller number of unemployed people, and a less expenditure by the State. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The streets pay the National Bank!]] The Austrian economy will contribute approximately 31 billion schilling in 2001 to the reorganisation of the budget. This sum comes on the one hand from levies from companies' funds and on the other from increases in contributions and taxes. This is a huge contribution by the economy to the consolidation of this budget. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As much as never, ladies and gentlemen, the economy is doing in this area, but once again the left half of the empire sees this completely different. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Third!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's enough!]] You, ladies and gentlemen, want to put even more pressure on the economy. Mrs Mertel, it is! They demand further burdens on the economy. I would like to demonstrate to you how inappropriate your arguments are, by example my own balance sheet of one of my companies. [[Abg. Brosz: One of your companies?]] Starting point are 50 million Schilling revenues, a wage sum of 8.5 million Schilling. I expect you to see how much these changes cost the economy or bring it to you. I am saving 138 621 S because of the loss of the compensation by the regional hospital register, but I lose 247 120 S. The reduction in health insurance by 0.3 percent brings me 18 467 S, but the costs of harmonizing the rights of workers to those of employees amount to 45 000 S. The loss of IFB, which is decided, costs my company 767 000 S. The motor-related insurance tax costs me 35 018 S, and the extra cost of the vignettes is 13 950 S. This will result in an additional cost of 1 108 000 s, ladies and gentlemen. If I count on the increase in diesel prices, which has increased from 5.80 s to 9 s, then another 1.6 million shillings will be added. This means a total load of 2 708 088 S more in one year. Ladies and gentlemen! These are facts. These are the true numbers. 2.7 million schilling of loads without being able to achieve a higher price on the free market. And what are you doing? – They call for a stronger burden on the economy by 7.5 billion in 2001, 15 billion in 2002 and 30 billion in 2003. And only this, ladies and gentlemen, would lead to a budget of horrors! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's it!]] These are the facts, Mrs Colleague. You demand in your old age More burdens for the entrepreneurs, for the landlords and for the large farmers – especially for the economy. That's it! That's what you're demanding. A brief comment on the foundations. – Her ex-Finance Minister Lacina already realized in 1993 that a new foundation law allows you to bring hundreds of billions of dollars into the country or keep them in the country. Now that the Foundations are under taxed, it is just too grotesque. This Federal Government is acting promptly and sets up exactly where tax discrepancies have been tolerated or overlooked by you in the area of the foundation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am too democratic to recommend to you, ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire, that you continue to dream so that you can no longer do more harm, but I appeal to you: [[Abg. Haigermoser: Reichsdrittel!]] Stop your demands that can only harm the economy and become a responsible opposition party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12271	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12304	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going to talk about the big owners, because they're not my concern. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I have not been able to see a specific breakdown between the various areas by the fragmentation of your department in the budget. The division of competences leads to a total uncertainty in the financing of individual projects and programmes. A Council was set up by its predecessor, which is responsible for reviewing the projects, and a first approach is to be adopted in March 2001. I am curious about which criteria will then be met from your side. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since I work in a production plant where all the products that are produced are also developed, I know how important it is to get financial support for research and development, so that you have the chance to remain competitive. Mrs. Federal Minister! The planned sale of Austrian companies, of course, weakens Austria's location, and this also leads to losses of value added and employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In all these sales of well-functioning establishments, it must be noted that it was primarily the nationalized establishments that trained a certain number of apprentices. Recently, one hears from the economy again and again that there are no professionals. But where are they to come from when no one is willing to train apprentices? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That's it!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Even Minister of Finance Grasser admits in a press release that the expected revenue from the Telekom shares did not bring the desired success, namely that instead of the expected share price of 11 to 15 euros per share, only 9 euros were achieved. It can be derived from this that the same will happen when tobacco Austria is planned to sell. Since, Mrs. Federal Minister, you would have the opportunity to prevent this. The departure of important corporate agencies abroad naturally leads to the loss of jobs. A total of 1 100 jobs in tobacco Austria are at risk of full privatisation. This involves more than 500 different companies located in Austria in the production and services sector, where tobacco Austria indirectly contributes to value-added. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] It would be important that 25 percent plus a share remain in Austrian ownership. Even Minister of Finance Grasser has already found that he too will face a loss of revenue of 22 billion schilling annually, around 21 billion schilling from the tobacco tax and a billion schilling of corporate taxes. Mrs. Federal Minister! Studies also show that with the sale of companies to foreign countries there is a risk that important business parts such as top management, planning departments, research and development facilities and high-quality manufacturing operations will migrate to the new headquarters abroad. With this sale of Gustopückerln to the "Verein der Freunde von Prinzhorn" only short-term profits are connected, in the longer term the economic location of Austria is totally weakened. Mrs. Federal Minister! It will also be clear to you that family silver can only be sold once, but deterioration in all areas would be the result. In connection with Telekom Austria, we are now looking for the debtors because the financial success has not been achieved. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, are still very young and still in office for a short time, you now have the opportunity to make sure that Austria's tobacco remains 25 percent plus a share in Austrian property – and that's why I'm looking for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12368	The next speaker was Mr Kurzbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12390	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on the four-track extension of the Westbahn in the St. Pölten-Vienna section. As early as 1989, this section of the line was declared a high performance line by the Federal Government regulation, and in 1990 the planning was transferred to HL-AG. Between 1990 and 1994, the race route selection process and the route fixing were carried out. As a result, the EIA procedure was initiated, and last year the route regulation was finally adopted by the Minister of Transport. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, it was in October, the railway construction permit procedure for the Vienna Forest section was initiated. This procedure will also be concluded shortly. What is missing for the actual start of construction? – Finally, the transmission regulation is missing, which is the prerequisite for the construction to begin. The cost of this section is around 15 billion schilling. Financing is provided through the rail infrastructure financing company, with a framework of 143 billion schilling. This framework of 143 billion Schilling has already been exhausted by the transfer regulations already adopted, which is why, Mrs Bundesminister, decisions are now being taken, first of all, whether there are new forms of funding, and secondly, whether a new priority series of the transfer regulations already adopted is being recast. As we have already heard, the capacity of the existing West Railway is fully exhausted and in particular does not allow maximum speeds in the Altlengbach-Eichgraben section. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am now looking for the right decision on the part of the Ministry of Transport to be made in order to ensure a speedy expansion of the West Railway between St. Pölten and Vienna are not in the way.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12432	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12468	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The budgetary policy of the rights and conservatives in this country is carried by three pillars. The first pillar is the scrapping, whichever one can only scrape, especially the workers, with about 47.8 billion schilling. [[Abg. May. Trattner: This number is wrong!]] The second pillar is the redistribution, from the weaker in this Republic to those who have enough, especially to the employers who will benefit from the overall package in about 3 billion schilling. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You can't rely on the Edellinger numbers!]] In this respect, the previous speaker, with his claims, is wrong. The third pillar, ladies and gentlemen, is the destruction of popular wealth, of everything that is not non- and nailproof in the Republic. An example of this is Deutsche Telekom's privatisation. That's where you took your "master's exam." For 25 percent of the shares, the Italian Telekom at the time paid in about 27 billion Schilling, with the stock exchange reaching 29.8 percent of the assets, the shares totaling 11 billion Schilling net. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: With this you prove that you have no idea of anything!]] So if that wasn't a flop, if it doesn't show that there was dilettantism, then I don't know, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second example is the UMTS auction. Can we do this even more patcher than Mr Schmid did? In March everything was fixed and finished, he said after taking office, he will do it in June. It came in September, in November it finally happened, but of course the train had already left. As a result, only more than 15 percent of what English and Germans were able to do was successful – 11 billion schilling, 15 percent compared to all the other countries. If one had done so in good time, just as it had been planned, if Minister Schmid had acted, then it would have been available to do so now. [[Abg. May. Trattner: How much did Switzerland solve?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You're just thinking about equity gains!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I am also concerned about the regional importance of this UMTS invitation to tender. It turned out that the call for tender – and this is really all kinds of – meant that only a 50 % and no UMTS comprehensive supply had to be guaranteed. They create a two-class society. Because people in remote regions may not have access to these modern technologies, you create second-class citizens. Mrs Bundesminister, in your new office, which is certainly not easy, you are required to take measures so that the four or six licensees do not forget these remote regions and also offer them access to these new opportunities. To conclude: Regional policy is also important, and above all the railway infrastructure. It's in danger now. In Lower Austria, almost all secondary railways, narrow railways are at real risk, are massively threatened by the closure. I call on you, Mrs Bundesminister, to speedily advance the tendering of the routes returned by the ÖBB, that this is happening immediately because there is a danger here because the routes no longer have the necessary durability, because in addition the rolling material is scrapped and customers are also lost and transferred to the passenger car. [[Abg. Zweytick: What has the ÖBB done all the time? Crowds!]] Therefore, Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to support her with 6 000 signatures collected by the Waldfourtlers for the preservation of the Waldviertler Schmalpurbahnen. Take those to heart, act in such a way that it is possible that these already existing railways can continue to be operated in the future, for the benefit of the environment and also for the benefit of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12637	The next speaker was Mr Knerzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12659	Mr President. Minister! High house! As an Ennstaler, I grew up with the problem of the Bundesstraße 320 and was very familiar with it. On this very busy federal road between Liezen and Radstadt there are countless intersections and no overtaking possibilities. You can imagine what this means for the arrants. There have been years of 100 traffic deaths on the B 320 and unimaginable human suffering. The responsible federal and state politicians have driven this problem away for 25 years, and many people have had to leave their lives unnecessarily, innocently. That is why I am very pleased that the new Minister for Transport, Dr. Monika Forstinger, has provided in her budget to solve this traffic problem. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Last week, a working meeting took place with the mayors of all the municipalities concerned and the responsible regional representatives of all parties. This problem was discussed for the first time across party borders, and such a solution has come at least a small step closer. Of the many proposals, the best variant for those concerned is to be implemented. One must stop slaughtering and using this serious problem as it did in the past. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nature conservation and environmental protection must also be taken into account. The solution variant must include a maximum of human protection and nature conservation. The inhabitants of the Innstal have deserved to be no longer victims of a missing transport policy. That is why politics has to act now!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12707	In fact, Mr Parnigoni, Mr Magistrate, said that he was correct. Trattner. – Please note § 58 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12731	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Parnigoni claimed that the predecessor of Mrs Forstinger had delayed the auction of UMTS licences and that the auction should have taken place already in the spring of 2000. It is true that the predecessor of Michael Schmid created the following timetable: Production of the legal basis until January 2000, tendering for regional frequencies in May 2000, awarding of regional frequencies in September 2000, tendering of UMTS in August 2000 and awarding in January 2001.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12762	The next speaker was Mr Reheis. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12783	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! "Durable balance sheet of the self-appointed Minister of the Future. The "EconomicsBlatt" was written on 8 July, and the "EconomicsBlatt" was the successor to the "EconomicsBlatt". ==References== – Her predecessor, Mrs. Federal Minister, was unfortunately a delay and an obstacle. With the Tyrolean population, your predecessor, Federal Minister Schmid, has acquired the dubious reputation of an anti-Tyrol minister with his zero-traffic policy. Unfortunately, he was not an ideal partner for us Tyroleans because he left this country in traffic with its transit burden in the truest sense of the word. Your visit to Tyrol, Mrs. Federal Minister, makes us hope that you seriously want to work together with the transit-stricken population on a quick solution to the upcoming problems. And there are really enough problems and concerns of the population. Questions that require your 100% care, such as: Will the transit contract be respected? Will you hold discussions at EU level that guarantee the protection of the population beyond the end of the Treaty, the year 2003? The Alpine Convention was finally signed not too long ago, but now needs an appropriate international secretariat. Innsbruck has offered itself with a very attractive location, namely the Golden Dachl. Question: Will you and can you use Innsbruck as the location of this secretariat? Mrs Bundesminister, another word on ecopoints sinners. In Tyrol, more than 8,000 trucks were caught from January to September, which were going illegally, it is said. But neither the drivers – they can usually do nothing because they have to drive or otherwise lose their job – nor the drivers have been persecuted or punished so far. This is not explainable to the population concerned. Anyone who commits a violation of law is punished, only ecopoint sinners obviously not! - You can't look at that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Will Austria agree to the EU's harmonisation efforts in the field of night and weekend driving bans? How do you intend to conduct Austrian checks on truck controls in the future? Will there be an intensification? And on the subject of truck-road pricing: Will the agreed date be respected, or will delays in favour of the transit lobby be on the agenda in the future? We need this money that's going to be lurked by road pricing. We need it for the safety and further expansion of our transport routes, for example for the construction of the Tschirgant Tunnel in the Tyrolean Oberland, which would relieve an entire region of traffic, or for further safety measures in the Roppener Tunnel, in which a car driver caused a serious accident with several cars and serious injuries only last Sunday. One word to the Unterinntalbahn: In the memorandum on the extension of the Brennerachse of May 1994, the members of the Austrian Federal Government and the Tyrolean Government expressed their support for the rapid progress in the implementation of the new Unterinntalbahn. Austria has committed itself in the transit contract and subsequently in the transit chapter of the EU Accession Treaty to the expansion of the Brennerachse as well as Germany and Italy to the expansion of the access lines. Only in the last few days has the Commission also recognised that cross-financing from road to environmentally friendly rail is possible. And only yesterday the "Tyrol Newspaper" was entitled: Bavaria calls for the construction of the Unterinntaltrasse because, according to the chairman of the Transport Committee in the Bavarian Landtag, Bavaria is already in the process of expanding the Munich–Rosenheim–Kufstein line. All these measures are aimed at the project Unterinntal and Brennerbasisbahn presented by Austria. Bavaria and Italy do their homework, writes the "TT", so Austria also had to advance the railway expansion. We Socialists have therefore tabled the following self-employed motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12878	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecher in word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12900	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If you, Dr. Grünewald, agree with the choir of those who claim to be involved in research and technology, everything is not going to be far too little, it should be much more budgeted, and, in your opinion, a double-digit billion would be needed every year to increase expenditure on research and development to 2.5 percent of GDP, then I must say to you: Obviously, you were wrong in the commanding station! The aim is to have research expenditure of 2.5 percent of GDP up to five years, i.e. in 2005, which means a 0.15-percent increase per year, thus 4.2 billion schilling annually in additional expenditure. If one is quite right to say that this amount will be raised not only by the public sector, but also by companies, by the economy – that is, about 50 percent – then the 7 billion schilling, according to the Council for Research and Technology, will go out for the next three years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is also clear that the economy must in any case be motivated to increase expenditure on research and development. At present, however, we already have more than 50 percent of the economy, 56 percent of total expenditure, but still below the EU average of 63 percent. But I am sure that the economy will also make its contribution here on the basis of increased public spending. We will thus, because research and development is not self-evident, strengthen the competitive advantage of companies and thus secure Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Gartlehner! You have filed a press release of the Ministry and, of course, you have just quoted a negative sounding passage from this press release. However, I believe that this press release contains many positive elements, such as the assurance of 7 billion schilling for research and development over the next three years. But it is also – and I believe this to be an important sentence – that the Research and Technology Council is seeking to "focus on defined research and development areas and to adopt the so-called "gift principle" of the past. I believe that it will succeed in finding the corresponding companies that will make their investments here. A sentence to Mrs. Federal Minister: I would like to ask you and would also like to address this as Minister Schmid did at the time, that even applied research projects that have already been carried out in your area together with the economy and are very successful, such as the competence centres, the Christian Doppler Research Society or the Cooperative Research Institutes, receive their around 500 million schillings, which would be necessary in the Federal Ministry of Economics every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12954	The next speaker was Mr Schwemmlein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12975	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I approach you with concrete wishes. Request number one: Since we had no transport policy at all for a long time, I would ask you to enter into a dialogue with us as soon as possible in order to see what steps you are planning. [[Abg. Zweytick: 30 years – a long time!]] The following is already apparent in the discussion: It is said again and again when weaknesses are shown that this is due to the non-existentness of the cost truth within the mode of transport. I think that it would be a very good approach to introduce a transport policy which would create cost-effectiveness between modes of transport, because the main advantage of this would be the citizen. My second wish, Mrs Bundesminister: This wish concerns the situation in my federal state of Salzburg, the constituency of Pinzgau/Pongau/Lungau, the big problem with the ÖBB-Tauernschluuse. This is currently blocked for the transit of cars. I ask you to tell us what you are planning to do in the shortest time, because all the cars that can't be driven through the tunnel are also loading the road. I think it is very important to have a transport solution here that the region can live with right before the high season. The third very important point for me is: The situation of the off-roads has been discussed several times in general. As far as the Krimmler Bahn is concerned, I ask you, after Mr Schmid has not been particularly happy and has not been very active in this matter, to help us get the call forward quickly. The ÖBB Board of Directors – I say quite openly, Mrs. Minister – also left us here in the rain. Among other things, it was required that the country be ready to take over the rolling material and then subsequently sell it to the operator again. I think all these are "chats", which are not feasible, not comprehensible and not meaningful. That is why I would also ask you in this matter as far as the Crimean Railway is concerned to support you. One last point which Mrs Hakl has also mentioned briefly: Since Kaprun is my neighboring community, I also ask you to take very care of the situation of the cable car in Kaprun. I appreciate – I would like to mention this positively – that you came to Kaprun immediately after you were praised in your function. That was a real and good gesture. Thank you for that. But I would ask you to support us in the follow-up to the fact that, on the one hand, the cable car company does not get into a situation that is not portable for them, but on the other hand, it also gives people the best possible protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13013	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hetzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13034	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The creation of a Ministry of Innovation and Technology is a signal for the future opportunities of our country and highlights the need and importance of technology offensives in our country. I would like to take a closer look at telecommunications. In the European comparison, Austria is in the middle of the range of internet costs and the number of users. In recent years, i.e. since the liberalisation of the telecommunications market, there has been a strong increase in the number of providers, the number of users and, of course, an increase in turnover in this area, which has also led to very positive effects on the labour market. The former monopolist, Telekom Austria, has gained strong competition and therefore, of course, structural problems. Since criticism of privatisations can be heard from this point of view, especially from the opposition, I would ask you to take note of the fact that a principle of the European Union is privatisation. Confess yourself to a liberal economic policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nationalization is really not provided for in this system of the European Union. The auction of UMTS licenses is repeatedly criticized. I can tell you – you may have read the tomorrow edition of the "Kurier" – that: In Switzerland, when auctioning these licenses, only 1.86 billion Schilling – not Franken! ............................................................................................................................ The rapid development of this market and technological progress have led to numerous innovations in the field of electronic data transmission. An initiative of this kind, for example, was launched in the West Styria region, which aims to establish a local broadband network. This project is therefore of particular importance because it also wants to link the Greater Graz region beyond the regional dimension. This supraregional thinking, of course, also requires a rethinking of political decision-makers. Positive effects of this networking of businesses, public institutions, offices, banks and so on are, of course, in large numbers, such as the creation of jobs in the field of teleworking, call centres and teleparks. This broadband radio, which is set up here, achieves a transmission rate of 2 megabits per second. This corresponds to about 30 ISDN lines and represents a quantum leap in this area. It opens up future-looking areas such as telelearning, teleworking and a global connection to the international network through a server. The wireless transmission of large amounts of data has not been common in a particularly crisis-stricken region such as that of course a huge challenge for the future, as well as a cost factor or a competitive factor for businesses in this area. In the field of education, the Voitsberg Trade Academy, which is located there, focuses on information technology and e-commerce. The high demand shows that young people are very interested in these issues and especially in information technology. New governance, as we understand it, also means correcting such educational shortcomings at the same time. It is time to use the existing potential, which is our voluntary youth, in a targeted way. And this pilot project, this important training initiative, shows that it is in the medium and long term the task to train suitable information technology professionals themselves here in the country in order to make the "import" of foreign professionals superfluous.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13095	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13116	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Screaming and partly uncomplicated She tried in the early part of the day to raise a traffic jam that really didn't happen that way. [[Abg. Gaugg: What's going on now?]] Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler was reddish yesterday than his solar brown, he was very excited. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you complaining about your own inability? The human chain has only been a heretic because you can no longer mobilize! You've mobilized the last offer!]] But let's return to transport policy. I have the feeling that in the future, there will be a chaos for the commuters in Austria, because of your transport policy, ladies and gentlemen. They were not prepared to launch an advertising offensive for the commuters, with the chance of winning as many people as possible for the changeover to public transport, nor were you prepared to increase, for example, the general economic performance in the 2001 budget, although an inflation rate of 3.2 percent was forecast. In other words, drivers are being thrown out, and now the railway drivers are heavily punished. [[Abg. Gaugg: The train drivers don't?]] I ask you: What are people supposed to go to work with? Beamen, I think, are not yet developed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Vignette, petrol price and car taxes cost drivers 13 billion schilling annually, and now the users of public transport have to purchase the third increase in prices in just 12 months. [[Abg. Gaugg: The evil Vienna transport companies!]] Example: A monthly ticket from Vienna to Wiener Neustadt first became more expensive around 40 S, then around 110 S and in 2001 again by 70 S more expensive. The price is thus increased to 1,200 S per month. Almost every Lower Austrian and every Lower Austrian has to go out of the residential district to get to the workplace. It's logical: The further the job is away from the apartment, the more uncertain it is to get there, because you do not always have the transport you need when you want to be on public transport. And it also has financial implications because it becomes more expensive for individuals. Why do these people now have to stand up as financial "meal cows" - under quotation marks - if the Minister of Finance uses the framework and returns little to the area of local transport? Why don't you, Mrs. Federal Minister, fight for the tens of thousands of comrades who will be really worse in the future? An example of a Mödlinger family – this is my home district – with two children: The man deserves 33 000 S gross, the wife 15 000 S grossto, her two children study. The car tax, the toll vignette, the electricity tax, the self-maintainment of health insurance, the increase of the recipe fee, the increase of travel costs – the two are public on the road – which all accounts for a sum of 26 800 S per year. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Why does the woman earn only half?]] That's a monthly salary! This is more than a month's salary, Mr Graf. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Who is responsible for the fact that women earn only half? - You! You!]] I don't think you should look at your conscience. We are not talking about women's policy now – I would like to talk to you anyway. That would certainly be interesting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Caring more expensive, railing more expensive, the secondary railways are at risk, the "advantage card" for young people is more expensive, and the expansion of existing railway tracks is, as it were, also delayed. This burden, I believe, should be sufficient to finally introduce reliefs for donors, and with the amendment I would like to make now, we want to make a real constructive contribution by calling for the increase in the general economic benefits to cover inflation. [[Quoted print version removed]] Of course, there are several demands. We demand an increase of at least 30 percent in the small and large flat rate, and we also believe that the mileage should be increased by 50 sizes per kilometer at last – both racing clubs say so for a long time. This would be a tremendous boost for public transport. In Germany, it is also the same that you get the mileage, no matter what choice of transport you make, whether you use a public transport or a car. Please stop You, together with us, agree to this anti-pendler policy and our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13314	The amendment tabled just now by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, comrades and comrades is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Grünewald spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Deputies! An actual correction has to begin with the re-examination of the claim to be corrected, and this claim has to be compared to the corrected facts if I may ask.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13353	I'll take a moment. – It was claimed that I would have charged myself with a point of order. I do not exclude this, but I said that every year a double-digit billion would be needed to reach 2.5% of the gross domestic product for research and development. I quote and put it right: In the report of the Federal Government "Research and Competition", signed by Albert Hochleitner and Arnold Schmidt, commissioned by ÖVP and SPÖ at the time, only 2% of R & D shares in GDP were calculated for the years 2000 to 2004 amounts of 9 billion to 15.5 billion per year of additional costs. I assume that it can also be based on false figures on the Federal Government's technology offensive; one should calculate that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13386	The next speaker was Mr Fink. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13407	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, people don't want any more demonstrations. That's why there was no chaos you wanted to talk about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm just showing you "The Free Word" from the "Kronen Zeitung". [[The speaker holds a page from the "Kronen Zeitung" up.]] Read this! You've been misorganizing. Mr President Nürnberger and Mr Vergestnitsch are no longer able to call for major demonstrations as they wanted. It is. I would also like to address two other transport problems, Mrs Federal Minister. I am pleased that Mr Knerzl has already addressed Ennstal Straße. Mr Parnigoni has referred to the Semmering Base Tunnel every time in this chapter, and this is what he has forgotten. He has always "gathered" the head of state of Lower Austria accordingly. He can't do it anymore. He can't do it anymore. I've got the "Kurier" here. "East Region Against Semmering Tunnel". There are three heads of state: Head of State Pröll, head of state Häupl and still head of state Stix. – Since there are two reds in it, this issue must no longer be taken up. But I'm very good at it. I think that this Semmering base tunnel is simply necessary for the Styria. And we, the Styrian ÖVP delegates, continue to represent our position on Semmering base tunnels. We're not going to get rid of it. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A second problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the route between Heiligenkreuz and Ilz. In Heiligenkreuz in Burgenland, the southernmost part of the border crossing to Hungary, traffic has increased enormously through the opening of the East. A huge traffic avalanche is rolling through the East Styria. Every day 1 100 trucks are manufactured in Heiligenkreuz. All localities in this area, whether this is Rudersdorf or Großwilfersdorf, will pass through, and it is therefore simply necessary to address the problem of this traffic problem. If we were to start expanding the B 65 now, we would need at least until 2010. That is to say, rapid assistance in this matter is required. Although the east opening took place in 1989 and already in 1984 – and every year, we did so – we tried to attract railway expansion in talks with the Federal Ministers for Transport, from Szombathely via Körmend, Fehring to Graz, which has never succeeded, it is of course also the fault of the Transport Ministers that nothing has gone on in this area and therefore we are also somewhat later on in the development of the road. Since 1984, there have already been all railway development plans, the costs have been known. The former Federal Minister Streicher was in East Styria, and a friend, a colleague of mine – however, he is a SPÖ member, but that's why he can still be a friend – said the Federal Minister Streicher had said to him at the time: But one thing I'm telling you: Don't talk to me about the East Railway! In this case, hold your mouth! – He may have expressed it slightly differently, but that is to say, the former Federal Minister did not want this East Railway to be expanded. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13483	The next speaker was Mr Dobnigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13504	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Fink! I am particularly pleased that the Styrian ÖVP continues to stand for the Semmering Base Tunnel, we also stand up for it, and I hope that Mr Grollitsch, who will speak after me, will also be able to say that we will be fighting together for this Semmering Base Tunnel. Then this tube will also be built, and we Steirer will be faster in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the very irresponsible burden of many Austrians and the large social decline, this German government also operates the sale of well-foliating Austrian industrial companies. One might even say: Family silver is tossed at the price of scrap! The best example of this is the completely unsuccessful privatisations of recent times. One industrial policy flop after another! You think of the disastrous result in auctioning UMTS licenses. The second flop was now the stock exchange of Telekom. Some 40 billion schilling of Austrian folk assets were lost by this bleak action of this government. The problem now is that the funds from this auction and Deutsche Telekom's stock exchange were firmly planned. However, as there is much less money available now, you lack this money. The question therefore arises whether research and development will again have to suffer from budget shortages. In fact, 7 billion schillings were promised. And I ask you, Mrs. Federal Minister: Will this promise also be held or held? This responsible policy of ÖVP and FPÖ threatens the further sale of domestic companies and technologies to foreign countries. The domestic capital does not provide sufficient potential investors, best evidence: the stock exchange of Telekom. The divestment of Group headquarters and key parts of companies is threatened by the sale. Research and development, finance and controlling are the first departments to migrate to the buyer's headquarters in the course of these rationalizations. The production facilities then remain as extended workbench. However, domestic subcontractors are also affected or are affected negatively. With regard to the alleged depoliticization in the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG, I would just like to say the following: The exchange of the previous supervisory councils by people from Mr Prinzhorn's circle of friends can only be described as the introduction of a political friendly economy. In contrast to the popular opinion of ÖVP and FPÖ, there are not bankruptcy and managed companies in the former state-owned industry, but very thriving industrial enterprises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Example: the VA steel. This industry has developed into an Austrian parade company. Due to the great use of both the workforce and management, record results have been achieved in recent years. At the recent opening of the new compact steel plant in Donawitz – by the way it is the most modern in the world – the political prominence of Black and Blue was also present, above all German Chancellor Schüssel, who also took the floor on this occasion. The interesting thing: Some years ago, politicians from ÖVP and FPÖ called for Donawitz to be locked up and called this work a museum. [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's it!]] If it had happened after you, we should have locked up and thousands of people would have become unemployed, an entire region would have been sentenced to economic death. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only thanks to the support of the federal government of the time and thanks to the already mentioned great commitment of workforce and management, the economic transformation to the better could be achieved. They are always talking about responsibility, including youth, and the need to secure their future. We Social Democrats too have 100 percent to do so. However, this will only succeed with a responsible and modern industrial policy to secure the local locations and an ÖIAG as a core shareholder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you're from ÖVP and FPÖ under the motto "More Private, Less State!" The state is not supposed to play business, I can say again and again, on an article in the "Kurier" of the 11th century. Reference and quote of November: "Austria needs more core shareholders, while the state can also slip into this role." The results of three studies commissioned by the Federal Society for Industrial Policy. The investigation shed light on public property from an economic and political point of view in the context of globalisation. The study of the Institute for Higher Studies relativizes a common opinion on the negative impact of the state on the economy. The fact that the State as a core shareholder is less efficient than private could not be proved. In a globalised economy, a company would certainly benefit from the back cover by the state." - Quote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We all share responsibility for the future of people in this country, including you from FPÖ and ÖVP. However, you are unfortunately not aware of this responsibility from the government groups. They're making a policy of driving and the loads. For this government, "Rerule Austria": Pensioners, workers and families, jobs and the economic location in Austria are at risk, and eventually family silver is wasted. But the paint is gone, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The invoice was only very clearly presented to you last Sunday by the population in Burgenland.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13587	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13608	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Bundesminister, you have probably had to see at a preliminary review of the situation of your resort how many unsolved checks of the socialist transport ministers have been in the last decades. Among the old loads there is one which continues to be negative in the budget, and I would like to address this briefly. In 1992, with a so-called organizational privatisation of the Austrian Wasserstraßendirektion, an Austrian Danube Company AG, in short ÖDOBAG, was distributed; 100 percent in federal ownership, takeover of 215 officials. Over the next five years, this ÖDOBAG needed 110 million schilling from budget resources and so-called structural adjustment, which means paying the officials taken over is intended to receive an additional 185 million, as can be seen from a parliamentary request to former Minister Farnleitner. With this back cover from the budget, the StaatsAG pushed private providers far from the Danube. The stated objective was to privatize as quickly as possible in 1992. When this was far and wide in 1998, Farnleitner split this old load and the subsidiary of ÖDOBAG, the so-called Danube Technology, also founded 100 percent in federal ownership. He took away 70 officials there. While these were at least responsibilities in the water, railway and measurement sectors, the remaining 45 officials in ÖDOBAG remained only administrative activities. Both represent a budget burden. Federal Minister Schmid is on his way to a real privatisation of these two Preparation work and a merger of the Supreme Maritime Authority and the Water Road Department. Mrs. Federal Minister! You can rely here on preparatory work and implement a concept which is entirely within the meaning of the government's objectives and, in particular, corresponds to the liberties' notions: debureaucratise, relieve budget, privatize. The concept, by the way, provides that no job is lost and the proceeds exceed the costs of the remaining so-called structural adjustment several times. I would ask you to deal with this project in a concrete and rapid manner. It is a privatisation with mind and heart. In conclusion, I took note of a press release by the Federal Minister yesterday – I hope you will also: It covers the animal transport arrangements. We have already discussed this issue in the agricultural debate today. I would like to thank our group for this initiative as an animal protection speaker. Mrs. Federal Minister! The obstacle will be the EU transport ministers. This is exactly the right approach that has been adopted here. If you, together with the Minister for Agriculture, achieve a reduction or elimination of the substitute for live animals transport by the EU, the lever is set where necessary. - It's all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13645	Mr Gradwelt has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13666	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I should like to comment briefly on Mr Fink's comments. Dear colleague Fink! It is not necessarily courageous to make yourself here as a steirer and to say: We're for the Semmering Base Tunnel! I also trust this, even if the heads of state of my group do not approve of it. It is only surprising from the Styrian point of view that the ÖVP delegates are here today at the speaker's desk and still say: We are in favour of this because Mrs Klasnic, the head of state, had already implemented it in September of the previous year. That's how it's at least been pasted – it's not built yet, and that's the problem, Mr Fink. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, a genuine regional offer, cross-party borders: Let's go, we'll work together to build the Semmering Base Tunnel, because it's not only for the Steirers and the Styrian economy, but also for the Carinthia, an important nerve, an important transport connection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pecher, in her contribution to the debate – which has already been corrected by Mr Greenewald in the meantime – said that false data would have been used here. Now I do not consider myself to be the one who can predict the need for money for technology and innovation in the coming years if, as the Federal Government intends, we are to reach 2.5 percent of GDP by 2005, but I am serving a Wifo expert, namely Mr Gernot Hutschenreiter, who is in the "Standard" of 9. October already noted: "If a research rate of 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product is actually to be achieved in Austria by 2005, then almost 70 billion more would have to be spent on research and development over the next five years." Of these 70 billion, he says, "about 27 billion schilling must come from the public hand." It goes on to say: "The latte, however, is high: According to Hutschenreiter's model bill to achieve the objective, research expenditure, which is nearly 50 billion this year, would have to rise by nearly 6 billion in the next year. In the following year, additional 6.6 billion schilling would have to be imposed on this increased level of expenditure. If the public hand, as before, carries 40% of the expenditure, then there is a budget burden of 7.4 billion schilling for the next two years." If you calculate this, then you come up with the double-digit billions that would be necessary. But very funny or not quite transparent is the fact that the Federal Minister for Finance has spoken of 10 billion schilling in his budget speech. In the statistical supplements to the budget, we are talking about 5 billion, but it is not quite clear where these are to come from, and we are discussing over 7 billion in this area. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am aware that this happened before you took office, it is also not an attack on you, but it is simply a statement of opinion that Members present here in the House claim other things against better knowledge than we have discussed in recent years, what we have tried to solve in some form. I do not want to say that I have a positive assessment of developments in this area as regards the Council for Research and Technology Development, and the first talks with the President of the Council have also been very positive. However, we have also learned there that through the fragmentation of the skills needs applications of the ministries, about 18 billion are on the table. These are two-digit billions, which would be necessary but would not be found in the budget. Mrs. Federal Minister! One more point from the time before your ministry, but one that keeps pushing me up again and again, which is why I have to say a sentence to that effect. In recent weeks and months, we have discussed the ÖIAG, the sale, the privatisation of the ÖIAG. – This sale is a sale! You, Mrs Bundesminister, are not yet responsible for this, but those who have worked on it have taken it very consciously. Here, family silver is sold at the price of scrap, and the, ladies and gentlemen, is not responsible policy for Austria, but it is in favor of others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It goes as Rauscher wrote in the "Standard" – I have already quoted it several times, and I am doing it today – to "a snap shopping under the "FoPs" (Freends o f Prinzhorn)". Mrs. Federal Minister! On the part of my group, I offer you cooperation in the field of research and technology policy – and I really hope that this cooperation will succeed. However, I also hope that there will be a change in policy in this area, because – with leave, Mr President! – the "snap shopping" of the "FoPs" cannot be the task of the House, cannot be the task of legislation! So should you seek a change, again, Mrs. Federal Minister: We Socialists are interested in such a change.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13764	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13785	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Forstinger, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your current "insight" here. The presentation was extremely successful and left an extremely competent impression. And I congratulate you very much on that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am always surprised that the Social Democrats have still not understood that this Federal Government has committed itself to a new course for Austria. It is still argued by you by the SPÖ with old clichés, with clichés that have not been valid for a long time. That is why I would ask you to argue a little more objectively here and not simply "float" so superficially. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kiermaier.]] – You should prepare a little better for speeches here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the short time available to me, I would like to draw attention to a particular issue, namely the bureaucracy that we have to deal with infrastructural construction. In this context I also noticed a highly interesting article in "Building internal". – Assigned: Of course, construction professionals see the situation as different from environmentalists. In an issue of "Bau intern" writes a Mr. Michael Steibl that there are too long lead times in Austria during project realizations or for the construction-typing of projects. This article also mentions that in Austria, for example, an EIA procedure usually lasts for four years – often even longer! – takes time. In Germany, on the other hand, this period could be achieved by means of an acceleration law – that is: Road acceleration law – are reduced to about 15 months. Ladies and gentlemen! Faith But you don't want me to talk to the road builders now, so much so that I wanted to play out road builders against environmentalists. No, don't! However, I believe that both the legitimate concerns of environmental protection and the legitimate concerns of a general public should be brought to the fore when it comes to improving infrastructure. And these many deadlines, which were very often "designed" in favour of individual interests, should be shortened, so that the time limits are also reduced. I was very surprised that, for example, at the B 310, the Bundesstraße up to the Mühlviertel and subsequently to the Czech Republic, the construction of a relatively small section of the route over which there is largely agreement in the population already takes more than three years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think we here in Parliament are invited to think about it, not at the expense of environmental protection, but in favour of a better economic location in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13857	The next speaker was Mr Rada. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13878	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is indeed a drama, Mr Mühlbachler, that I give you the right to start a new course in Austria. And the problem is that this new course also concerns transport policy. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If one lets this today's debate happen, one sees the dilemma in which our country is: Is it the public transport to be forced, is it the rail, is it the North Ostring around Vienna – or is it perhaps the waterway? In my actual contribution to the debate, however, I would now like to turn to three very environmentally friendly issues in the field of transport – with the request to you, Mrs Federal Minister, to accept this issue as well. For years it has been about the extension, the extension, to the intensification of the S 2 from Vienna to Laa an der Thaya. – Please forgive me that I am a wine-fourtle Member of Parliament who has just given this railway a great deal of attention. As regards this S 2: All measures have been taken, all planning work has been completed, all contracts signed, only: Nothing else happened! Her predecessor, Mrs. Federal Minister, obviously "forget" that he had to implement this agreement – also agreed with the head of state of Lower Austria. – So this is a problem that is facing a solution. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Since this is now often about environmental kindness and today it was again claimed what a traffic jam these "red-green chaots" in Vienna supposedly wanted to do: As regards the prevention of congestion, there is a very simple way out, namely the realization of S 80. This was a public transport, which could be reached very quickly from the eastern region to the newly extended U3 in Vienna. For example, traffic problems for the inhabitants of the eastern region of Austria would be a little easier to manage. We Socialists already have a slightly different view of transport policy than you do, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties: We believe that it would be socially more than fair to create attractive public transport networks. With a transport policy, however, it is of course also necessary to open up Austria's economic location – and I am therefore quite clear on this question with Mr Graf, who repeatedly calls for a north-east passage of Vienna. This means, as it were, the "life nerve" for the region northeast of Vienna. Mrs Minister, but now we have another problem to solve. For years, the problem has been discussed "Donau-Intensification". In this context, there would have been a wide range of possibilities – but the only thing that was actually done was to tip it into the Danube east of the Freudnau Schotter power plant, then get it out of Hainburg at some point, then reject the gravel again in order to prevent the Danube from entering this area. Of course, there would also be the possibility of preventing this intrusion by means of storage, but this does not mean that a power plant should be put there. As I said, The Danube could be prevented from deepening with congestion. However, when it comes to transporting goods environmentally friendly on a waterway, it must be ensured that ships with a larger load volume can also ride the Danube on this route. That is why I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, to make it clear here whether you are taking action on waterways in your transport policy. If this is the case, please enter into negotiations on this matter, open the discussion so that congestion can ensure that the Danube waterway can be run in such a way that this is also economically interesting.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13968	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13990	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Promoting research and development is an extremely important part of a modern and forward-looking policy – this is particularly important because it is about securing Austria as a good economic location. In this context, the direction that this Federal Government has taken is also extremely positive, but it has set itself the goal of raising the ratio for research and development quite clearly, from currently 1.8 percent of GDP to 2% in 2002 and 2.5 percent in 2005. This is a very dedicated, very courageous goal – and that means that by the end of this legislative period at least 7 billion schilling will be used in addition for research and development. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since I have said that this is a very committed and courageous goal: However, this is also and above all a necessary and clear commitment to a forward-looking economic location policy. I am sure of that, Mrs Forstinger: You are the guarantee that this objective will be achieved and that we will also launch a forward-looking policy in this area. I am pleased to have a clear commitment from the Budget Committee to enhanced cooperation between science and industry, to the technology transfer between universities and the economy. But, of course, there is a role to play in this, that the economy, especially industry, is motivated by even higher research achievements, that more investment in research is made, particularly in the field of the economy. But this also requires that we set impulses for private research. Finally, I would like to stress as very positive that, by creating this future, this Ministry of Infrastructure, it has resulted in a widespread abolition of the fragmentation, especially in the field of research, although – you have to say that quite clearly – research will, of course, always be a cross-sectional matter. However, it must be noted that the combination of competences for the FFF, the FWF and for the ITF in a ministry is a very important step, enabling a very clear strategic orientation of these funds. The fact that research and development are a cross-sectional matter, however, is actually not a disadvantage, but I believe that it also has a lot of opportunities, which promotes interdisciplinary thinking, which promotes the research spirit in many areas of our society. And that's good and necessary. Dear Monika Forstinger! I can still wish you very much happiness and success personally. Of course, you will have our fullest support – and I think you will certainly prove that your path is the right one! And you have also seen how much expertise you have even been attested by the opposition. – Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14050	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. The clock is adjusted to 8 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14071	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! As the Upper Austrian, I too do not want to miss this opportunity to draw your attention, Mrs Minister, to the situation of the Austrian ÖBB in Upper Austria. Maybe you already know: In this regard, we in Upper Austria are almost in a disaster. And when I look at what HL-AG is doing in recent months, I'm wondering: What do people think about it, what do the planners think about it? – There must be no such thing as that! One example: station Steyr. Now the station building is being rebuilt. There should be no more unknown that there can only be built anywhere in such a way that there are no more barriers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what is it like at Steyr Station? – Two new rooms were already completed, and at the entrance to both a stage was built, an artificial stage, because before you could very well get there without overcoming barriers! I may not care about this level, but the problem is that there is a) the ÖNORM 1600, which has to be observed, and b) it is so that if today a wheelchair driver wants to use the train, first roll it to the driver and report it to him. – But you will not be able to do that in the future, because Rollis is not known to be able to do so via stages! Mrs. Minister! This unculture is still continuing. No one feels responsible for what the HL-AG does, how it does – and above all, whether what it does is useful or not. I can give you examples, because it's really just more of a hair. For example, if the lift is broken at the station of St. Valentin, the nearest company repairing this lift is in Salzburg. – Do you know how long that takes?- Oh, my God! At least in St. Valentin I have maintained that there are also corresponding ramps in addition to the lifts, in order not to depend on this lift. – But this is only a single station where this was implemented. At all other stations – Linz station will be You probably know better than I do – the lift is 90 percent broken. That means, if the lift is broken, you can rot on the platform so to speak – but no one feels responsible! Mrs. Minister! The separation of infrastructure and passenger traffic in the eyes of railway users is really the greatest stupidity that has ever occurred to anyone. And I also bring another example. I'm taking the train to St. Valentin. Someone's got to take me out of the train. The train companion can't do that, because he can't be late. However, the infrastructure – and the hub platform is an infrastructure – cannot be operated by the infrastructure staff because it is not there to support passenger transport. And if passenger traffic is not a staff at the station because, for example, the cleaning women are free or the luggage staff has been removed, then you stand on the train with your wheelchair, from which you can't get out of it, so to speak, towards the infrastructure and from this not, for example, to change to the next passenger train. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this idioty, Mrs. Minister, we have had to live for the last two years, but there has always been a way out – somehow stop. But this situation now with this division, where no one is allowed to do anything for the other – that is what it is all about, it has kind of overlapd so that passenger traffic could be maintained – is a bad problem now, especially for people with disabilities. Mrs. Minister! But with the mutual help it has now stopped, because the staff of the luggage department are no longer there! In the future, there will be the only in Vienna-West and Vorarlberg on the West Railway. But in between, please, no one station will be equipped with luggage departments anymore, there will be no more luggage station! And that means, of course, that there are no more staff for it. For example, if a wheelchair driver wants to ride by train in the future, he can flatten it, because that is no longer possible, because the situation between infrastructure and passenger transport will be such that their employees will be put against each other in such a way that the passenger remains in the middle – in the truest sense of the word. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the situation. They will probably already know the employees, the so-called management departments – that has a huge name, I didn't notice it all – in Linz, or still have the pleasure of getting to know them. You know, if I call there in Linz, I'm sure everyone's got their hair up, because the name Haidlmayr is already making for excitement. Because if Haidlmayr calls, that doesn't mean anything good! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I can imagine that!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Do not let go!]] But I'll tell you one thing: The train companions are so grateful to me – not only the people with disabilities, but also the train companions – that I do, because if they say something, that doesn't count. Mrs. Minister! You just have to think about whether you want to offer passenger transport with the necessary infrastructure or whether you no longer want passenger transport. I'll tell you another example so you can see what horror stories you're experiencing or what life situations you can get into if you want to ride the ÖBB as a mobility disabled person. A friend of mine is blind. The train attendant put them out on the platform, because that was no problem for him. There it has stood, because the infrastructure is not responsible for passenger transport! And she would probably still be standing there today, not having had anyone had mercy on her and taken her to the train she wanted to move into. That's the situation! When I call Linz, they say, We can't do anything, so one is infrastructure and the other is passenger traffic, and they don't have anything to do with each other! If you are at a station today – and I am there – and the staff for passenger traffic de facto is no longer available, because there are no longer the "pockets", you will see ten heads standing there and watching you, how you are crampingly trying to find someone who finds the hub platform to somehow reach a train. And when I say, Please, can you bring the hub platform?, then the answer is: No, we can't, we're from the infrastructure! Then I say: Please hang on a sign, who is of the infrastructure and who is of the passenger traffic, so that you are not constantly embarrassed that you are asked for activities for which you are not responsible! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eder: That's it!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is how the railways are!]] And now to the infrastructure: Mrs. Minister! It is not unknown to you that the infrastructure has not done anything for years to use so-called large-space wagons. These large-scale wagons are therefore necessary because there are wheelchair toilets in them. I would never trust to drive, for example, the train from Vienna to Bregenz, because I couldn't go all the way to the cloister. And I can't drink a glass of water, Mrs. Minister, two hours before I use a train, because I never know if then a wheelchair wagon – even if it's inside the road map – is on it. This situation, Mrs Minister, is unbearable! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Today you can't ask anyone to travel from Vienna to Salzburg or no matter where they can't go to the toilet for hours. So that would have to belong to the past pretty slowly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! Now there are some of the so-called city shuttles. The wagons are okay, only there is no toilet again. What do you think you're doing? Do you think that someone who travels less than 200 kilometers by train is not entitled to use the toilet anyway? That's why on these trains, which are only short distances in any case, you didn't make sure there was only one wheelchair toilet from the house. They just don't exist. I asked Jenbacher: It is not intended to change that either. This was rejected by the infrastructure, although there were plans that included a wheelchair toilet. That's it. I think there is a real need for action! Mrs. Minister! One more thing: You probably know the route to Kleinreifling. Have you ever driven them on a train? [[Federal Minister Dr. Forstinger: No!]] I think so, Mrs. Minister! [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I don't even know where that is!]] In this train, Mrs. Minister, don't get in if you're not a routine train driver because you think that's the last ride to the museum. You'll send this car material there day after day! Every tourist comes and photographs because he thinks they've turned a train out of the museum. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If you tell the people that they're in operation, they're totally affected. Because technically, Mrs. Minister, they haven't been in line with the standard for a long time. What is being sent there on the trip is really more than a museum mature, which is really a attraction for tourists. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: For 30 years there have been socialist transport ministers!]] You can still use your train to attract tourists to photography. I wouldn't invite them to ride, because the risk is clearly too high. Mrs. Minister! The situation on the side lines will not improve either, for you know that Steyr, for example, is more and more cut off from the Westbahn. It is now also thought of not having much of the trains held in St. Valentin at all. Yeah, what are we supposed to do? Should we stop from St. Pölten just because the train doesn't hold in St. Valentin? It can't be! Then I wonder: What's this ÖBB for? Just more to get from Vienna to Bregenz – and all those who want to get out in between have had bad luck? [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! Then you'll be surprised that the trains are going through Austria as "spirit trains". Yes, Mrs Minister, if I never get out of Vienna to Bregenz, I will probably never get in! [[New general hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You cannot expect the public transport of the ÖBB to increase if you reduce the offer more and more. That is why I am glad, Mrs Minister, that you are from Upper Austria. It's as convenient to me as anything! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Then the train will stop at least in Linz!]] In fact, I have much more the opportunity to bring you and Landesrat Haider and Mr Struger together and as they are all called, much more and faster than I would ever have been able to do with Minister Schmid. Mrs. Minister! I tell you, I will organise the first meeting, a joint meeting with you and with the ÖBB and with me, of course, already in January. [[new general hustle and bustle]] Then, together, we need to look at such crazy things that really go to the substance and cost of railway users and that can only deter any person from using the track and how we can make the ÖBB so attractive that people who want to drive on the train not only drive if they want to experience something particularly horror-like, but also if they want to relax and use the train as an alternative to the car. This should be the meaning of public transport, and in this direction transport policy must go because that is the future! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And if the train is dirty today, it's probably not going to drive voluntarily any more in the morning.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14328	Mr Zweytick is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14349	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now it's hard, Hannes!]] I mean, my colleague Haidlmayr has just been very close to us – and thus actually hit the nail on our head – and all this has been missed by red transport ministers in this country over the last 30 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] This not only through the red transport ministers, but also with strong cooperation from the ÖBB – despite TV advertising with Gorbachev and Perestroika, which certainly cost some "small money". But that reminds me of your party presidents and the famous airport in Moscow – you can remember?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: Is there nothing wrong with you?]] It's not easy in this ministry at all: 250 billion schilling is the debt on the road and rail. This is a taxing amount for Austria's future! New reforms must be created. But especially the most concerned entrepreneurs or the most concerned companies, namely the ÖBB, dear colleague, show little willingness to cooperate. In Styria, the reform of the South Transport Association was launched in these days, these necessary restructurings, which also provide for the integration of student and apprentice-free journeys. But what does the ÖBB say about this? ==References====External links== June 2001 simply terminated, so simple and replacementless. Of course, the Federal Government is to blame for the termination of the contract – from the point of view of the ÖBB. [[Abg. Edler: All of this is so wanted by the ÖVP!]] Of course, the ÖBB will resume the negotiations with the Styrian Transport Association. Of course, the ÖBB will increase the tariffs. And, of course, the Federal Government is to blame for this. You can't do it that easy! And the ÖGB just sends people to the street. 49 companies have signed the transport service contract with the Styrian transport association. They can live with the tariffs because they know how a company is managed economically. The ÖBB General Directors do not want to apply the commercial principles in the management of their company. [[Abg. Edler: The director is an ÖVPler!]] [[Abg. Eder: From Pröll!]] The state is paying anyway – currently 36 billion schilling a year! I can't understand why the ÖBB is moving more and more goods from the rail to the road. For example, in Leibnitz the Gückbahnhof was left out, and the goods are now transported by truck from Graz to Leibnitz. Detail on the edge: Only 7 percent of the railway share in domestic freight transport is. [[Abg. Edler: That's where you've read a wrong number!]] No, that's fact! That's the truth. Finally, I would like to address the road pricing. I welcome the introduction of the fully automatic truck toll, as it enables all motorways to be properly included. There are no free sections, therefore no less favoured regions, saying: Economic areas. With the operator model, the installation costs can be reduced from the ASFINAG. Today, we are dealing with the chapter Technology, Innovation and Transport, and we are hearing the technical possibilities open up the high-tech companies. Let's see the chance and realize the fully electronic toll system! You, Mrs Verkehrsminister, I can wish you luck and success for the certainly not easy future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14511	The next item is the report by Mr Schweisgut. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14533	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! According to the words of Mrs Haidlmayr, it is now much easier for me to make a plea for the street. Before that, I might have been more concerned about the ÖBB and the rails as a Tyrolean in the Tiroler Unterland. But I'm going to talk a little bit to the street, and perhaps as one of the last speakers, I'm going to bother you a little bit with the desire to build a road in Tyrol. As the budget in the 2001 transport chapter offers room for investment again, I can give you a last wish from the federal state of Tyrol, namely the extension of the B 178, the former B 312, the so-called Loferer Bundesstraße. With your predecessor, Federal Minister Schmid, I have already held several talks about this and discussed the development of this very important street in detail. As you may know, this road is one of the most important links to the North-South as well as to the East-West. This is not only the inner Austrian connection from West to East via Lofer, but it is also a feeder road to the Felber Tauern and therefore, of course, also for many an auspicious route to the Brenner. This road is a project that has been in the drawer and is being discussed for over five years. I believe that it is also of great importance as a road for one of the most important ski regions in the world, the Kitzbühel region. It would also be important for tourism to address daily congestion, the impossible crossing possibilities, the separation of towns, leisure centres and the local area in the near future. Several measures have been taken in recent years, but safety on this road is no longer possible, and the smooth operation of transport is not guaranteed either. The road leads through several towns. The quality of life of the population is therefore also seriously affected in this area. The last reconstruction has been planned for 2005. I may also mention a uniqueness in this road project: The country of Tyrol and all the neighbouring communities have agreed to meet a pre-financing operation. But there is not only a pre-financing, but there are unanimous municipal council decisions in all places, and I think this is not a matter of course in a road construction project of this size. I can therefore ask you to address this project in Bälden. The project documents have already been submitted and I can ask you to see the pre-financing of the ministry accordingly. Perhaps a second area which I would like to introduce in connection with transport: There are several roads and several road projects that have been built in Tyrol in recent years in the form of bypass roads. Today, however, the localization in the nearby area of these streets has been re-protested. Finally, in the Kundl area, on one of the most important federal roads, a sectoral truck ban was issued. I believe that it is not necessarily reasonable for the economy – several large companies with several thousand trucks located in this area – to take 25 kilometres of detour every day and to have to drive twice a lot of road tunnels. I think this would be a false transport policy, an absolute dead end. I mean, The economy must also be able to live on the street. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! I believe that all those responsible in this country are invited to do everything possible to ensure that Austrian transport policy is not only at the expense of the economy in the future, that not only rail expansion is forced, but that reasonable road transport projects can also be implemented in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14589	The next speaker was Mr Kampichler. The watch is set to 4 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14610	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Like my Styrian colleagues, of course, I am also a hundred percent for building the Semmering road tunnel. But I do not want to deal with this. As Mr Parnigoni and Mr Dobnigg have had such problems with the auction of UMTS licences, I would like to add one aspect very briefly. I too was very disappointed at first, because only such low auction success was achieved. We would have needed far more for the reduction of public debt. However, I believe that we are in a better situation in the medium or long term. This has also recently confirmed to me a young specialist who comes from the field of telecommunications. He was at an international congress in Berlin, which took place on 21 and 22. In November, the UMTS network was further developed. There a very, very great concern was articulated by the Germans, namely that they suffer from the fact that the license fees are so high there. The industry complains that too much capital has flown from forward-looking and, above all, from growing areas in non-productive areas. [[Abg. Eder (Muhammad), no one believes that, that is nonsense!]] The stock prices of the German bidders decreased immediately after the auction, and the high purchase price dramatically presses the profits of these licence holders. Ladies and gentlemen! I talked to experts. They have confirmed this to me, and it has been expressed very clearly at the Berlin Congress. Mr President, I should like to thank You can really believe this: We are in a better situation, other countries envy us because with us capital use was lower, it was not excessive, it was more natural, and for this reason we will be able to say much better on the market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: You think there will be a little cheaper with us!]] The offer in the UMTS network can be kept affordable with us. [[Abg. Eder: Wait!]] Mr President, I should like to thank That means that all interested parties will be able to afford this offer, and above all we can implement this offer very quickly. [[Abg. Eder: After I'm curious!]] I'll remind you of what I told you today. Ladies and gentlemen! This strengthens our position, it strengthens our market, and it brings us competitive advantages for the future. Many will benefit from this, as will our economy and thus our budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14692	The last speaker to speak was Mr Ing. Weinmeier. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14713	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been interesting to see how the ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ have taken delight in and clattered the speech of Mrs Haidlmayr and apparently overlooked the criticism of her former transport ministers. So why they laughed, no one knows. Ladies and gentlemen! One cannot deal with the problem of transport without discussing the issue of secondary roads. Unfortunately, the Red Transport Ministers also left us a mountain of unresolved problems in the area of the secondary railways. The detours were systematically starved and thus made unattractive. In the area of the Mariazeller Bahn, however, a solution is expected. The use of the liberal mandates of Lower Austria and former Minister Schmid is expected to have been worthwhile. As a possible solution, Mariazeller Bahn appears to be leased. It is alleged that an agreement has already been reached between the ÖBB and the Land of Lower Austria. A solution for the Mariazeller Bahn is therefore within reach. This was made possible by the former Minister of Transport Michael Schmid, who himself went to the affected region, discussed with the people there and promised to work for Mariazeller Bahn, whatever he did. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] He immediately gave the ÖBB an instruction – I know that you do not like to hear that you have also failed in this area – to continue the Mariazeller Bahn until a successor is found. [[Abg. Edler: Stop it!]] He has also commissioned them to pursue this search for successors. If it had been according to the plans of the ÖBB, the Mariazeller Bahn would have been on 30. It was closed in June 2001. This would have been a tourist, structural and economic disaster for the region. The former Minister Schmid is therefore in line with the region's commitment to the Mariazeller Bahn. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The new Head of Division, Ms. Federal Minister Forstinger, therefore, has at least one of the many problems she has inherited from the previous governments.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14767	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the Special Rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the consultative group X of the Federal Proposal for 2001. This includes Chapter 65 of the Federal Estimate in 310 of the Supplements. Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Dr. Grünewald and Comrades' amendment. First of all, I will be voting on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining, not yet agreed, financial approaches of the Advisory Group X. Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the VA approach 1/65158. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the financial legal approach in 310 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Grünewald and Mr Comrades, which refer to the VA approach 1/65326. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the financial legal approach in 310 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen of the House, who are in favour of this, to give a positive signal. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We are now voting on the remaining financial legal approaches of the Advisory Group X which have not yet been agreed. This includes Chapter 65 of the Federal Estimate in 310 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent here to a sign of confirmation. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Advisory Group XI Chapter 50: Financial management Chapter 51: Cash account Chapter 52: Public charges Chapter 53: Financial compensation Chapter 54: Federal assets Chapter 55: Pensions Chapter 56: Other financing and investments Chapter 58: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, Text of the Federal Finance Act, establishment plan and vehicle plan
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14917	We are now entering the joint debate on the Advisory Group on XI and on the text of the Federal Finance Act and all the investments, as far as they have not yet been negotiated. The request for oral reporting is neither from the rapporteur-general nor from the rapporteur-general. Mrs Huber has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14946	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I laughed earlier when some of you did not get up in the vote, but the behavior makes me hope: Obviously, a number of Members have a bad feeling about accepting such budget approaches. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today it is now decided that the so-called Weldebudget, which has long been propagated, has been announced. Much of what the Federal Government... [[Some of the liberals stand at the government bank and talk to Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President! The President is not responding!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's something rude!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is an evil thing that breaks in.]] [[Unrest at the SPÖ.]] Much of what you have announced, Mr Finanzminister, and what has been said during the budget debates in the last few days in the House is diametrically opposed to the figures of the budget – according to the motto: What are the promises of yesterday, what do the numbers scratch me? But in one point you have kept word: It's a turn. It is a turn from a consensusal to a conflict democracy. [[Abg. Böhacker: A better turn!]] It is the turn of a, at least, relatively fair balance between the individual population groups towards a client policy. [[Abg. Böhacker: It's a turn for better!]] And it's the turn from the social state to an elbow society. By the way, the rule of law is of course also cornered. It is really annoying if it is determined against members of the government or even against simple party members. Where are we going if these disorders continue? Back to the budget. Let us highlight the cornerstones of this budgetary course of the turn. It is a neoliberal programme with a major objective of achieving the zero deficit by 2002. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! We believe that the objective is the right one for social democrats. [[Call to the liberals:Aha!]] In principle, however, we believe that the time and the path are wrong. Why is it the wrong time? – The main trading partners of Austria, namely Germany and Italy, plan their balanced budgets for 2004 and 2006. I therefore ask myself: What is your intention, Mr Finanzminister, to enforce the zero deficit in Austria as early as 2002 even though you are running social justice through this hasty, because the workers and pensioners in this country are burdened with billions? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the Freeman:30 years of social-democratic debt policy!]] What does this way look like? – I tell you, this path is wrong! First: Budget consolidation takes place mainly on the revenue side, because over the next two years, over 80 billion schilling will be increased in taxes, which means that the tax rate is the highest in Europe. Therefore, together with the two tax packages already adopted, small and medium-sized incomes pay disproportionately for the reorganisation of the budget. Mr Finanzminister! I ask you: Where is the contribution of the rich? Where is the contribution, for example, of a Mr. Prinzhorn and other friends? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also say to you that the way is wrong, because, second, the real income of people is weakened, thereby slowing economic growth and stimulating inflation. But what do neoliberal grossen counters care about what this really means for people? I'll tell you: The way is wrong, thirdly, because in reality it is not saved, but spent in a large style, for a karenz money without any need test, for agricultural subsidies that will be used up by large farmers, while the hardy little ones are fed with a bedding, and for the reduction of additional wage costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger]] In order for all of this to go out, it is necessary to privatize devils out. Under pressure of time and very unprofessionally, our industry is being squandered, and it is obvious that even forests and water and our lakes are sacrificed for budget consolidation. Or, I wonder, has it been done so boldly, because there is a grumbling degree of interest in prince horn and rope companies behind taking advantage of industrial businesses and hunting areas under the nail? To all the crying injustices comes that you completely overlook that the most important investments... – It really surprises me that as obviously "official" convoys you have still not considered more levelling calls! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Trattner and Haigermoser.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – To all the incisive injustices comes that you completely overlook the fact that important investments in the economic location of Austria, in people, in education, in research and development and in infrastructure, such as the Semmering Base Tunnel – that is, investment for the future – are missing. Therefore, we Social Democrats will not agree to this budget of injustices, this budget of redistribution from bottom to top, this budget of the wrong path that will permanently change our country and the future of our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15107	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15128	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! You, Mr Edlinger, have been replaced as Minister of Finance, and now you have been replaced as the first speaker of your group. [[Abg. Edlinger: Wait!]] We are already waiting, but probably the speech has already been printed. The "Kronen Zeitung" of tomorrow, today distributed at 6 p.m., writes: At midnight, Parliament adopted the 2001 budget – not without the speech of the SPÖ budget speaker Edlinger, also called "Krawatten-Rudi". – We haven't heard anything yet, we haven't voted yet. – He predicts that in future plagued citizens would have to pay more taxes 14 400 S per year. Mr Edlinger! You've never been able to expect, but it's very valuable if you make urgent inquiries. We have a urgent question by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Edlinger, who is merely a source of data errors. On page 2 under point 4: Within just two years, tax revenue will be increased by more than 80 billion or 12 percent by the new Federal Government. On average 40 S per day more than 1999. These are 1 200 S per month or 14 400 S more taxes per year than 1999. [[Call:The invoice is correct]] Mr Edlinger! There are now a few examples, namely: A household – a single parent, a child under ten years of age – with a gross income of 19 000 S in 2001 has a discharge of 4 660 S, which is as follows: 1999 wage tax: 20 282, wage tax 2001: 16 987 S, Child benefit: [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This was our tax reform, for the hundredth time!]] 17 400 S. Children's allowance: increased to 8 400 S, including the motor-related insurance tax for a 955 S golf, even the increase in the price of vignettes is taken into account. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This was our tax reform that we have decided! You voted against!]] Even if you calculate the energy tax, this single parent will have a savings of 4 660 S – and not an extra charge of 14 400 S, as you claim. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You voted against it!]] Another example: In a family there are two earners, one child under 10 years of age. One deserves 25 000 S gross, the partner deserves 21 000 S gross under the same conditions. Tax savings in 2001 compared to 1999: 7 390 pp. We already understand. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That was the tax reform that we have decided! You voted against! You don't want to understand!]] Those who do not understand are you! This makes me the second point, Mr Edlinger. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You and your group voted against it.]] In a press conference, Altfinanzminister Edlinger, apparently downgraded budget speaker on the part of the Social Democratic Group, says: Budget no recovery case. Rudolf Edlinger represents a financial discharge programme for Austria and defends the 30-year SPÖ budget policy. - So this is a dangerous threat. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] Mr Finanzminister! As an example, we have the statements of a professor Streissler: Budget renewal is not something that can be postponed. Finally, the Maastricht Treaties have constitutional status. Felder says: This time, the Minister of Finance protected the lower incomes. The Minister of Finance has made expenditure on a political basis, which was possible in a short time. Kramer: The budget creation, the consolidation of state finances, has been a priority. – Kramer speaks of a consolidation of the budgets, Edlinger says that the budget is not a rehabilitation case. Fresh says: The budget needs to be rehabilitated. - Edlinger says: The budget is not a rehabilitation case. An independent expert, Mr Köhler, President of the IMF, has, according to a quote in the APA of 6. In November 2000, it was said: Praise for Austria's budget image. Austria was on a good economic policy course, which would help to strengthen competitiveness, growth and employment policy. The IMF welcomes the introduction of budgetary policy. And that's the decisive thing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes! That's it!]] This government has brought this budgetary policy into line in an honest way. What did you do, Mr. Edlinger? – You have presented budget deficits on the basis of any budgetary cosmetic measures. The 1998 budget has been based on the fact that you have reduced the construction savings premium by 1.8 billion schilling, that you have recorded tax contributions in the order of 15.8 billion schilling as revenue that you have received 3.1 billion schilling on special dividends by the OeNB that you have spent free amounts in the order of 3 billion schilling that you have profited from the resolution of the zero coupon funds one time 4.5 billion schilling. Mr Finanzminister! You have actually always presented a budget only on the basis of budget cosmetic measures, and then you have caught up with reality. The reality has caught you in so far as you are really the only one in the state of Austria who talks that the budget is not a rehabilitation case. What measures do you intend to take? You mention here, that's really curious. They say: The SPÖ’s discharge programme shall provide for: Abstain additional expenditure for army and agriculture, no reduction in additional labour costs during this legislative period, abandoning the allowance for children, approximation of corporate and wealth taxation to the EU level. – But Edlinger didn't want to say details. Do you know what these measures make up summa summarum? – They account for between 35 and 40 billion schilling. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 42!]] Where are the other 60 billion that are necessary for budget recovery? Where are they? You would simply have wanted to be a budget again with budget cosmetic measures. But we thank God for this, and the Austrian People's Party was wise to stop taking government with you, so that finally realistic budget figures can be put on the table, so that people also know what is happening to them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Mr Trattner! However, the colleagues from the ÖVP have not joined us now!]] You must remember that these measures are necessary again and again. ==References== In December 1999, debt of 1,700 billion shillings was left behind, other debt and administrative debt in the order of 300 billion and 245 billion extra-budget debt. So we have a debt mountain of 2 245 billion. They would have written more and more deficits on a regular basis. This path would have led to Austria not getting away from the last place. That is why it was important for this government to put in place these measures now. These measures must be set at a time when the high economy is running, economic growth is guaranteed, full employment is and, of course, this full employment will be preserved in the coming years. Despite these budget consolidation measures, economic growth is in line with the EU and the Federal Republic of Germany. Everything else, so what? They claim here does not correspond to the facts. Minister of Finance Edlinger! They also know the picture of the EU budget data. We want to get away from this picture with Austria in the last place by means of these measures. We will not be top riders, but we will at least come into a healthy middle field and are not among the descent candidates. That is the success of this federal government, and that is why we will be happy to give this budget our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15321	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15343	Mr President. – Mr. Grasser is back into a conversation. [[The speaker takes a look at the documents of the previous speaker, which are on the speaker's desk.]] On this note says: The ÖVP was not there. – That would have been my first question. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's got a swindler!]] In fact, we should keep it in such a way that if we give the ÖVP its opinions – and I think it's a little bit more than that, Mr President, my speech will simply be censored as it was last time – so easily not to do so. Where have you been in the last 14 years? Please explain this to us again and again, because we have a corresponding need to catch up in the light of how you behave here. – Just as you don't want to remember what was, so we don't want to let it into our heads, whether you were there or not. This will require a 14-year-old effort. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I already recognise the argument that in a government coalition one cannot prevail as if one were in a single government, and that there can be approaches and motives for a change there – also for a change of content in politics. If you do not polemize, then this is a plausible access, which is why there are several majorities in a country. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Okay, the ÖVP has carried out these in this new government – on whatever narrow or straight paths – and that is a step to normality, a change of government is a step towards normality. The fact that we first had a government of a coalition of the middle is normal, just as one might call a legal government normal. It's all normal. – It may also be normal for such a government to pursue a right, conservative economic and budgetary policy. That's all normal. But if all of this belongs to normality, you must not be surprised, even if the reactions to a budget and budget reorganisation policy, which is based on the law, are appropriate, precisely if you yourself – in the direction of ÖVP – have left the way of social partnership prenegotiations, as it has so far been common in Austria. I don't know if I should be particularly saddening this point. But what matters to me now and today, after not even half a year of so-called reform dialogue, is that it is not allowed to be created here – Klubobmann Khol is no longer here – and those who criticize these measures push into a dubious corner just because they use their demonstration and strike law. So far, the arch, which is spread here from the reform dialogue to the jubilation over the zero deficit, cannot be enough. In the end, this seems to be a limiting effect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All I have described so far would still fall under normality in a democratic country. But that the majority of the government then stands up with parliamentary representatives in Parliament and a clubman from the beat of Andreas Khol simply claims that Members have been prevented from entering Parliament, just to fog anything into the room so that he can fight the media in time and disarm them, that goes too far. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are the next one! Unfortunately, you did the same yesterday. I happened to see the ATV broadcast. They themselves claimed yesterday that Members had been prevented from entering Parliament and working. [[Violent calls and calls at the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] Prove and prove this, and do not put such populist things into space in order to actually discredit the legitimate concerns and articulation possibilities of affected citizens and also of the ÖGB. That's the thought of your procedure. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl keeps an image in height.]] What is so bad about that when the ÖGB logs in a human chain around Parliament outside the "banning mile"? [[Ongoing calls for tender in the liberals]] I was essentially prevented by the police from switching the office, which is known to be on the Schenkenstraße. Excuse me, Mrs. Colleague! Would you like to calm down a little? Just because you're holding a poster for me, that's not a reason I have to comment on it for a long time. Taferl as an intermediate call has not yet been invented. You can't "hang" me now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To take this up again: Right in time for the summer hole, the idea of the zero deficit has been announced and sold very effectively. From this point on, the opposition has already been challenged so to speak: What do you say? Reform dialogue, reform dialogue, reform dialogue. Mr Finanzminister! If this is the end of the reform dialogue, that one presents figures that come to the table relatively short-term, leads more or less sham with the opposition, and at the end of the day, when those concerned are excited, who play the ball and stamp it into insurers and chaotics of the nation – what does this have to do with reform, what does it have to do with dialogue, what does it have to do with an honest and honest procedure? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But that would be part of the normality of a change of government. You have left this way. That seems to me to be the problem. Otherwise, all of this would not be so tragic and quite usual in a democracy. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. It might be worth taking care of it. What does not belong to normality in this government, we unfortunately had to discuss this in detail in the last half and three quarters of the year here in the House. And this is really the problem: that we have a government that has already failed by means of underground gears to fishing, that we have a government over which some of the EU's partners have been concerned with legitimate concerns and, for the first time, have – although unfortunately and in our opinion inadmissibly – resorted to these sanctions, and that in the end, a ministerial change is chasing the other, while the one who should go is still sitting on the government bank. In any other reasonable and democratic country in Europe, a minister of justice who is in such a strudel would have already resigned. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is no longer normality, and this is what you are trying to cover up with your process and with your self for the malaise in which this government is still very successful sales policy – which you really have to admit – very consciously. To this end – and I would like to end for the time being so that we can stay for a few minutes at the end – the Federal Chancellor's Office has a title with 50 million schilling for cross-sectoral government propaganda – as I think it is right to say. One can be of a shared opinion as to this. I think it is democratic to be concerned, because for such practices tax money is used to operate with those brain-washing that are supposed to already know that the zero deficit is so hot and great. I therefore ask: Then what's the whole thing for? I think it's worrying! I wanted to write that to you again in the main book: If you are already so sure of your process, why are 50 million shillings thrown out of the window? Explain this to us, my colleague. You're talking!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15450	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15472	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since we have a budget debate today and we have no question about individual Members, I would just like to say two sentences to my previous speaker. Mr Kogler! For us, it is not a normal state in a democracy that must ensure that about 200 police officers are able to enter Parliament in 183 MEPs. This is not a normal state for us as a democratic parliamentarian! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Secondly, It is undisputed that we now have 30 years with socialist German Chancellors and socialist finance ministers behind us. It is also true that 14 years of these 30 years was the ÖVP as a smaller partner in the government. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Mertel.]] That is what you yourself know: That partner, who wants to change something, always needs the second partner and is therefore always at a disadvantage. The person who doesn't want to change anything doesn't need the second partner. Then everything remains as it is. That was our problem! Now we have a partner who is involved in reforms, and therefore this "rerule Austria" is a strategy for the future. This is another partner, Mr Kogler. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I only have 5 minutes of speaking time and I still have to make an amendment. Therefore, I would just like to say the following: It was for me the twentieth budget debate I had in this house, and she had the following four marks for me: First Character: In this parliamentary debate, it became apparent that there is basically no substantial alternative to this budget. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no alternative! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we had applied the formula introduced by the SPÖ not here in Parliament, but in a press conference, namely: "20 percent less and the whole three years later", it would have been – as we have already predicted – by 45 billion schilling more debts. And the formula "consumer than two" is not a concept of future design, ladies and gentlemen! That was rather a dark chapter of our economic history! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second feature of this budget debate: For the first time since I pursued budget debates, it has been tried to put Parliament's debate on demonstrations on the road. The SPÖ was removed from the budget hearing, but at the same time the organization of street demonstrations. That's not a good move, ladies and gentlemen! That is why we should not pursue budgetary policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The decision will always fall here in Parliament and not on the street, Mrs Colleague! You can still make such loud calls, so you can't hide your in-depth weakness! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Third Character: We have once again experienced that it has been constantly explained how it does not work. Ladies and gentlemen! If you're in the government, you can't explain how it's not going, but then you have to show how it's going! That's what this government is showing! We will also decide today as an important policy for the future. Fourth point: It was really surprising that this huge rehabilitation package, which means an incredible national effort, for which all large groups of the population have to contribute, has triggered a package of 5 billion schilling 90 percent of the vertebra, namely the "social security" package, which also includes offensive measures. We have tried very well to be socially fair with the billions of disabled people, in the form of commuting aid and heating costs. It is not acting with the casting can or hammock, but helps those who really need it. [[Abg. Huber: That's not true!]] This is a qualitative social policy! That doesn't correspond to your ideology, I know! They prefer the social hammock and lawn mower mentality! We don't want that! We want to help those who need help, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In contrast to the opposition, the two government parties have very likely made constructive changes in Parliament's budget discussions, and I would therefore like to make an amendment now. Mr President. I would ask that this request be distributed, and would like to be in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure only briefly present the key points of this amendment. First: New overrun authorisation for the flexible execution of remunerations between federal bodies in accordance with § 49 of the Federal Budget Act. Second key point: adaptation of an existing overrun authority to the Federal Property Act already adopted by the National Council. Third priority: adaptation of the establishment and vehicle plan to organisational changes in connection with the Federal Property Act already adopted by the National Council, on the one hand, and with regard to main punching and testing, on the other hand, which, as originally intended, takes place from 1. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Fourth central point: Budgetary implementation of the subsequent amendment to the Government's draft financial compensation law 2001. Fifth and last key point: The total changes also result in changes in the final amounts in kind. 1 of the Federal Finance Act 2001, which was also included in the present amendment. Ladies and gentlemen! This was the result of the budgetary discussions carried out by the two government parties. We have said very well that we in Parliament still want to redesign what the government is presenting to us. That means parliamentary responsibility! Parliamentary responsibility, on the other hand, does not exist – as the SPÖ did – in an exodus from Parliament and in demonstrations on the street! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Mr Altfinanzminister! That was not a good style and not a good way, but a step back to the last century!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15592	The amendment just presented in its core points is distributed. It is sufficiently supported, is in a material context and is therefore also involved in the negotiation or voting process. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16338	The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16359	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I asked myself what Mr Mag. Trattner and Mr stupidly, I would no longer have been in this House, talking! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I have been wondering about this all the time during the budget debate, and very often a text of a Vienna song composer has come to my mind: "The Hofer was from the Zehnerhaus"! [[Abg. Böhacker: From the Zwanz’gerhaus!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No! The Edellinger was!]] You will find for all that bothers you in any sense, this debt allocation! I really regard this as quite positive, because, in fact, this budget and the speeches I have heard simply do not fit together! People know this too, and this has been shown today: After all, one cannot press a button, thousands of people express their protest quite clearly! Dear Dr. stupid! Unfortunately, I cannot answer your summary summary of our amendment as I would like to, because I have already received a call for an order for a very close replica. "Two years later and 20 percent less" can only say someone who either has not read our request or does not understand it. Since I don't give you the second thing, I can only assume you haven't read it. But there is also a third possibility, namely that in one of the things that you don't actually use at all, you argue against better knowledge here. But I do not want to go into that in detail now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would just like to comment briefly on a few points, because in the last 14 days we have already debated them very adequately. It won't surprise you if I say: I think the budget course is wrong, because it's spreading from bottom to top. The budget rate is mostly revenue-side, even if you try to explain the opposite with full-page ads. Federal Minister! According to Wifo, we have the highest tax rate. The European Union also says that the tax rate has fallen from 1999 to 2000. These were the measures of the tax reform! Now you have almost the same again as in 1999, which proves that you have evened within a year those distribution-political needs that we have put in place with the tax reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: 2002 the tax rate will fall again!]] You have therefore hit the socially weak in a very massive way by your budgetary policy! – Dear Mr. Federal Minister! I read with great interest your article "Finanzminister Grasser announces stress stop" in the "Kurier" on Sunday. There's the horror in my head, because when I last read it from you in June, there was the third load package from you three months later! So this announcement is almost a threat! If you then say that there will be tax reliefs from 2003 onwards, then this will initially sound positive. However, if you read about what exactly you will do in 2003, it is noted that you consider two points to be very important: firstly, the reduction of corporate tax, which primarily pays large companies and financial institutions, and secondly, the reduction of the peak tax rate, which in turn benefits those Austrians who earn a three-quarters of a million schilling and more. Mr. Minister of Finance! They announce the next redistribution program. That is what we must tell people in this country in all clear terms! And if you think you're consolidating expenditure side by side, I'm interested in how you're going to talk this time! Usually you say that Wifo is a wonderful institute. Now the Wifo has said that we now have the highest tax rate. – Now the statements of the Wifo are no longer relevant! The EU has provided you with better figures. But then the EU said that Grasser would not reach the zero deficit. – Suddenly, the EU has made a mistake in calculating! As a result, the OECD was suddenly the nonplusultra. A few days ago, the OECD stated in its Austrian report that more than two-thirds of its revenue-based measures were included in its budget programme between 2000 and 2002. – Now the OECD is probably bad too! Perhaps your friends in the United States have told you something else! I therefore insist: This budget is a budget of social redistribution in the sense that the little ones are asked for the cash register and the big ones are happy! – I would like to explain this to you on the basis of a simple example, and that is what I am going to stop. These are not my words, but if you read the website of the Chamber of Commerce of Upper Austria, you can see how the entrepreneurs of Upper Austria – and I assume you too – rejoice. I quote: "Social expenditure reduced, social abuse reduced: Measures to combat social abuse by the unemployed and the feeble: extending the period of waiting for unemployment benefit; better job creation through pension reform, while job-seekers remain insured for unemployment; the defence of compensation in the event of self-promulgation of the worker; reduction of post-search; intensifying the rules on the availability of unemployed people; reduction of the weekend rest for apprentices; apprenticeships on the weekend; increasing the weekly allowance for female entrepreneurs; 100 million schillings per year less social contributions for employers; unemployment benefit also for self-employed persons; Health relief also for families of entrepreneurs; higher contributions to industrial social security prevents; Tax, taxes and costs for entrepreneurs reduced!" Nothing else I say: They are making a policy for those up there against the masses of those down there, and that is what we will tell people in all clarity!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16443	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16465	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Edlinger! I was actually of the opinion that you will apologise here today! [[Abg. Edlinger: What for?]] At the National Council yesterday, you called a member of this House a drug dealer, Mr Dr. Pumberger, and you also received a call for orders. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Mr Edlinger! If you have only a little propensity and you're man enough, you'll apologize to colleagues Dr. Pumberger, because just as a doctor, he needs to have an untasteful reputation. This is an unheard-of process and a derailment, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, out of service! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now to the budget: The SPÖ colleagues have suddenly said that they actually agree with the aim of the consolidation path that everything goes far too fast. [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's right!]] Mr Kiermaier! That's very interesting! You seem to have a short-term memory! I should like to remind you of what your Budget Spokesman, Dr Kurt Heindl, said on the 2000 budget. May 2000: "That's why I can tell you what an unwarranted critic or observer who is obliged to do so means. What does National Bank Governor Klaus Liebscher say about this budget? I quote: “The budget consolidation plans are not ambitious. And they are ultimately not in line with the European Stability and Growth Pact.’ That’s exactly what the ECOFIN Council criticises. That is why I say to you: For all these reasons, the Social Democratic Party rejects the 2000 budget." - Quote. They have supposedly rejected it because too little is happening. But now Mr Edlinger says that the budget has to be rejected because it is too fast. That is what I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Social Democrats: What do you want? You really? Do you want to go to the serious budget consolidation course of Dr. Heindl or the debt policy course of the sniper Rudolf Edlinger? In this respect, you have to decide if you want to be credible in budgetary policy! As you always believe that the budgetary policy of this Federal Government does not come true, I advise you: Read other newspapers, too, not only those you enjoy! After all, the savings course is a good one! [[Abg. Edlinger: The Burgenländer have shown it to you anyway!]] I don't understand at all why the left three of the empire aged over that there were 21 161 more employees in Austria at the end of October. [[Abg. Edlinger: We are in no kingdom!]] With over 3,153 million people in employment, we have a record number. That is why I do not understand your criticism at all! Why Ageing She says that this new government has created a framework for economic growth of 3.5 percent – the highest since the 1980s! – isn't it? I don't understand at all that You are not interested in the fact that the number of job seekers has fallen to 171 000 and the unemployment rate has fallen by 11.7 percent! They criticise the fact that there has been a massive export boom in Austria. All that you're criticizing! This has not been done by the government alone, but it has created the conditions for it! It has given the economy the confidence to invest again. All this is not positive. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! You're on a wrong path! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They speak again and again – the time is unfortunately too short – of "the ones up there". - Who are "the ones up there"? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Edellinger! The cast farmer!]] Who do you mean with this term "the up there", the Bones, or who? They criticise the fact that, for example, the foundations do not levy taxes accordingly. Who has introduced the foundation law? – It was the Social Democratic Finance Ministers! [[Abg. May. Dad: Lacina was so!]] And what tax did they provide? – An entrance tax rate of 2.5 percent, otherwise everything tax-free. We, this new government, save there and get the taxes where people can afford it. The income tax rate is increased from 2.5 percent to 5 percent, i.e. by 100 percent, and an intermediate tax on interest and a tax on equity sales is introduced from 12.5 percent. – All of this is nothing for you, however! They have introduced tax exemption for foundations. We'll correct that. We take this back to the necessary level. You could have done such a policy for a long time, instead of saying here now that we're supposed to get the taxes from the "little" people! If you constantly criticize the privatisation of the Telekom share, I recommend you, the "Kurier" of the 6th century. Read on December and see the performance of the other Telekom shares! The privatisation of Telekom Austria is still a model example of good privatisation! You always forget in this context that it was you who cleared out the mail and Telekom! You moved out of this company, and she was standing there like a naked kid! You have given to Telekom 110 billion schilling debts on the trip! That was your waste policy! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll finish. I would like to thank you very much, Mr Finanzminister, but also your employees in your home for the work done! It was certainly not easy to create this great piece of legislation, so my thanks to the appropriate ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I can only say: With this budget, we are on a consolidation path that goes in the right direction. It is a path of success for the youth and for the future of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16604	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16628	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Böhacker has asked me to apologize to Dr Pumberger for a statement that has been recorded. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: It's finally ready!]] I have not, however, made this statement. I am not referring to this particular case, but to the same occasion to support my credibility Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, who did something similar yesterday: She has received a call for an expression which she is supposed to have said to Mrs. Dr. Mertel, but actually meant Dr. Grünewald. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I personally did not call you, dear Dr. Pumberger, a drug dealer! That was another one, and it's not my job to call it. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible!]] I'm just saying I wasn't! If I had actually been, I would of course apologize for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16695	Mr Pumberger spoke on a personal reply. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16719	Mr President. Mr Edlinger claimed that he did not call me "drug dealers" in an intermediate call, but someone else. I actually notice because I was personally addressed that he has received an order call for the call that I am a drug dealer. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We can prove that!]] If he claims that he wasn't, he'll put a falsification of the protocol under the name of the stenographer!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16758	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16779	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16800	Ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly interesting to continue this debate. Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking now, however. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16816	Thank you, Mr President. – Perhaps it is possible to hold these debates later and to continue the budget debate now! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. They meant that social democracy was a budgetary policy which was a step back to the last century. – I'm asking you now: What was it like in the last century? – In the last century, schooling and study were luxury and was a proper medical care luxury and reserved for those who could afford it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] What's happening now? – Through your policy, it comes precisely to this paradigm change to study fees, ambulance fees, recipe fees increase, hospital payment, to taxation of accident pensions et cetera, and you also set up the money for training leave after the baby break. Ladies and gentlemen! That could also be a step back to the last century! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We are already in the 21st century. 19th century! In the last century, we had 30 years of socialist finance ministers!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Your government does not stand for a social economy, but for a more than liberal market economy, in which competition and competition are the highest dogma, in which only the stronger can prevail and the weaker always pay back and nobody asks how the weaker will be in the future! Your demands for more social justice for the really needy – as you always put it – really mean a departure from the welfare state and from the social state and serve to build up debt hysteria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] Again and again you talk about 30 years of debt policy and say that Austria is a rehabilitation case and at all the last of the last! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today For example, Mr Großruck has even said that no one claims that Austria is in the abyss. So what's really right now? And then use this hysteria to suggest to the human being that it must be saved that all this is necessary, especially in this way! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Have you never had to save in your youth?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of economic growth without public investment and without active economic and growth policies, through which the framework conditions are created, we would not have risen from the European hinterland to the avant-garde of the industrialized countries! You will certainly not dispute that! But where information is missing, of course there are very easy rumors. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Have you never saved?]] I call two numbers: In 1999, the debt of enterprises and self-employed persons amounted to 1 603 billion schilling. Don't talk about that! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The federal government's financial debt amounted to 1,700 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: If you would put the debts of companies and self-employed on zero within two years, then everyone would tell you that this is economically absurd and not necessary, because each company will also have to borrow long-term investments and will also lend them because it makes sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] - Gentlemen! You only talk about monetary, we also talk about the economy in the sense of involving people, living and letting live, because not only money rules the world as it is your topic! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] Mr Puttinger! Your creation of a debt hysteria is a political gag and an attempt to favour people, so that you can get away from the welfare state! It is no different to explain that the employees and pensioners have to pay 48 billion schilling and the companies get 2 billion schilling back in 2003! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16932	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16967	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hagenhofer! I can now point out a very serious error in your view: They meant that the companies would not reduce their debts within two years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] That is not the point either! It is not the case that the debt of the State will be reduced within two years, but it is the case that the deficits will be reduced within two years, which would be equivalent to bringing an operation out of the loss zone at least into the break-even-point zone or into the profit zone within two years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Mr Edler, Mr Hagenhofer and Mr Mag. Gaßner.]] Debts are thus not equal to one year or two years of loss, but debt has accumulated over the course of 30 years! The losses are much lower, as you know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edellinger: 50 years!]] Or 15 years, Minister of Finance other than Edlinger. [[Abg. Edlinger: 1946 the first debts were made!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The ODP Alone Government...!]] I would also like to give an answer to your question. You asked, Mr. Finanzminister except Dienst Edlinger – courtesy is my line, so I express it differently – what Mr. Dr. stupid and Mr. Mag. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's nice that you say "except service" and not always "old finance minister", because that's so terrible!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Trattner would talk if you were no longer in Parliament. – Simple [[Abg. Edlinger: You would be speechless!]] You would talk about over 30-year-old socialist financial policy! [[Abg. Edlinger: I don't believe that!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: And where is the reproach?]] [[Abg. Edellinger:... to the third most important country in Europe! That's a balance sheet!]] Whether with edellinger or without edellinger: It remains a 30-year-old socialist financial policy, and this 30-year-old financial policy of course also had its weaknesses – its very special weaknesses. I am not saying, Minister of Finance other than Edlinger, that you would have been the top leader in budget debt policy in the concert of the Minister of Finance [[Call the ÖVP: That was the Staribacher!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Top rider was the bowl! 900 billions of debts he has decided! Imagine that! 900 billion! It's a hammer!]] You have already had the predecessors who have been much more heavily involved in the state fund! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where is the Minister? Where is the representation on the government bank?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where is the Minister?]] I would like to say the following: When we entered the government in 1986, this first year there was a budget deficit of more than 100 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: I... to interrupt the meeting, Mr President!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where is the Minister?]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where is the Minister?]] Only through the impact of the EIA has the deficit been reduced to 60 billion schilling in the first year. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Seriously, where is the Minister, Mr President? He's not fulfilling his obligations!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: Mr President, I do not see you acting!]] It has shown how much the Austrian People's Party was needed to launch this reform course! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka goes to President Dr. Fassleven.]] However, it was the Socialist Party, which has repeatedly opposed these reforms and which has insisted on bringing about profound reforms. [[Abg. Edler: Mühlbachler, don't talk like that!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, we now have to submit. Just one more thing: The allegation is that the budget reorganisation would primarily be carried out on the revenue side. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where is the Minister?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where is the Minister?]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's what the OECD says!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17318	I call Mr Mühlbachler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17333	Dr. Kostelka! They are disturbing my speech through constant calls, but not to my speech, but to another matter! So they meant that the main purpose of the project was to reorganise revenue on the one hand. I have, however, missed your proposals in all your debates, where one could save expenditure on the one hand. [[Abg. Edlinger: No gifts!]] From chapter to chapter, you have been eager to increase expenditure. I've never heard you want to save expenditure somewhere. That is why this allegation that only revenue is being rehabilitated must certainly go into emptiness! [[Abg. Dr. Hannes Bauer:... be saved on the expenditure side! Two-thirds!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think your accusations to this budget are, even if they are repeated so often, simply not to maintain! [[Abg. Dr. Hannes Bauer: I'm shocked, really!]] [[Abg. Auer: Mr Bauer, think of Lower Austria!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] I'm telling you, too. The population recognises more clearly than you do that the goal of once again being able to represent our government expenditure and government revenue in an orderly household is rewarding, and therefore it also takes the effort! [[Abg. Edlinger: On the expenditure side, one third, two thirds on the revenue side, says OECD! That's exactly what you criticized!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17441	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. Before I give him the floor, I would like to point out that the Federal Minister has apologised and informed him that he will leave the hall for a few moments. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: He left the phone!]] I would ask Mr Kostelka to take note of such information from the President-in-Office and not to pool it in this way. [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: I have no understanding of this, Mr President!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is the speaker's case!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Kiermaier has now come to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17517	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a few comments on this budget from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to relativize or clarify the need for this budget to be business-friendly: It's business-friendly, but only for the big ones! The people you have to represent and I have to represent do not belong to the industry and the big business. My concerns apply to the merchants, the host, the craftsmen and all other service providers who certainly do not belong to this category. These small and medium-sized companies are doing their business with those people you're going to pull the money out of your pocket! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the blue-black government! How do you think they should have the money they spend on us and what they have done so far to ensure that our small businesses can live as well? You can't spend a schilling, or later a euro, twice! How will this situation affect the first quarter of 2001? I am not there with colleagues Dr. Stummvoll, who meant that consolidation should necessarily take place in this form he represented. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why has Germany, with which we have been economically connected for so long and so closely with which the currency has been the same for ten years, not at this crazy pace with us? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: When did we have the same currency as Germany?]] – They have thought about this very well! They know exactly what they're doing! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You can also save a country broken! If you liquidate all the large orders in a row – you take the investment stop at the train, which is 2.3 billion schilling – then you have to be aware that this will, of course, also affect the companies. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mr. Kiermaier! When did Austria have the same currency as Germany? What was that for a time?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just thinking about increasing the advance payment for income and corporate tax of 20 percent – do you think that's gonna be good for people? – or the abolition of the investment exemption: What do you think about how many investments are not made? A masterpiece – I have already said it in committee – is the wonderful "scaring tax": Then we are told how glad we must be that it will get away after they have been introduced for half a year! Do you know what this cost on account of the necessary conversion of food and drink cards, registers and so on? Do you know who paid that? – That's what the host paid for! I would like to offer you good greetings, ladies and gentlemen. - That's not funny. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I come to a very serious problem, which may sound funny, ladies and gentlemen: Federal Minister! I would like to remind you of the first reading of the budget, and I would like to hear a clear and honest answer here and today, and I would like to ask you very specifically not to avoid my question – to your action when you showed us a proof of payment and informed us that Mr Franz Häusler sent you 10 000 S by means of an internal postal order. The "Small Newspaper" Graz then researched, and now we come to the results, my dear Ladies and gentlemen: Yes, writes the "Small Newspaper", there are three Franz Häusler in the Styria, but the weaning pants had none of them on. Here are the excerpts from the telephone protocol – then continues in the "Small Newspaper" –: 10,000 S? Do you want to plant me?, said the first. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Edellinger.]] The second said a little more fatalistic: 10,000 S – what are they supposed to be for? Then – and now this story becomes tragic – the information on this matter comes because of a call from the "Small Newspaper" in the ministerial office. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now listen carefully to what the ladies and gentlemen have said there: We ask you to understand! "Franz Häusler" does not exist in this form! My lords, that's not funny! You can now choose the following, Minister: Either you apologise for keeping the whole plenary session for the best, or you admit that in your ministry there is inability and the gentlemen and ladies do not know what they are saying on the phone. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel keeps a page of a television program on which a film under the title "Dämmer goet's always" is announced]] But to get out and go to the agenda here, you won't be able to do that! I'll tell you the following: This plenary is not a beer tent or a fun place, but here you have the truth to say! Minister! I don't take the saying "Whoever says the untruth, you don't believe it, and if he speaks the truth" in claim, but if you have told us the untruth here, I will not take away from you all that you want to tell us in the meantime! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17584	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17626	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have only two minutes of time and therefore I have to limit myself to a few points. Mr. Federal Minister other than Edlinger! [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not my budget!]] You asked what we would say if you weren't here anymore. – That’s a legitimate question. I'm actually surprised because of debt policy that you're still here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Something else surprises me: The artificial excitement of Mr. Kubobmann Kostelka, who has bitterly mounted that Mr. Finanzminister Grasser has gone out for two minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: He left the phone! He looked at a new generation of mobile phones!]] Wonderful! May I remind you, Mr Kostelka, that the predecessor of this Federal Minister, the present Minister outside the service of Edlinger, has often gone out because he wanted to smoke a cigarette, and we never had anything against it, because it was natural that it would have to be possible to say goodbye to the government bank for just a few minutes. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In addition, Mr. Gusenbauer is never here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite this strong consumption of tobacco, tobacco tax was not an area that would have contributed particularly to budget recovery. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a strong contribution to the budget, I have to say!]] I also wondered that it was just under the chapter Finance that they complained bitterly that the Chamber of Economics of Upper Austria was pointing to their success. I recognize these successes for their members, ladies and gentlemen! I prefer it, one can have positive successes and can thus secure jobs than to point out the closure of businesses because of a catastrophic economic policy in the homepage! [[Abg. Edlinger: The little ones pay it only! The little ones pay!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And who pays it?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget may cause pain in some areas. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who?]] Overall, however, this is necessary in order to allow for the necessary budgetary reorganisation. Federal Minister for Finance! I have an urgent request to you once again. This amendment points to an improvement in the financial compensation of 60 million schilling. In reality, it is 28 million, because 32 million are spent on the two municipalities, the municipal government and the municipal government. That's a big deal. I therefore urge you to think urgently about how to actually help the weakest communities!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17759	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17780	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Mr Auer, just briefly: On the homepage of the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol there is little positive about you – so much just as a start to my speech – because there is nothing positive to report about this government – so that it is clear once! [[Abg. Auer: There they have a bad advisor!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am really grateful if your urgent request yesterday! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That doesn't draw anymore!]] Of course, I am even more grateful for the speech given with a lot of Pathos, or for the answer to the question by Mr Bundeskanzler: So we're not supposed to make the country bad. The reverse: We should be proud of this country. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes! It's us! - "Yes!"- Call at the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Colleague! We are proud of this country! We are therefore proud of this country – and now you are listening well – because Austrian social democracy has pursued an offensive economic, financial, social and employment policy for 30 years, and you, Mr Spindelegger, cannot speak badly! [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: And debt policy, not to forget!]] Mr Spindelegger! Take note that social democracy has done a lot for this country, and note that the social democracy of this country, in order to remain in the football language, has led from the Underliga to the Champions League! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: on debt!]] You too will not be able to talk with so much polemics, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: You are at risk of descent!]] The three decades of social democracy were the best this country has ever experienced! – Mrs Fekter, you do not have to laugh at all because it is sad if you laugh at it! The Federal Chancellor confirmed it yesterday: He said we can be proud of this country! And I'm proud of this country! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, we are also proud of this country!]] But let us talk about it, Mrs Fekter, who really does bad this country: Today, I have heard the whole day of opposition debates – alas, apologies: the government parties – that they have always spoken of "cleaning up property" and a "shearing pile" as if only an hurricane had been swept over this beautiful country. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes! The opposition!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's right! You said right, "The opposition"!]] Was it not you, ladies and gentlemen, who stigmatized this country as a "rehabilitation case" in order to use a resulting supposed compulsion to reorganise public finances as a basis of legitimacy for a neoliberal crash course to push the state back from its tasks, so to speak, as the clubman of the liberals would be so nice to use for ultimate disassembly of the welfare state? Is it not you, ladies and gentlemen, who use the zero deficit as the central vehicle as the central message to overcome your – and I am stupid again with colleagues – social policy ideas from the last century? [[Abg. Edlinger: From the previous century!]] Is it not you, ladies and gentlemen, who operate the reconstruction of the welfare state? Is it not you, ladies and gentlemen, who are constantly de-olidarizing and splitting up society? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: When did the class struggle occur? – You’re running class struggle here!]] Is it not you, ladies and gentlemen, who are promoting a conservative family idyll? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Do you know what class struggle is? – The heating up of workers and entrepreneurs! That's what you're doing!]] Is it not you, ladies and gentlemen, who are constantly redistributing from bottom to top? I know you don't like to hear that, but it's just facts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Those of your kind policy, which your clubman calls "speed kills", interested, Mr Puttinger, are workers, pensioners, unemployed, sick, students and non-profit associations! Another thing: If Mr. Stummfully stands here and speaks of only 5 billion schilling, then that is bound by cynicism! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes, it is!]] Of course, you have to look at who meets it: For the groups I have mentioned now, Mr Stummvoll, 5 billion are a lot, and for the founders of this country, of course, 5 billion schilling would be little – I am right for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Oh, you! Class fight!]] Let me conclude by saying: Keep going, ladies and gentlemen, and you will find yourself more quickly than you believe – my colleague from Burgenland mentioned it yesterday – on the replacement bank, and there you belong too! Dr. Pumberger's still here. [[Abg. Amon: And the Steiermark!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Steiermark! Unterliga!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And who did bad now?]] Dr. Pumberger! A little correct from yesterday: You have told us that on the occasion of the debate on the budget accompanying laws, you would not have used the word "heroin", but "heptodon". [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who did bad now?]] We have now withdrawn the protocol: There's "Heroin", and you won't want the log leaders to falsify a protocol! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: It's too stupid for me to make an actual correction now!]] By the way – and you should know, Dr. Pumberger –: Heroin is not a drug, it can only be illegally concerned! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18089	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18110	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide today on the 2001 budget, we have done a lot of work. But we have done this great piece of work, namely the parties to this government, and not the opposition parties, because, as my previous speakers have already said, the proposals that came from the opposition were rather poor, and your work has rather exhausted itself in actionism. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is a weak argument! It's always like that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Intelligence Quotient!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That would be sensational if the opposition decided on the budget!]] Federal Minister! I have already proposed, on the occasion of the debate on the budget accompanying laws, that some major reforms be launched. It is these reforms that we have unfortunately not been able to work with the coalition partner in the old government. But since we refer to ourselves as the reform government, I assume that we can certainly work out these major reforms during this legislative period. [[Abg. Parnigoni: To the scrapping of the people we do not give ourselves!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You can do the politics of scrapping alone!]] Federal Minister! My first proposal concerns a re-codification of the Income Tax Act. As a result of the many novelties we have passed the Income Tax Act in 1988, the Income Tax Act has become so complicated that even the tax advisors no longer enjoy it. My second proposal would be a restructuring of wage and salary accounting. This is a wish not only for entrepreneurs but, of course, it is also a wish of the workers to ensure that their wage and salary billing is not a miracle in the future, but it is also possible for them to understand it. A long-term reform project would be a new inheritance and gift tax law. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Kill!]] – Regrettably, my colleague, this will not be possible! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Really!]] – The Heritage and Gift Tax Act dates back to 1955 and is not comparable to other European or EU laws and is not in any way in conformity. I believe that harmonisation of this law has long been in place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A law that has long been in need of reform is the Fees Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! They will remember – not the Minister of Finance, he is still too young: The predecessors of Mr Finanzminister and his State Secretary Ruttenstorfer celebrated the abolition of stamp marks many years ago. What really was? – The stamp marks were abolished in printing, but not in their use. We now have a bottleneck, and there are still situations where stamp marks are urgently needed, but are simply not available in trade. [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's something else! These are German stamp stamps and no car stamps!]] Mr. Finanzminister! I can remind you once again that after the decision of this budget you have no reason to lean back, but that a lot more work is waiting for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18255	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18285	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We just passed by with Klubobmann Khol: A great deal of work is still waiting for us together in order to continue this successful path and to clarify what we have started to put on the rails on fundamental reforms in this country, in order to explain this to the people in full clarity, by means of enhanced information and communication, because I believe that we have conducted a discussion process here in the House of ours, which is important and necessary. At the same time, however, I very much regret – and I am really saying that I do not believe that the opposition in this House has managed to find serious, objective, neutral access to our figures and proposals in all these days and weeks in which we have discussed the budget and the budget. [[Abg. Oils: They weren't there at all!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: A "neutral access"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The only reason why I should like to speak again today is that so many things have been said at this part-session, even now, in which we simply have to say: If you are objectively questioning who is examining the facts, it is important that it is simply not true that the facts are different! I therefore regret this all the more because this is the way of politics that is against everything that works with untruths, which represent things that are not so simple to the people, because it creates uncertainty and because it is a way of the total opposition that this country does not deserve! [[Abg. Parnigoni: What's wrong? Say it! What's wrong?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You only get into common places!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you want from the opposition, that would be a budget without consolidation, and that would mean that the deficit of the federal government in 2001 would be 57.2 billion schilling higher than that foreseen in the federal proposal. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You only get into common places!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Now you say the untruth, Mr Grasser, and you know that too!]] Calculate it after: In 2002, it would be 89.7 billion schilling higher than that presented by us. Thus you are for higher interest expenses of about 3 billion schilling in 2001 and of about 5.7 billion schilling in 2002. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Edellinger]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's how it looks!]] So you are in favour of a consistent continuation of your path, which would mean that cumulatively in these two years alone the financial debt would continue to rise by 146.9 billion schilling and we would pay more interest by 8.7 billion schilling. [[Abg. Edlinger: Mr. Khol, you always fit! For four years you have passed!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Khol) That's what you got now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not me! He can't mean me!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have said that we do not want to pay more interest and repayments for the past every year – currently in total 250 billion schillings per year – than we can use for the future of this country! We want to use more for education, for training, for research and development, for the training of our youth! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They say it's redistribution from bottom to top that we operate. I should like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that a different quality can already be observed if you compare the budget debate on the 2000 budget and now the 2001 budget: At that time, the opposition tried to get so many experts out of the bag because there were still many experts who confirmed what you said. But this time, I note, you don't call any more experts, neither from the Wifo nor from the IHS, nor from any other place, because there is no one who would confirm what you say! However, I can hold you against a few expert opinions, such as those of Professor Felder of the Institute for Higher Studies, which is outlined in a study from October 2000 – a very young study – on the issue of the distribution effects of the consolidation programme of the Austrian Federal Government. This comes to the conclusion: In the case of revenue-based measures, workers and businesses are taxed at about the same level. To the extent that these measures are to be allocated to the individual income groups, the Institute considers that the average and the highest thirds bear the main burden. - Quote. That is, Professor Felder confirms very precisely that in our programme we have realized what we have always said: We want those who have more who have more wealth, who have a greater income, to also contribute more to consolidation, and those who are socially weak, who have problems in securing their own existence, do not have to contribute to it, and we have succeeded! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I am referring to the fact that, compared to 1999, 75 percent of the population are not burdened by our package, in contrast to the 1996 package, which carried a Social Democratic manuscript and in which everyone, whether he has earned 12 000 S, 13 000 S, 14 000 S, 15 000 S gross, has been paid and taxed. [[Abg. Silhavy: Compare 2000 with 2001!]] This can only be demonstrated in the case of incomes over 30 000 S gross and in the case of pensions over 20 000 S gross. [[Abg. Parnigoni: If you say it so often, it won't be true either!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[New calls from Parnigoni and Silhavy.]] If you listen a little bit, you will be able to argue the next time in this House more reasonable, more objective and also the facts accordingly! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Professor Kofler – I could already quote him the last time – says: "The less the citizens are affected by consolidation, the more elegant and professional the renovation is. This means that the quality and quality of consolidation must be measured." [[Abg. Edlinger: That's why people demonstrate...!]] Professor Kofler therefore concludes: "If 75 billion schilling is not or is not subordinate to taxpayers or citizens by a total consolidation of 100.6 billion schilling, this is an excellent consolidation rate and quality of consolidation in the international comparison." - Quote. Another expert who confirms what we say. Next point: Professor Fritz Breuss, whom you also know, says at the end of a fiscal policy investigation on Austria on the way to the zero deficit – it has also been held today by the economy, and it has been said that we would consolidate too quickly –: "In addition, the calculation of the effects of tax reform 2000 and the consolidation measures show that the impact on economic activity is not negative by balance." This is an important point because you want to keep in mind all the time that the economy is being broken, and we are going to break this country down. This is also the point on which I am strongly committed, because I do not think that you are doing anything bad in this country, which is being set up in reforms by this Federal Government and by the majority of the National Council, and what is being pursued as good and right. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: We have seen that you are sad anyway!]] Another point: Nor will it be better if you keep claiming that we will make a consolidation of two thirds on the revenue side and one third on the expenditure side. [[Abg. Edlinger: OECD!]] That might have been your way! [[Abg. Edlinger: OECD!]] In contrast to what you said here, I have never brought the OECD to the meeting for me. [[Abg. Edlinger: Wouldn't be bad!]] However, I could only quote you, Mr Edlinger, if you have any doubts as to whether we will achieve this objective or not – I have never said that I have quoted someone who is a member of the National Council –; They themselves say: "Grasser's budget can hold zero deficit." [[Abg. Edellinger: Sure!]] Therefore, I do not know what you want to do with OECD and other things here, if you yourself say that this objective will be achieved. [[Abg. Edellinger: Two-thirds of revenue!]] I am glad that you confirm that we will achieve this goal. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the revenue and expenditure side, ladies and gentlemen: Those who look at the facts very soberly insist that it can only be a majority of expenditure-side rehabilitation. The public expenditure ratio in Austria falls by 4.6 percentage points of gross domestic product from 1999 to 2002. This is a much stronger decline than ever could be achieved in the time of my predecessor. In addition, the revenue ratio in our country will be 2.1 percentage points and the tax rate will fall by 0.3 percentage points. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and also the citizens of our country: If the revenue ratio decreases, and if the expenditure ratio is even more markedly lower than the revenue ratio, how should one have seen a mainly revenue-side consolidation process? – That’s impossible! This is also understandable in all the figures as to whether they originate from the OECD, whether they come from the Commission of the European Union. That is why it is a reorganisation of expenditure in particular! As we have always sought, it will also occur accordingly. I was also asked – and I think that was done very polemically – as far as Mr Franz Häusler is concerned. A parliamentary question has also been put, and it will, of course, also be answered. Ladies and gentlemen, not only can you be 100 percent sure that I will always tell you something if it is true. As far as Mr Franz Häusler is concerned, I can't do anything if journalists research so that they don't find the gentleman in the phone book. But I feel bound to data protection, so Mr. Häusler doesn't "get out" and say to no one: I'll lead you there by the hand, that's the Lord who donated this. The fact is, Mr Häusler donated 10,000 s. You can ask the postman, you can see the original proof, I also showed you a copy of the original proof at that time. Mr Häusler donated these 10,000 s, the postman brought them to my office, and we received this money. But we have decided – I have not yet been able to tell you that, because we did not know it at the time – after mature consideration, because there had been no call to the total population, since there had been no fundraising in our country in total, and because we did not want anyone to make a greater contribution than others to return these 10,000 S. You can take note of this, it is comprehensible in writing at all deposits and payouts. That's the truth. Mr Häusler has given an important signal with his willingness to donate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiermaier: What did your ministry say? The Ministry has said: "We ask you to understand that, Franz Häusler does not exist in this form!"]] I have answered your question very specifically – I believe that it is quite clear to you, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Kiermaier: This is from the Ministry, please!]] I do not know Mr Häusler, but he has done a very good job with his willingness to donate and has proved that the Austrians are willing to take this path of rehabilitation of the budget. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: There is a budgetary policy here that allows for various structural change, which also allows us to go from 31 billion schilling in 2000 to 36 billion schilling in 2001. We need employment effects because, unlike you, we want to achieve full employment in this country. We want everyone in this country who wants to work and who can work to have a job. We will also achieve this: with public employment impulses in the form of greater public investment than you have, in the form of research and development programmes, as it has never been in a past federal government, with more than 10 billion schillings we make available in this area. That's why there is also an expert praise whether the expert is called Streissler, Felder, Kramer or Fresh. [[Abg. Edlinger: Streissler said something else in the "trend"!]] They all say: This is a way that ensures the economic location in its attractiveness, a way that is important so that we as the Republic pay lower interest rates so that consumers pay lower interest rates so that companies pay lower interest rates, a way that is directed towards families, at the multi-child households, as it will prove to be the child's money, and a way that obliges us to carry out 15 billion schilling in additional wage reductions so that there is special attractiveness for the economic location and for employees. [[Abg. Edler: Rejection at the Vienna election!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Edler: At the Vienna election he is rejected!]] This is a way that will make Austria a modern country and lead to full employment and an attractive economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18718	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18748	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make it clear that we do not reject the budget because too little or because it is being acted too quickly, but rather we reject this budget and the accompanying law, because the weights are misdistributed, ladies and gentlemen, and because we will have a fact at the end of this legislative period, namely that 45 billion shillings have contributed the small ones and will have fewer incomes, while the self-employed and entrepreneurs will have 3.5 billion more per year. [[Call the ÖVP: Because too much is done!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] That is why it is rejected, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] As far as the way is concerned, I would like to say to Mr Grasser, Federal Minister, that information is necessary. [[Abg. Böhacker: Class struggle pure!]] It is also very much spent on this, because it is not understandable, ladies and gentlemen, what is going on here is doing in the way in which in many words you actually want to hide something. I say this very clearly: It is a budget that creates new inequalities, and one clearly feels the manuscript behind it. They always like to compare themselves with American conditions, ladies and gentlemen, very much! In America, in the last 20 years, the top 10 percent of income earners have 15 percent more, while the lower 10 percent of income earners have less than 6.5 percent. We do not want that in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, very much. Another comparison: 25 percent of Americans, i.e. the upper income quarter, have lost nothing in the last 20 years, while three quarters have lost in America. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But we decide on the Austrian budget here!]] In the same way, it will be in the health policy that you introduce. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We decide the Austrian budget and not the American!]] I am deeply convinced that a two-class medicine is at the end of this policy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A third of Americans has 25 percent...!]] Another thing: It was said of such a thing as untruth or total opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Bauer, go to Florida!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I know America very well. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then go!]] Just need to know that you have the same approaches. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: From Lower Austria to Vienna and then to Florida: a great career!]] They have the same approaches to health policy with the so-called insurance obligation instead of compulsory insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bauer, leave for Florida!]] In reality, in those countries where compulsory insurance exists as in Austria, expenditure of around 8.5 percent of gross domestic product is spent on health, in countries such as Germany 10.5% and in America 14.5% of gross domestic product. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then go to America, Mr. Bauer!]] That's not exactly why, Dr. Khol! Look, you can talk so hard with you because you're hard to come with. That is the problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we spend 8.5 per cent and have access to health care at 8.5 per cent, and in America 14.5 per cent is spent, but only half the population has access, then you can see what this course means, which is also to be started in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, go to America!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is not a two-class medicine!]] Just one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say one thing: This coalition was created by tactics, so to speak, through the back door. She was also praised by the back door. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And you were through the back door...!]] Through the back door she had to go to the Angelobung. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: They came through the back door to Parliament!]] I say one thing: Through the back door, you can't give us a budget that means a division of society. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, take note of this! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Because the Federal Minister for Finance has referred to it here: In reality, consolidation was already launched in 1995 to 1999, at 0.75 per cent per year. [[Abg. Achatz: Now I understand why you did not want to be kept in Lower Austria!]] This means that if one had continued this pace, one would have come to the same conclusion – without these non-social measures, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what matters! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Minister for Finance should note that he cannot present a budget here, which is that this budget actually has something like an economic approach and then continues with McDonald's words. This is not possible in this House – to clarify this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's your level, yes!]] Now I come back to the fact that the Federal Minister of Finance has quoted experts, and quote here three experts, Professor Badelt, Professor Streissler and Professor Walter. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What about McDonalds...?]] I quote from the "trend" of the 1st century. October 2000: "Three Ways for Grassers" means the title. They examine the actions taken by the Minister of Finance to consolidate the budget. And what's her thickness? [[Abg. Achatz: Is now flying through the front door...?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] – Hidden tax increases, no structural changes, and too little for renovation; the next savings package is certain! Dear ladies and gentlemen! That's the answer to this course.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19079	The next speaker is Mr Müller. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Schlögl is right! Schlögl has absolute right: Bauer belongs to the responsibility! He's in the opposition! I really have to say, compliment Mr Schlögl!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now the speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance! High house! Mr Bauer, you have talked so much about the back door. I think you have also come to Parliament through the back door. You, Dr Bauer, have not voluntarily left St. Pölten, but you have also gone. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With regard to the 2001 budget, Members Gusenbauer and Edlinger have tabled a motion for a resolution. I quote briefly: Budgetary rate in principle wrong, zero deficit totally arbitrary, budget 2001 no turn budget. – This is the view of social democracy. I agree with this observation that some expert statements can be made as follows. Streissler: Budget renewal is not something that can be postponed. If one had waited longer, higher interest rates would have taken place. Fielder: This time, the Minister of Finance has spared the lower incomes. He has also made expenditure side by side, which was politically possible in this short time. Kramer said that the consolidation of state finances would have been urgent away from EU commitments. It is positive that structural problems have been addressed. Current economic conditions are favourable: a growth rate of 3.5 per cent, which will decrease to 2.8 per cent next year; the labour market is developing well, one can speak of full employment. The end of the 2001 budget will amount to around 32 billion schilling and will therefore be around 22 billion lower than in 2000 and around 35 billion lower than in 1999. For the first time in 2002, a balanced budget will be sought. From that point on, there must be no increase in public debt. If the opposition speaks of a socially unfair budget, that is simply not true. I would like to remind you: Disability billions have been decided. This government will spend total social and health expenditure of around 725 billion Schilling in 2001. A targeted labour market policy also actively implements poverty reduction. Only two examples are the equality between workers and employees, as well as the increase in the minimum unemployment allowance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has done the right turn. In addition to the structural measures adopted, a further step is being taken towards fiscal consolidation through privatisation. It is not a form of ideology, it serves the purpose. The 2001 budget also includes an attempt to draw the consequences from the threat of the infinancing of state tasks, which will enable the sustainable, sustainable development of the Austrian economy. The editor-in-chief of the "Salzburger Nachrichten", Mr Barazon, also noted that in addition to economic privatisation, spiritual privatisation is absolutely necessary. How did the Minister of Finance find so beautiful in his budget speech? – A good day begins with a renovated budget! I wish our Republic and our Minister of Finance very, very good days.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19197	The next speaker is Mr Fink. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19218	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, Mr Lacner: Has Are you already pushing out the Styrian election result? – I say to you: Don't forget that! You can fall deep! [[Abg. Edlinger: Klasnic has opposed the government...!]] Don't get overly oblivious! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Bauer! Did you get your van before you came in? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Or, Doctor, how many have to sign that you came into this house at all? – I think the term "indoor" is quite correct: This is a beautiful "democratic" attitude that you show! However, I would like to mention a few numbers. Because this advertising is always addressed by 70 million schillings [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: 80!]] We want to inform, we want to inform honestly, and we do that with these 70 million schillings. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic said that these 70 million schillings would be for 10,000 people per 7 000 s. [[Abg. Edlinger: You misuse tax money for your party policy agitation!]] That's where I can tell you by comparison: We pay 280 million schillings per day! [[Abg. Zweytick: That's how it looks!]] That's 40,000 people who could have 7 000 s – but that's it a day! In the year it would be 14,600,000 people who could get 7 000 s! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll call you another number for the comparison. [[Abg. Parnigoni: A fairy tale hour!]] In 1970, the ÖVP Finance Minister handed over a debt of 43 billion schilling. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Although Edlinger did not give his office decently, he handed over a debt of 2 274 billion schilling. [[Calls.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Edlinger still calculates with the calculator, and that's wrong!]] That's 70 billion schilling more in debt in 30 years per year. That's a huge sum – and you're still talking about making more debts today! [[Abg. Edellinger: 900 billion your partyobmann!]] I think this federal government is going the right way. [[Bravo Rufe and congratulation with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] This federal government is signaling a historic and very far-reaching start of this federal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19390	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19411	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of this House! On the fifth day of the budget debate, it makes no sense to repeat disputes that have already been debated for a long time, but I am allowed to sum up. We are on the right path to our core goals: first of all, no new debt; second, a reduction in government debt, and thus a chance to save useless billions for interest and thus shape the future – just as every normal budget has to do! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the age of 30, I took over the office of mayor in my home community. At that time I asked a professional colleague, a wise man in my home community, what he would see as the most important thing in politics. He said: I'll tell you the parable of the two strong horses and the donkey. Note, if you have two strong horses that pull on one strand, and they pull in both directions, then there is no result. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is true, the bowl...!]] You have to move them to one end. You can achieve a special performance when the donkey moves in the same direction. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I wish they felt like a strong horse.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19453	Mr Bauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19498	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] First of all, a clarification on Mr Fink: Of course I do not have a service car because a Member of this House does not have a service car – except for any other professional or political function. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why not?]] I don't have them, I'm only a Member of this House. I would also like to say one thing to those who ask again and again, and I would like to make it clear straight away: These changes are an internal matter. [[Abg. May. Trattner: How many have to sign?]] - That's the first one. Secondly, to clarify this: A good work can be done anywhere, and I will do this good work here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last: As important a country as it is, I know that the political decision for the future of Austria is here. [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Actual correction!]] That is why I would like to take part in this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19598	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the XI Consultative Group. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Half the SPÖ is missing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer, Vergestnitsch, Nürnberger...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for attention! This is a longer voting process, and I think it is also an important one at the same time. I'm asking for a little rest! [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the guidance group XI of the Federal Proposal for 2001. This includes Chapters 50 to 56 and 58 of the Federal Proposal in 310 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 370 of the Supplements. To do this, MEPs have Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Trattner and comrades submitted an additional or amendment request. First of all, I will vote on the part of the supplementary request, then on the part of the amendment, and finally on the rest of the financial approach of the Advisory Group on XI, which has not yet been agreed. Deputies Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Trattners and comrades have submitted an additional request relating to the insertion of new estimates in Chapter 55. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and thus accepted. In addition, MEPs have Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Trattner and comrades submitted an amendment with regard to several approaches to Chapters 50 to 53, together with the amount of change due to the amendments. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of a sign in this regard. – I note that this is also the majority and thus adopted. We now proceed to the vote on the rest of the non-coordinated financial legal approaches of the Advisory Group XI. This includes Chapters 50 to 56 and 58 of the Federal Proposal in 310 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 370 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those Members of the House who are in favour of it for a sign of approval. – I note that this has been accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the text of the Federal Financial Act, together with the title and receipt in 310 of the Supplements, as amended by the Committee's report in 370 of the Supplements. To do this, MEPs have Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Trattner and comrades submitted an amendment. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the text of the Federal Finance Act, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Trattners and comrades have tabled an amendment to the final summaries in Article I and in Article VI(s). 1 of the text of the Bundesfinanzgesetz refers. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a positive sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the text of the Federal Finance Act, together with the title and receipt in 310 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report in 370 of the Supplements. Those ladies and gentlemen who are for this, I'm looking for a sign. I note again that there is a majority and that it is accepted. Finally, we are voting on the investments belonging to the Federal Finance Act, as far as they have not yet been agreed upon. This is the summary according to groups and chapters of Appendix I and Appendices Ia to Ic, overall overviews, taking into account the amendments resulting from the special reports in 370 of the Supplements, the Annex II, establishment plan, as amended by the Committee report 370 of the Supplements, the Appendix III, the vehicle plan, as amended by the Government template 310 and 310 of the Supplements. Deputies Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Trattner and comrades have submitted an amendment relating to Appendix II, establishment plan, Part II.A and Annex 1, Part 1, and Appendix III, vehicle plan, Section II.1. Since only one application was made to the above-mentioned investments in the Federal Finance Act, I will immediately refer to the investments belonging to the Federal Finance Act, in 310 and 310 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee Report in 370 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Let Trattner and comrade vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2001 and investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – I note that this approval is by a majority. The law is therefore also adopted at third reading. This adopted the 2001 budget. [[Prolonged condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Dr. Khol go to the government bank and rich Federal Minister Mag. Grasser hand.]] The agenda is exhausted – you, ladies and gentlemen, as I hope, are not yet exhausted. We have a short debate in front of us. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19692	We are now negotiating the request made by Mr Pilz to set up a committee of inquiry on the responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior for the illegal transmission of data from his department. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19746	We are now going into the debate. In the sense of § 57 para. 1 GOG is the speaking time in the debate for 5 minutes, with 10 minutes at the disposal of the first speaker. Comments from members of the Federal Government should also not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19773	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Political culture in this House has changed permanently. I have never actually experienced an adoption of the Austrian federal budget in the form of the Supreme Soviet, where the government bank is clap down. [[General hustle and bustle.]] No, I don't want to set up an investigation committee on the type of budget adoption. I beg you not to misunderstand that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How was the Supreme Soviet? Did you also kiss the ground in Moscow?]] This is interesting: One only needs to say "Oberster Soviet" – and even Mr. Khol will be fine again. – I greet you again among the living! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He was with the Colchosen!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Too bad that the Busek is not there, you could have sung the "International" too!]] However, as far as the Supreme Soviet is concerned with a particular type of club leadership and coalition discipline, we could discuss this issue another time. I devote myself to the subject of the Committee of Inquiry and try again to justify. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whoever doesn't want to investigate needs to sit down, and that won't be the last time. We are going to have to make this request, I fear, a few more times, for a very simple reason: Whenever plenary is free, we get an invitation, once from the head of state of Carinthia, once by the clubman of the Freedom Party, about as follows: Yes, we call for an investigation committee to finally clarify the conspiracy against the Freedom Party. Falsified letters, their office of abusive Director-General, the liberal prosecution prosecutors and judges, and much more. – This must be examined urgently whenever the National Council does not meet. When the National Council meets, the opinion changes in the short term, and it must no longer be examined. Ladies and gentlemen! They therefore give the Committee of Inquiry a certain opportunity. The longer you delay it, the more material you find. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (positions a picture of the musician Richard Egües and says) The Gusenbauer!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (in the direction of Abg. Ing. Westenthaler) You're pretty primitive!]] The longer you delay it, the more it is determined and the more files, testimonies and other material we can use. In this respect, I do not have a certain understanding of your contribution to the education, otherwise – purely parliamentary –. On behalf of Dr. Jörg Haider, by Ing. Peter Westenthaler, but also on behalf of the Austrian rule of law, I would like to ask you once again to agree to our request for committee of inquiry. If you don't: The next request, the next evidence, the next witness statements are determined. If You really want to wait for the first charges, that's your business. Dr. Khol! At the latest – you know, we've experienced it together twice, you'll let it arrive a third time – it's that far. We'll see you in the committee of inquiry about the top-level cowardry. The only question, which is now open, is how much request a majority of this House has voted in favour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19904	For the following speakers, the speaking time is 5 minutes. The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19926	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After this "comprehensive" and "impressive" ceremony, which you have done here, when you adopted the budget and gave each other a mutual applause, I would have expected to do something about it – it has not really had something to do with the subject, but it has not had much to do with the issues that have been discussed – because Mr Schüssel has so much understood the past of the country that you – and I would like to say this on this occasion, because I think it is a matter of getting to the point of being pure – once together to go down into the ÖVP club, because there is a drawing, a picture to glorify the Austrofascism – that of the Lord Dolfust – and that could have depended on you. Ladies and gentlemen! You allow me to take this discussion today to give you the opportunity to say this because it is one of the greatest shames in this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You're doing great here on statemen and explain all day that you've renovated the country. You should finally depend on this unbearable picture! If you have done so, you can make yourself and explain to us how this country should continue. I can stay short. I think you can vote in favour. It will certainly be the case that justice nevertheless determines. The security authorities against which you allow attacks and failures will deliver their results, and then that will come what needs to happen: There will be some rows lit. Mr. Khol! I personally do not understand how the ÖVP, as you can see not only as a lawyer, but also as a university teacher, a driving force that, in my opinion, has for a long time nothing to do with fairness. I have to say that although I did not expect it directly from you, I am astounded that you are not really putting anything into the discussion at all, nothing that serves the rule of law in any way, but simply look at how the concept of FPÖ – which has now become one of you – has to be said with regret – is carried out, as is the case with ignorance through the country. They simply try to bend the right with all possible means of power and bring about what you want: to force the perpetrators who are running around in this country simply not to come before the judge. This is a shame that you have to represent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (in the direction of Abg. Ing. Westenthaler, in whose place is still the image of singer Richard Egües) This is a primitive person!]] Maybe only very briefly, because it's one or the other... I will then end my remarks, as I believe that it is unnecessary in itself, just as the discussion is going to take place and your voting behaviour will be to continue to confront you with facts. [[Members of the Freemans are in the ranks and discuss or consider this in the place of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler standing picture.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Is there still a meeting?]] But you shouldn't forget something. [[Unrest in the hall.]] This letter, which appears there, has turned out to be a messy forgery, by which former Clubobmann Haider immediately explained that it is a fake of which we all know – the smallest child in the country – that he obviously had only the purpose of being found to stamp all other evidences as unbelievable, this letter is not the first in a story that shows us how the FPÖ and Haider can deal with things. In the last issue of the "profile" is a report on the intrusion, about the noise attack that Haider claimed in 1998, when he declared that he would be incarcerated at frequency 172.72 by intelligence services. You can certainly still remember, at that time there was even a urgent matter on this subject. – Then it turned out that this frequency is the frequency of the fire brigade and not of the Ministry of the Interior, as the FPÖ has claimed. Then there was a search, and as part of this search, it turned out – and now there is a private detective’s statement – that he has lent him the annex by which Mr. Haider was stifled at the time. [[Call the SPÖ:Oh!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This scandal, namely to say: I am being stifled! and afterwards it turns out that the plant with which it has been incarcerated was loaned, in my opinion, shows clearly what manuscript is to be pursued in this obvious procedure. This is a shame – not only for the FPÖ, but also for the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: Painful for the ÖVP!]] I can tell you: The reputation of this country, which you always raise so high, does not serve – but that is your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20032	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. At the same time, I am looking for the ladies and gentlemen of the House, even though the hour has already progressed, so much attention that one hears the speaker and that it also conforms to the principles of courtesy! Please, Mr Ollinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20059	Mr President. I hope that I will be able to see myself in the light of the advanced hour. Allow I would just like to make two more comments: The one comment: Sturm-graz should have just lost again. This may be related to the fact that whenever the woman's vice chancellor stops at the stadium, the match is also lost. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Very "loving"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore recommend taking this as an opportunity to think seriously about whether Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, who also has many stadium ambitions, does not sometimes give a dispensation. The presence of Mr. Westenthal in the stadium will certainly bring the storm players also to fear-driven championships. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You don't have any arguments at all!]] Let me make a second comment. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: He has completely spiritually gone away!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Pretty weak today!]] It is already striking that every word is missing to the government parties when we discuss a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals and the ÖVP! They've become speechless. It is striking that whenever representatives of the government parties – as last Mr. Secretary-General Sichrovsky – are allowed to speak on television, they are "of course" in favour of a committee of inquiry, because the Freedom Party has nothing to hide in this causa – and that would be recommended to the party friends. [[Abg. Gaugg: Everything in its time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have experienced that Mrs. Vice chancellor obviously failed not only at Sturm-Graz, but already yesterday evening or night in the Causa Fast. We experience that the leaders of the Freedom Party – including their Secretary General Sichrovsky – obviously cannot prevail in the party with their approval for an investigation committee. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! On the matter!]] – Mr Khol! I'm talking about the matter. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! It's not about storm-graz, it's about the investigation committee!]] It's about the investigation committee. I have just pointed out that Mr Sichrovsky, too, cannot prevail in this causa. It will be interesting to see how the Austrian People's Party will be able to communicate to its voters in the coming weeks, that it was actually always for the committee of inquiry, and only by the Freedom Party – probably by Mr Sichrovsky – was prevented from actually agreeing to an investigation committee. Ladies and gentlemen! It's notable! You do not even want to talk about why you say "no" to an investigation committee, and that alone speaks volumes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20212	May I ask for some attention again? I should also like to ask you, Mr Magistrate. Trattner, if there are smaller but longer lasting conferences to do them not in the hall, but outside! Please, Mr Ollinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20231	Thank you, Mr President. I assume that the Members of the Freedom Party are discussing whether they wish to vote in favour of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can be sure that this is not the last debate on the Committee of Inquiry, and I assure you: There will be plenty of opportunities and facts that will enable you to agree to an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20270	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Dr Van der Bellen referred to the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The debate is closed! No more word-reading! Don't sleep!]] [[Violent calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Since the report has been made at a time when I am already expressing it, but at the same time... [[New fierce calls to the greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true!]] . I would be very grateful if you would give me the opportunity to express yourself. I was about to say: As I have spoken, but at the same time the hand of Mr Van der Bellen has already gone up, I would like to receive his speech on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That is also meat, whether the debate is closed or not!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You do not change the Rules of Procedure, Mr Schieder! You don't!]] Please, Mr Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20356	Mr President. At the end of the sitting, I would just like to express my dismay at the fact that during a normal parliamentary debate, you allowed yourself to have a coffee house. [[Violent calls.]] Mr President. I ask you: What would have happened if the Socialist Group and the Green Group had done the same during the budget debate? I'd like to know. What you have offered here is really a downgrading of Parliament. I must, in every way, be aware that the Bureau is allowing this to happen. That really disturbs me!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20396	Mr Van der Bellen! I can tell you that I would have behaved as well as in this case. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's bad! That's very bad!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Platz, Edlinger!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to continue the debate outside. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Pilz's request for an investigation committee. [[Call the SPÖ: There is no such thing!]] [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry, but there's no more words available, I didn't get a message orally. There has obviously been a misunderstanding here. I ask Mr Klubobmen to take a short stand with me. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 22.58 p.m. and resumed at 23.02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20458	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. In the short term, I have discussed the fact that there has been no more speech, that there is no longer any more available and that the debate is actually closed. Mr Pilz has come and has not given a speech, but it has not been notified to me, nor has it been planned for business regulations, because there has already been a statement of reasons and both political groups which have notified themselves have made their speech. That's the one point. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Too late! Whoever comes too late punishes life!]] The second point I would like to make is that: I have experienced debates in this House of a wide variety of quality, including with very different noise levels. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: With pictures!]] Depending on the situation, this sound level is undoubtedly also above what can be expected from all sides of this House. I've never set up a different scale here – no matter from which side it came. I would ask you to take note of this too. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Pilz's request for an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by means of a sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20522	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications were submitted to 347/A to 349/A. Questions 1636/J to 1649/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Thursday, 14 May. It will be convened in writing at 9.30 a.m. on December 2000. This meeting is closed.
