ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4604	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you all and ask you to take the places so that we can take the 19th. The European Parliament, the Council and the Economic and Social Committee will be able to start the current legislative period. I declare this meeting open. The Official Protocols of 16, 17 and 18. The meeting was held in the Parliamentary Directorate and remained without opposition and was therefore deemed approved. Deputies Dr. Mertel, Dr. Partik-Pablé and Dr. Povysil are reported as prevented. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4641	I have been informed by the Federal Electoral Authority that Mrs Eleonora Hostasch has waived her mandate and has replaced Mrs Mag. Maria Kubitschekin was appointed to the National Council. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. It is present in the House, and I will therefore immediately make the fishing of this new colleague. After reading the vow formula by the writer, Mrs Parfuss, the new mandater will make her fishing observation with the words "I vow". I should like to ask Mrs Parfuss as a writer to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4668	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4683	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4699	I warmly welcome the new colleague in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4726	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office has communicated resolutions by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the government as follows: Ms. Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner was represented by Mrs. Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Mag. Molterer is represented by Minister of State Dr. Strasser. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4756	Now, at 11.03 a.m., we arrive at the current hour on the subject: "The civil and criminal responsibility of an officer of a party in the Krida case" For the reasons of this current hour and its subject, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. The speaking time is scheduled for 10 minutes from the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4789	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Press reports have stopped in recent weeks, press reports on the debt of a party, namely the Social Democratic Party, which was co-imported with 200 million schillings in mid-February of this year. "SPÖ on a huge debt mountain," it was called, and: "SPÖ writes dark red numbers. Pressure of debt." "New SPÖ boss inherits huge debt mountain" and so on. The level of debt rose to around 300 million schilling by the end of February, on which the designated party chairman Gusenbauer said: I don't deal with party finances. This should be done by those who are responsible for this situation. - Quote. Until March, we were able to read that the 350 million schilling limit had now been exceeded. And lastly, several newspapers and magazines reported, including the "Kurier" of 11th century. April 2000: "Participation finance two-way SP-chefs: Bank debt amounts to 411 million." And in this issue of the "Kurier": "The SPÖ has 411 million Schilling bank liabilities, according to information from the innermost management group, and has 195 million schilling assets." – Alexander Slickovits of the credit protection association, responsible for new insolvency, said: "If these numbers are final, and I read about a company in a newspaper, I think: If there isn't a solution soon, I'll get a new client." "Principal," says Slickovits, "are parties to legal personality that can also go into bankruptcy." Ladies and gentlemen! Whether 350, 400, 411 or 500 million Schilling debt: This disaster is the largest financial debacle of a party in the history of the Republic of Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And all this at the expense of taxpayers, all at the expense of taxpayers, who must also be involved in the promotion of parties! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, yes, the crack sausage from the edlinger...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It does not judge the others, but its own party members, such as the former finance minister and expert of your movement, Hannes Androsch, who very little in the last issue of the "profile" rated with the words "shattered and without content". Who is responsible now? Who is responsible for this financial debacle? I understand that all this is difficult. And they like to say in the SPÖ, too: We have dropped from 51 per cent to 33 per cent in the last 20 years, with no more than 700 000, but only more than 385 000 members. I'm sure all of this is difficult, but I'm telling you very clearly: Not the voters, nor the members, are guilty of this financial debacle, but of your failing party management, which has allowed this debt mountain. They are to blame for this financial debacle – and that at the expense of taxpayers! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] All of this is done in the light of the latest figures relating to the promotion of parties: 1.08 billion schilling receives the SPÖ in total, and yet it has created the "art" – despite 1.08 billion schilling in party promotion! – to build 411 million schilling on debt! [[Abg. And what about your Lower Austrian party? Rosenstingl...?]] That's really a piece of art! Who's to blame for that? Who is responsible? Climate says: I took over from Vrannitzky a debt mountain of 367 million schilling. As a result, Ederer – then SP-Federal Managing Director and now Vienna Financial City Councillor – said: These were not 357 million Schilling debt, but climate has taken over only 153 million Schilling from Vranitzky's debt. So how was that really? Who's to blame? Was it Vrnitzky? Was it climate? Gusenbauer wants to have nothing to do with this, although in a few days he will officially become SP party leader. As early as 1998, the party has already submitted an accountable report stating: New loan of 65 million Schilling for the repayment of federal debts, and 10 million Schilling for interest for old loans this year. – That’s easy to calculate, and that means: The SPÖ already had at least a debt of more than 200 million schilling in 1998, and you, despite this debt, in 1999 – thanks to the satisfaction of your former Federal Managing Director Rudas – you have beaten an EU election campaign for 80 million schilling and a national election campaign for 100 million schilling. That, once again, despite 200 million schilling debts. But it's not over yet. Now it is suddenly known that the SPÖ is trying everywhere to eliminate its debts and take up loans, loans for debt eradication, most recently at the Steiermärkische Sparkasse. This is a great thing: At the Steiermärkische Sparkasse, a loan of 60 million schilling was received on the basis of the operation of the Steirische SPÖ Chairman Schachner-Blazizek. 60 million schilling for the repayment of the federal party's debts! And this borrowing has been executed by none other than the head of the Steiermärkische Sparkasse, Director General Hofer, who is the SPÖ's financial agent at the same time. [[Call to the liberals: Unbelievable!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Now I ask you, Mr Kostelka: What were the terms and conditions of this loan? It is true, Mr Kostelka, that now ears are pointed! – that the SPÖ has received a 60 million schilling credit by its own financial referent, for the interest of only – now hear It's her! – 3.75 percent to pay? Is that right? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: There is no such thing!]] Mr Kostelka! Is that right? Are you giving us information today? Every ordinary citizen now pays 6 or 6.5 percent interest. I'll tell you: This is a party-political scandal that takes place! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:FPÖ Lower Austria...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ lives constantly over its conditions. That's what Andreas Rudas said, one who needs to know, and he still thinks it's good, yes, benevolent. It's worse when a weekly magazine like "Format" says: "The SPÖ is pleading – and it doesn't know exactly how it is pleading or how it came about, and not how it could change this state." - That's the worse version. And the very bad version is when you look at § 159 StGB – negligent Krida – in which it says: Paralysed Krida is guilty of "negligently bringing about his inability to pay, in particular by driving excessive effort" – Rudas: The party lived constantly over their conditions! –, "used easily or disproportionately" – Steermärkische Sparkasse and all other loans! – "or granted, a part of his assets is wasted" – which is already being discussed. I put this into space only once, so that everyone also knows what dimensions this financial debacle is in. "The SPÖ is pleading," is already written. The accusation of the negligent Krida has already been raised and examined, and I therefore say to you: They cannot hide continuously and call no figures, because the Austrians have the right to disclose, to examine and control the party finances, including the Federal Republic of Germany. And that's what we're asking! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We already know that the SPÖ cannot deal well with money and figures because of the 109 billion schilling budget hole that the Minister of Finance has left us. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How was the crack sausage?]] But it is also adventurous. For example, the former SPÖ management director Rudas is questioned by a newspaper – printed in the "Kurier" of the 13th century. April – as is the case with the Federal Party Centre in Löwelstraße, to whom it belongs, who pays rent for it and to whom. Rudas provides the following information: "I can only pay rents to the no. Agronomic Chambers. That the building of the municipality of Vienna is completely new to me." So there is a SP management who doesn't even know who the Federal Office belongs to and to whom he has to pay the rent. Then it comes to the surface that for many years the SPÖ has paid for the 1,800 square meters of its federal office all 58 S per square meter! 58 S! Explain [[Call to the liberals: This is incredible!]] You're the "little" tenants! ==References====External links== Vienna district, in the best location where every square meter today costs 250, 300 S! – You can't explain that, and that's why you've already found a culprit. Who's got to pay? Who's got to get rid of this financial debacle? – The members, the "small" SPÖ members, the members are to solve the SPÖ financial debacle! Häupl calculated from: Every member has to pay 750 S, then the SPÖ would have been renovated. Congratulations! Not only do we have to protect the "small" people from your burdens of recent years, but we must now even protect SPÖ members from being asked to cash out by their party. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] And we will do that too, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For example, Albert Umlauf from Marchegg, SPÖ member, who says: "First of all, the business books should be presented for insight and then those responsible for the debt should be held responsible. I can't live through my finances and have to divide my money exactly." Walter Krupan jun., a SPÖ member from Marchegg, said: "Even before the election one must have known within the party about the miserable state of the finances, but without regard to losses, one has thrown huge funds into the election campaign. Now it is the small members who are beggared for donations." And to the point, Helmut Ullrich from Niederhollabrunn, SPÖ member, said: "The elderly officials should donate because the party has made them great. It surprises me that a large party like the SPÖ, which for years has placed the Minister of Finance, does not have its own finances under control." That's the point! They have not controlled state finances in recent years. You don't have your own finances under control. They burden people – and we protect them from it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4957	For the purposes of the Rules of Procedure, according to which the current hour is used to discuss issues arising from the execution of the Federal Government, the Minister of State now comes to the attention of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to deliver an opinion which should not exceed the duration of 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e4978	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to address this question in principle, because it is also more basic, and I should like to highlight primarily the competence of the Federal Ministry of Justice on this issue. This is given only and exclusively for matters of civil and criminal law. I am not interested in all the questions relating to the party law, to other administrative instruments in this context, to the internal organisation and to the statutes of the parties. I will also ensure that the impression does not arise that the decision of independent courts is taken in any form or is pre-judicated. – It is therefore only possible to provide a general presentation and a basic legal information. A single test by the courts must always be reserved. As far as the bankruptcy of a political party is concerned, reference should be made to the fact that any natural and/or legal person may open a bankruptcy proceedings. Indebtedness and/or over-indebtedness are essential. Political parties are currently organised in Austria in principle under the Party Act. You receive legal personality by depositing the statutes. As political parties have legal personality, they are thus also bankrupt. On the issue of civil liability of institutions of political parties, I would like to point out the following: All political parties have organs through which they are represented. Because of delicate behaviour, these bodies can naturally become liable for damages, both to their own members and to third parties – and all of this especially in connection with any insolvency issues. In particular, it should be pointed out that, according to § 69 of the bankruptcy order, insolvency proceedings must be opened within 60 days of the entry into force of insolvency requirements, namely by the competent institutions. This can be addressed, among other things, by the opening of a compensatory procedure within this period. In addition, an institution of a legal person, i.e. also a political party, can realise the existence of the negligent Krida according to applicable law, § 159 StGB. In this connection, I refer to the further record of the fraudulent Krida. These two acts are regulated by § 156 StGB and § 159 StGB respectively. – Because it may be more of interest to you, I go in cursorial and only in rough ways on the state of the negligent Krida. This case-law is implemented where negligent, i.e. careless, an inability to pay by an institution is caused by the fact that, for example, the over-indebtedness by disproportionate credit use occurs, or that institution, in the knowledge or negligent ignorance of its inability to pay, e.g., reduces creditor satisfaction, e.g. by entering a new debt, by not requesting the bankruptcy in due time, and so on. Not least, I also point out that the crime of the negligent Krida is currently under discussion and may be novelled or changed in Bälde. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5019	Thank you, Minister of State. We are going into the debate. The speaking time is now 5 minutes. Mr Kostelka. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5043	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Under the Rules of Procedure, the current hour of the debate on important issues relating to the execution of the Federal Republic of Germany serves. I'm standing for the First of all, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is clearly not more up-to-date than the premise of that account for the year 1999, which my party will have to publish in a few months and which will be signed by two independent auditors. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Party Promotion Act!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know many issues that are at present, important and in the interests of the Austrian population, for example the questions of how to deal with tax increases and pension reductions or with the restriction of health services or the increase in the individual's financial contributions in the health field. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] But above all, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear: What is to be done here is nothing but an attempt at distraction from the essential questions. [[The speaker shows a graphic with the title: "The poor pay twice as much as the rich."]] Among the essential issues, for example, is the fact that people with lower and medium incomes are taxed less by the law you will decide tomorrow than is the case with top-ranking earners. You of the coalition parties are the protectors of the top earners! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Westenthaler, as young as you are in years, your concept is so ancient. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the liberals.]] They call in a hectic way "Keep the thief!" when it comes to distracting from own machinations and misservices. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We want to protect your members!]] It would be really tempting to point out that you are the party Rosenstingls that Rosenstingl was your club cashier. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a dangerous comparison!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: How much did the Rosenstingl get? Seven or eight years in prison? That can't be a comparison!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] It would be really tempting to point out that "Freedom living", the "mighty step in the housing industry", is only a few weeks ago past the edge of a bankruptcy. And it would also be tempting to point out that your fulminant social fund has been downgraded into a self-service shop for liberal officials. Your finances are highly opaque! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler! It is really to be recognized how virtuoso you are in dealing with dirt. They are the Lord of Card House scandals; Card houses that collapse as soon as a first critical view is directed at the "facts building" that you build. The Court of Auditors' report on party finance and the financing of the clubs will come into the house tomorrow. In this context, you have accused me and my group of persecuting us from the prosecutor and of having to do a criminal prosecution. – I can tell you here: The court proceedings have been filed, and the Court of Auditors will prove that everything is fine. – You, Mr Westenthaler, are the Lord of the Card House scandals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We took credit as a party. However, we have always served these loans properly and have also concluded corresponding agreements. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much percent was that?]] What you have done here today – everything under the protection of immunity – is credit damage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I asked you!]] In this context, you have claimed that Commercial Councillor Dr. Hofer is the head of the Steiermärkische Sparkasse. – He is, however, Deputy Head! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sorry!]] Director-General Kassler, a member of the ÖVP, who, by the way, has also stated that comparable loans have been granted not only to SPÖ but also to others – Mr Khol, also to your group! – and this at market conditions. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that my party has not got any better terms than other borrowers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much percent? Under what conditions?]] The current hour is being misused to discuss a question that is not being discussed. There is no really important question in this context: the dispute about the pension fund in your group, pension reform II, which can cost pensioners up to 20 percent of their pension,... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5252	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5267	... the drinking tax, ladies and gentlemen, which will make eating and staying more expensive, but the drinking will not make it cheaper. – All of this would be up-to-date questions that would really be tailor-made.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5306	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5327	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! This is an unpleasant discussion today, because we as parties are actually drawing over ourselves – and I feel that is not good. In fact, parties are the organizational pillar of parliamentary democracy and therefore indispensable for parliamentarianism. Without legal party funding, the system would be worse because the risk of funding from dark donors and thus the risk of those who donate would have an impact on politics. I therefore believe that our party spectrum with its legal party funding is a good system and that this will prevent corruption and donor influence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the constitutional necessity of the parties does not mean a persillation to push into all social areas. There is also no personal license to deal with the legally secured competences and party rights sloppy or abusively. In my view, the large debt mountain, which has been addressed here, is the result of a particularly sloppy handling of taxpayers' money. I do not allow myself to judge what the SPÖ uses its money for, but the debtor philosophy of SPÖ led to a clear abuse in dealing with party money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Like a red thread, for decades this debt-maker philosophy and the sloppy handling of money at SPÖ and in the vicinity of this party has been drawing through its political work: nationalized industry, AZ, "consum". [[Abg. Oillingers: weren't you also in the SPÖ environment in recent years?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I come from the construction industry and, as an entrepreneur, I certainly understand economic failure if – and only under this condition, it is acceptable to talk about economic failure – one is seriously trying to ward off damage. [[Abg. Schwemlein: How was the mountain law with you?]] At the moment, I do not recognise that SPÖ is trying to deal with tax money carefully – and the party finances are tax money. I quote from the magazine "Format": "The SPÖ lives constantly over its conditions." I quote from the "profile": "In the previous year alone, the Socialists spent 200 million for campaigns, 120 for those for the National Council and 80 for the EU election. The public election cost refund (a total of 90 million) did not cover even half of the expenditure." - Quote. With this behaviour, my dear colleagues from SPÖ, you do damage that affects the entire party landscape. [[Abg. Schwemlein: How did you deal with the mountain law?]] [[Abg. Eder: Rablbauer!]] They deliberately control this crash course – it forbids designations such as "negligent" or "economic failure" – and they deliberately proceed. Your colleague Rudas says "profile": "The problem is that staff and operating expenditure are higher than all revenue. Everything you make operational is already going into the minus." – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! This is intentional and no longer negligent. Therefore, it must be legitimate to ask how you want to stop this crash course.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5423	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5449	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the reference to Rosenstingl. Her party-chairing climate will be very grateful if he is compared with Rosenstingl. Rosenstingl has been sentenced and has severely damaged the FPÖ. I wouldn't say that to your party president climate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I would like to thank Mr Hofer for his advice. We will ask all the candidates who come to us and ask for help in the financing of re-indebtedness, or at all we will be looking for a way to send to Mr Hofer. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Hofer was it!]] Mr Kostelka, you said there was a problem at the current hour. You're not aware of one thing, as I mean: In Austria, there is a very high level of party funding in the order of 2.8 billion schilling. The SPÖ gets a billion, and how the SPÖ deals with the money, it's just a scandal. I will now give you some examples of this, not from the press, but from your own account report, how you act as a merchant. In 1997, the Federal Party received membership contributions of 62 million and grants from the Federal Government from the title of party financing amounting to 75 million, i.e. 137 million schilling. 122 million of these 137 million are needed to cover personnel and office costs alone. You're not even able to serve any loans. They have launched the 1997 marketing year with Ach and Krach, through a sale of shares or shares in the order of 108 million Schilling. Which other party can manipulate as you do? They simply sell any shares in the order of 108 million, but see no need to act in your areas and say, in the field of personnel or office expenses, there is no need to save any effort in the elections. No, you're dealing with the money like a merchant who's actually become a criminal offence because you're planning to continue in 1998. Of the total revenue from member contributions or party financing of 135 million, 132 million Schilling is spent only on personnel, office expenses and purchases. How do you want to serve a loan? Then go to the 1999 elections. In the 1999 elections, you know exactly that, due to the results of the elections, you can expect a refund of about 90 million schillings for both elections. They commit themselves to having used 120 million for the election campaign under the EU election or for those in the National Council election. You don't think that's human. The costs for the election campaign in the context of the National Council election or the EU election have not totaled 200 million, but more, and you know that very well. That's why there's this disaster. Other parties plan differently. Other parties plan in such a way that they set out a plan of how much the election campaign may cost. They say: I have saved the amount X, I will receive the amount Y from the electoral cost refund. So you can calculate the room in which you can move as a decent merchant. With good planning, you can quickly repay short-term recorded funds. – What you have done is really negligent and responsible for nothing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But you go so far in this area that you have the courage to return to the next bank a loan in the order of 60 million schilling at a time when you have 400 million schilling debts and do not know how to repay the loans. You're immersing from one negligence into the other. That is exactly what the Austrians are interested in. And that's exactly what your party members are interested in, at your party meeting, which will take place in the next few days. There you want to start a beggar action, increase membership contributions or get contributions from people to renovate the finances. But on the other hand, you have a party organization and a party apparatus where the Federal Party alone devours 100 million schilling a year. How would you argue about this before your members? In the case of problems we had in Lower Austria, we have done differently. We have done so that first of all the mandates have had a corresponding contribution to make, and second, we have pressed down the costs in Lower Austria so that these liabilities...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5490	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5511	... that has put us in Rosenstingl, can be repaid in the medium term. Only when this is done can you track new ideas again and re-acquire money or start actions. But first of all, sparness is announced and not prassery, as is your custom.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5542	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5563	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is indeed a serious issue, considering that parliamentary democracy, like the Austrian democratic system, certainly needs organisations such as parties. Parties need funding. And the question is, where the money comes from, less how it is used. For this, each party essentially has to account for itself. There are internal controls for this. If these fail, there's a problem. I do not want to object at all to any argument put forward against the SPÖ. Very right! The question is, however, to be extended in the actual sense: Who's financing who here? Is it true that in Austria the parties to democratic consensus find political debates, and then the economic system finds itself in any framework legislation? I feel more like it is with us that certain banks hold certain parties. How else can these high loans be explained to the Social Democratic Party on these terms? In fact, this is in need of information. The point is, however, that this question is much more important. I cannot spare you, Mrs Fekter, that we are also dealing with the ÖVP. It's about revenue as a whole. It is not only a question of looking at loans, it is also a question of how the parties generally finance themselves. There is a need to explain your group or the liberals. And we should actually turn to this topic, the subject of the principle of glass checkouts, instead of presenting this sad spectacle here, which reads: Here are the one, the red rulers and bankers who have produced anything, accused of those in whom even the smallest Hendlgauners can cause the largest millions of scandals. It is about transparency, and it is about the fact that any revenue that a party receives is also declared. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is some need for explanation at the ÖVP. I would just like to give a few brief examples to make it clear what it is all about. The Party Act in Austria does not require all donations to be made. It even favours states as they rule in Germany. The Helmut Kohl system is, so to speak, even legitimised in a party. Foundations and funds do not have to declare the donations, nor do the parties have to declare the donations. This is actually a serious mistake in the law that belongs to rehabilitated. There have been attempts to do so several times. For years, the Green Group has tabled proposals aimed at amending the Party Law on this point, and it has always been rejected by the three other political groups. That's actually the unfortunate one. We will make this request again this spring. Then it will be clear who really is for transparency. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They follow the principle of darkness financing. On the other hand, we follow the principle of the glass party funds. That is why we should take care of this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Who is the Lord Dark?]] Mr. Drinkl! Hurts You're not hysterical in between! In fact, it is about the ÖVP being unable to explain the origin of 100 million schillings. The ID cards in the "Wiener Zeitung" do not agree with what has been published in other declarations of your party. When Mr Pilz has fully competently held here that the origin of 90 million schillings in your party is in need of information, you have, of course, rejected a corresponding request for the setting up of an investigation committee. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That doesn't mean that's true what the fungus says!]] Easy to do, that's your parole. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The hand that feeds the ÖVP!]] The Greens will disclose all revenue. From today on the Internet it can be read how high our annual revenue and debt are: 2.3 million. We're debt-free at the end of the year. You should all follow this principle. We do not want to rely on this voluntaryity at all, but it belongs precisely to this law changed. We will see this spring how you will behave in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen! Democracy needs a number of ingredients. At any rate, it needs a corresponding attitude, but it also needs transparency and control. We should all pay attention to the attitude, since we have a problem in recent times. But as far as transparency is concerned, you should...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5630	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5652	... give a back. If you continue to refuse transparency, you can take poison that the Greens will continue to oppose consistent control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5681	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5702	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the liberals! Anyone who is quite aware of the facts is quite familiar with it, knows that this present hour, as you have done today, is an abuse of this parliamentary means and, in fact, is nothing but a credit damage and a dungy campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5729	Deputies! Please pay attention to terminology!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5744	I really find it embarrassing that you, as a government party, are resorting to such a means. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing to beautify: The financial situation is not satisfactory. That's what everyone says. It is only the question of how we deal with this situation. And you know very well – and that's what I blame you – that there will be an accountable report in two days, which has been verified by business loyals. You will see that this report – but perhaps throw it off – of economic fidelity. They predominate this economic fidelity as members of a professional profession that they are caught – get the testat. If you let the Minister speak here before about insolvency and criminal implications, then this is quite simply a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How high are the debts?]] It's just a scandal if you mix one with another. It's quite unbearable. We also know what you want to do with that, a distraction. The Skurrile is only that the ÖVP – and the discussion is still open, ladies and gentlemen – is suspected to have received a party financing of 100 million schilling – there is an investigation committee in Germany dealing with the overall issue of financing from arms procurement – here, explains very much how objectionable and how terrible all this is; also the FPÖ, the only party that has recently been seen on criminal law by Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How high are the SPÖ debt: 500 million? 400 million?]] Rosenstingl was not only the club secretary, but Rosenstingl was responsible for the entire funding of the FPÖ and would probably now also be Finance Minister if this had not been done before. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He wasn't a club secretary!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Get to the point: How high are the debts?]] So the fact that you produce yourself here and make great explanations before you know all the documents and read the account report is a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The poor climate! Compare climate already with Rosenstingl!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How will you cancel the debt?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How high are the debts now, Mr. Colleague? - Over 100 million? 600 million?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know and also you know what you want to distract from, and the people also know what is to be diverted from this. What we are experiencing lately is a massive change in the society of this country, which the voters would not have expected and which is never in line with what you have announced. It is a purely change in society within the meaning of the ÖVP, not in the sense of what FPÖ has said in the context of the election campaign. That's what the "little" people know. And that is why you do not need to abuse this parliamentary instrument and do something different. It is nothing but that you are here converting a society with social rights into a bitter society. We have already seen what you want to do: increase the charges for postal shipping, social scrapping, a massive redistribution from bottom to top, ladies and gentlemen, in a dimension that will only become fully effective and all become known in the next few years. You have deleted promotions, you have discriminated against the long-term unemployed, and you ultimately make the conversion so that you make available funds to those organizations that are willing to you and the others no longer. That is the way you are doing here, ladies and gentlemen. And that's the real scandal! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How will you cancel the debt? How will you ward off the Krida? Talk about it!]] That is why I also understand that you want to divert from it, because you have to be afraid of it because the objective discussion is certainly not Your strength is because with these arguments, with what you, Mr Khol, are implementing here, you cannot really giant. Mr Khol, because you are constantly yelling in between, I would like to say on this occasion one more thing about the repressive nature and procedure of this government. You, Mr Khol, have recently called me personally in Parliament and informed me that I can continue to maintain my factual arguments in the various committees – you have literally said you can continue to think about me – but you then, after you have made some statements, put forward a complaint. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is scandalous. And if you, who can certainly defend yourself very well, threaten such a complaint, I would like to know what you want to do in all those areas, in the whole area of the ÖIAG, where you are pursuing a staff policy that is scandalous to those who cannot defend themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're going to fight it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We'll give you the help you're threatening with repression. You must take note of the following: Arrogance and elbows alone are a little too little for a government. What she needs is format.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5893	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5908	But you lack that, and that is the real damage to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5938	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e5960	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim, I understand that you are doing a little bit of an excitement here at the speaker's desk. Red numbers were never "in". In the past, the accountants wrote the records red so that everyone can recognize the dangers. This is a little different at the SPÖ. High officials are alleged not to know to this day the exact amount of debt. But one thing is clear: The debt grew from day to day, and the debt mountain rose from day to day. Whether it's 300, 400 or 500 million Schilling debt you have: The fact is that there is over-indebtedness within the meaning of the relevant legal provisions. You have to have format, says Mr Jarolim. Yes, I do. If you can believe the "format", you have a fortune of 195 million. If you have 300 million schilling debts, you are overdebted with about 70 percent. I therefore in no way envy the new party chairman of the SPÖ. Will he be able to perform his role as mass manager in the coming months and years as well? For who will be able to repay these debts as well? A little reminds me of the situation before budget creation, of Mr Edlinger's budget figures, where the debt mountain also increased on a daily basis. [[Abg. Edlinger: Is not true!]] How are you doing, Mr. Edlinger? Remember the story with the dog and the sausage? In the present situation, I think you'd be glad if someone gave your dog a sausage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm not sure if your party could afford a dog in the current situation. But the SPÖ's designated party president immediately knows how to deal with the matter. ==References====External links== April out: "The government continues its slumping course against workers and consumers." – The reader is now wondering what this scrupulous course is in. "Subtitle: Party finances: Good and constructive conversations..." Light in the dark brings the "Wiener Zeitung" from the next day: "Gusenbauer asks party members for donations." This is the scrapping action of the new time! - I congratulate you very much. I mean, in these circumstances – the members are shrunk, the money is spent with full hands – one will have to define the term "red numbers". Red numbers are those written by Reds or not written in this case. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Justice has made it clear that parties are legal persons and that those responsible are liable for civil law and criminal law. The person responsible: Who were or are the responsible in the SPÖ? – This is once Mr. Ex-Bundeskanzler Viktor Klima, for whom it should have been honourable to set up one's own finances as the former head of a large Austrian company. He was also the one who did not give us the honour in the House to say goodbye as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. In these circumstances, I well understand that Mr Klima cannot take over the SPÖ's honorary chairmanship, ladies and gentlemen. I read in the "Format", Mr. Ex-Bundeskanzler Klima does not feel responsible for the debts of SPÖ because his predecessor left him 367 million schilling in debt. One must have format, says Mr Jarolim. Yes, you have to. Vrannitzky is the former SPÖ chairman, ladies and gentlemen, who is currently running judicial pre-examinations for alleged free flights. You have to keep him to good, he meant it well. He wanted to bring foreign sponsors to Austria to save his own party from financial burdens. He did. I just hope he can make it clear what these flights actually did. I like the song of Reinhard May: Over the clouds, freedom must be limitless, and everything that seems great and important is suddenly empty and small. – All this has not happened for nothing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is certain: If these flights have actually been made for good reason, they should have been carried out in the public interest, they should be found in the Federal Chancellery Board, otherwise, as has been said, they are at least committed to saving the SPÖ a greater deficit. In summary, it must be said: Who is not able to...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6000	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6016	... to keep your own things in order, it is also not in a position to lead the Republic of Austria in a leading position. – Now you know the answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6046	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. He's got the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6067	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! During this debate, I got the following impression: If you are a socialist in Austria today, it is not really good, it is really poor, because, like otherwise, it would be to explain – perhaps one remembers – that not too long ago it was announced from a prominent social democratic mouth, there are three unconnectable pillars of socialism in Austria, the Social Democratic Party, the trade union and the "consumer". [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: "Consumer"!]] Where the "consumer" is, we already know that we have persecuted it; almost we had already forgotten it. I do not want to say now that the Social Democratic Party will go an insolvency course, certainly not, but it is Menetkel, which must not be overlooked. And a building that rests only on one pillar, if only the union union remains, is already a rather lavish thing. But that's not all. I'm certainly not the ex-Bundeskanzler's ex-Bundeskanzler's ex-Bundeskanzler's friend, but I think he didn't deserve to have the social-democratic judge in his speech hit a mental and political bridge by Peter Rosenstingl, who just got seven years, though not legally, to climate. He really didn't deserve that, I have to say. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He didn't deserve that!]] The thought building underlying these comparisons should be questioned. It was also the talk of the bitter society. Shall I tell you what this is, ladies and gentlemen? – The "Small Newspaper" says about the current process of Austria’s social democrats and functionaries not even as small a donation to read the following: If you donate more than 1,000 schillings, you will receive a video "30 years in government responsibility", with speech excerpts by Kreisky, Vranitzky, Sinowatz, Klima und Gusenbauer. - Quote. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But the wallets will open up that you look just like that, a prominent board member jokes. [[Renewal hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – This is the bitter society, and that is also the re-distribution from bottom to top quoted by my previous speakers, namely from the "small" member in the back valley to the party case at the top, where one obviously cannot spend enough money at all. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] But I am not worried about the Social Democratic Party, nor about its top representatives. Whoever is still a member of the party in the back valley is ultimately to blame himself. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is anyone there?]] I'm more concerned about those who might come up with the idea of being so bad because of thoughtlessness – I don't want to accept anything else – and the group that is so bad, on very favourable conditions that hardly anyone else can get to get credit at a high level. There is a criminal provision which does not concern the Social Democratic Party, but perhaps one or the other that wants to show itself to be particularly sensitive to it, and that is the provision of the § 153 Criminal Code: Infidelity. It's not a long fix. I can therefore read them out without risking you to be bored: "The power given to him by law, by law or by law or by legal action to possess foreign assets" - i.e., a bank director, for example, or a deputy bank director - "or "to commit another, knowingly abused and thereby to add an asset to the other is to be punished with...." – That is to say, who today has the power granted by legal transactions, such as a leading board member of a bank, to own the bank’s assets and to meet a borrower in a way that is quite exceptional, thereby damaging the bank’s assets, and it could be that evil-doers come to the idea of saying that was unfaithful to the criminal code. 3.75% I don't get that easy. I could imagine that if we all tried to get a credit at this level, it wouldn't be easy. But that's how it's when someone gets into debt. This can happen to anyone, the debts themselves are only less dangerous. It is dangerous to try to repair, i.e. if you try to receive more loans, if you try to get into debt – that is a magic word in this context – then it becomes dangerous, because then this book is generally responsible. I am not warning you now, I warn all those who want to be generous and understanding beyond the limits of the granted person. That's what you actually had to say.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6158	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6187	As long as I do not have to buy a video on which you, Mr Westenthaler, would like to give me the pleasure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You already have it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vanner! Let us leave the church in the village, or let me leave the "blue hendl" in the griller. It should be noted that a single liberal hendlbrater has succeeded in causing more damage than the SPÖ has accumulated in debt over the last 30 years. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Right! He's already sitting!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: colleague! That's why he's in prison!]] This does not excuse what happened in the field of SPÖ, but it already indicates that we have to deal with two completely different events. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] The key to this has been provided to us by Mr Kostelka with his remarkable sentence on the question of why the Styrian SPÖ had received particularly good conditions, namely 3.75 percent interest rate, for a loan. The answer to Kostelkas was: Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you've got the same conditions. We all get the same conditions. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We have no loans! That's the difference!]] And that's it. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: We have deposits! That's for the deposits!]] This is the problem in the Austrian system that the red bank calculates red 3.75 percent, and the black bank black calculates 3.75 percent, and part of the banks is red-black. That's why you always know as well as the conditions of each other. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the Austrian system, that's nothing new. The Freedom Party had a problem in the past: She was not part of this system and therefore had to avoid the risky business of hendlbrottery. Well, that's the way it is. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] What happens when freeman frys financed chickens in a large style from housing funds, we know in length. At the time, a party of the "spoken and discreet" became a party of the departed and refugees. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It has such a beard!]] Now the FPÖ is obviously different. I read the first weeks of government so that the greatest effort is not to protect the "small" people – I still care – but to take as quickly as possible those positions that you also get loans to 3.75 percent interest. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There you have to go to Mr Hofer!]] What has it been about in the last two months? – To make red posts blue, that was the government of the liberals in recent weeks and months. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Westenthaler! Now I'm telling you an experience I had on the street. If I go in Vienna or in Styria on the street, people don't say to me: For God's sake, Dr. Pilz, now you have to do something! I am concerned about the party finances of the SPÖ. Please take a parliamentary initiative! - No, people are right to say: This is the home-made problem of the SPÖ, and if it does not deal with these problems, it will see for herself. This is not the problem of the Austrian National Council. This is her problem, and she herself is guilty, and she will have to make this clear to her members. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Defense of the SPÖ!]] People are asking me something completely different. They ask: Deputies! Why should patients suddenly pay for the artificial defects of the doctors? Deputies! Why should sick people be forced to continue working in this Republic for the first time? Deputies! Why should older people who have partially ruined their health be sent to unemployment to wait for the minimum pension? – These are the questions that move people. That's what it's all about! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] To set up a spectacle here and act as if the finances of a party were the biggest problem, Mr Westenthaler, in times of a unique wave of burden directed against the smallest of this republic – perhaps the party will be done or not – is that you did not understand the people of that republic and their concerns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6348	I declare the current hour ended. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6369	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6574	In addition, I also announce that the Third Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of urgent requests
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6596	Deputies Dr. Khol, Mag. Before entering the agenda, Schweitzer and Comrades requested the self-employed motion 132/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr. Khol, Mag. Wet and comrades on consensus in red and white red are urgently to be treated. In the same way, before entering the agenda, MEPs Dr Gusenbauer and Comrades asked for urgent consideration of the self-employed motion 133/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr Gusenbauer and Comrades concerning the joint action of all the parties represented in the National Council to terminate the measures taken by the 14 EU Member States. Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, only one urgent request is possible. It is therefore necessary to decide which request to call. On the basis of Article 57b of the Rules of Procedure, the urgent request of Deputies Dr. Khol, Mag. Schweitzer at 3 p.m. for the trial. Another urgent request cannot be called. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 347/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6634	I would also like to say that, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, I have a brief debate on the reply to question No. 332/J by Mr Hostasch and Mr Comrades concerning massive deterioration for workers, pensioners and social weak people by the FPÖVP tax package in the field of pensions and legal health insurance by the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations. Since a urgent request will be under negotiation for today's meeting, this brief debate will take place following the debate on the urgent request. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6658	As far as the agenda is concerned, I would like to sum up the debate on points 2 and 3 of the agenda. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed in this way, summarizing points 2 and 3. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6688	In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 10 "Vienna hours" was envisaged, resulting in the following speaking times in the case of approval by the National Council: SPÖ 195 minutes, liberals and ÖVP per 145 minutes as well as green 115 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I therefore ask: Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. This means that this day-block speaking time and the distribution of the speaking time is so decided. 1. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection (1/70 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6721	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I do not have a desire for oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mrs Prammer. The legal speaking time is 20 minutes, the voluntary speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6748	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It could have been so beautiful during the summer and after the summer of 1999 – it was pre-election time – because in addition to the elections, a popular desire, namely a family-popular desire, a party or even two particular parties could have voted. Both have not gone up, ladies and gentlemen. There is a family popular desire that has received some 180 000 votes. I would just like to remind you that the women's popular desire from 1997 has received more than three times as many signatures. Now I wonder how both fit together. In the case of the women's people's desire, there has been great efforts at that time to continue to discuss because many points are long and long-term and could not be completed with a final report. There was no referral back to committee at that time. Today, although the government parties agree on their family policy, an interim report will be returned, and the whole family desire will be referred back to the Family Committee. I really wonder how there is, where both are so agreed! Or are they not the two parties? Are they perhaps not so united in their family policy objectives? – If we read the newspapers and carefully track the news, then there are indeed doubts that this oneness exists. The interview in today's edition of the "Standard" with Finance Minister Grasser was already very remarkable. On the question of the model to which he tends in connection with family promotion, namely also with regard to the abolition of the ceiling, he said in concrete terms: I would like to put this straight away, and this government template will never find my approval, which is totally counterproductive. I'm just as little in favour of getting any kind of care allowance for every child. That's not what I'm for. It must be seen that those who have real social problems receive social benefits. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This has, of course, been demented by Minister Sickl today. The debate between the two government parties on family benefits will continue to be exciting. For the benefit that there will no longer be, which will be abolished and replaced by a family benefit with the casting pot, ladies and gentlemen. This money was a very essential factor and an essential pillar in women's policy, but also in family policy, because it is an insurance benefit – now you have to say: it was. From the point of view of women, from the point of view of labour market policy and social policy, this money was necessary in order to have a substitute for lost income, if one receives children and therefore a vocational interruption. They break all these principles! Karenzgeld – no longer substitutes for lost income. You have never found it worth discussing, ladies and gentlemen, how reasonable the proposal would be to introduce an income-related pension fund. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have thus also taken the safety of many families, especially many women, many future mothers, to make their decision in fact, for a child, ladies and gentlemen. This has to be clearly established once again. On the subject of better compatibility of family and profession: This is also a very popular chapter of the ÖVP and the Freeman. This togetherness of family and profession has become a fig leaf. You might be wrong in the public. Perhaps there are young women who really want this compatibility of work and family. They are talking about freedom of choice and do not notice that freedom of choice is in reality a blow to the face of women. What freedom of choice do you think? Where is the freedom of choice when childcare facilities are missing, Ladies and gentlemen? What freedom of choice do you think if the opening hours in child care facilities are not exactly in the country when they are already locked up at 11.30 a.m., so that even part-time employment cannot be started, because they automatically force women to stay at home? What freedom of choice do you think if family-anti-family working hours are still at the centre? – You are not willing to make the legal claims in terms of part-time! [[Abg. Gaugg: I have only one question: They were women's ministers! What have you done in the last four years to make it better? That's a list of failures! You are responsible – and exclusively you!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Where have your initiatives been? [[Abg. Gaugg: The kindergarten opening times – highly interesting! The kindergarten opening times – you would have had four years!]] This is a very interesting debate here in the House. Where are the majority relationships in this House? – This is a very simple question, and there is a very simple answer to this question. Should I tell you a little story? – Look You agreed to the measures of social democracy when there was an absolute majority in this House! At that time, women's policy and family policy had been adopted. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In this area, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution of this majority relationship has only gone a little further. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the topic Childcare, Childcare Check. We all don't know what it's supposed to be like or what it's supposed to be like. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The main thing is that it's coming!]] I just know what Jörg Haider says. Jörg Haider made a clear statement. I'd like to quote him: You have to think about it, he says that the state also saves a lot of money with this babysitting check on the other hand. He saves money for child care facilities which are not yet available but which are otherwise to be created, but which would only be financed in the next few years, and he saves money for the unemployed. It's as simple as that: We send the women home, we don't need babysitting facilities, we give them a little pocket money, and what follows later is their private affairs and no longer the task of the state. It is known what you want, and it is known what you think, namely that working mothers are not at the centre of your interest and that working mothers today – including at the beginning of a new century – are still happy to be presented as raven mothers. Working mothers are not raven mothers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are a few comments in the Committee's statement on what would be necessary in connection with the compatibility of work and family. Nothing specific is behind it. No one passage describes where your initiatives would actually lie and lie in the future. Protection against sects and violence is a point of popular desire – certainly important and not enough to take seriously. But I also lack further explanations in your statement. Where, then, are the initiatives, the developments in protection against violence in families where unfortunately most violence takes place? In this respect, we all have to take major initiatives together, with a view to developing intervention agencies, developing and developing the law on the protection of violence and much more. Ladies and gentlemen! The single-schoolers don't hear from you at all. Single parents are obviously guilty of their miscarriage themselves. Single women are not mentioned by you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Zierler referred to the issue in the Committee Single parents did not belong to the Family Committee, but belonged exclusively, if at all, to the Women's or Equal Treatment Committee. That's all that says anyway. Under the rule, I can only say: Money for tax gifts You have rich and entrepreneurs, but you have nothing left for women's promotion and childcare facilities, which must and should be the basis for a good family policy. This is obviously your new women's policy, which is a fall back to the age of family politics. But I can assure you that the young women in Austria will not be pushed back. They will insist on putting family and profession into a hat. They won't give up the profession, they'll both want to. I just hope that the women in Austria will be strong enough to keep this in mind again and again.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6845	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6866	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy in Austria is currently directly linked to the government agreement of ÖVP and FPÖ, but also directly related to the family-popular desire, initiated by the Austrian Family Federation. The family-popular desire is well developed into one of the most successful popular desires in history. In this regard, I would like to contradict Mrs Prammer for the fact that the demands have been made, which have also been made by the government parties, and are now being implemented step by step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to express my thanks and thanks to the initiators of this popular desire, but also to the officials who have helped us in the committee and have some work ahead, especially in the legal field. We worked constructively and responsibly with those responsible for family-population. This is the right way for improving Austrian families. From a family policy point of view, all of the following measures are a support package, which, as I have already mentioned, should now be implemented in stages. On the basis of the complexity of the subject area and of the need to be able to draw up an overall package, which includes the necessary changes in the laws of different legal areas, on this matter, the presentation must be referred back to the Family Committee, as we do not want to achieve the best for our families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For this reason, it is not only in family law, but also in labour and social law that some serious changes are needed – as a result of the decoupling of the childcare allowance alone, from an insurance benefit, to an actual family benefit. Even if, according to its minority report, the SPÖ cannot recognise in these measures any contribution to improving the situation for children, women and families, I would like to make it quite clear that: The Austrian People's Party with Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel was at the forefront and is a party for which the interests of the families in Austria are very prominent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The ÖVP has forced these demands, such as the karenz money for all, not only in the election campaign, but will also implement them together with the FPÖ, with the support of all ministers. With the support of all ministers, we will work out a model that we have forced and that we think it is the best for families, for students, for students, for farmers and for all who do not yet have the full right to care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: The claim for karenz money has been abolished in your model!]] As set out in the Government Agreement – Mrs Colleague, I would ask you to read the Government Convention – we want to introduce and force a corresponding freedom of choice for mothers and fathers. Of course, it is also about the choice of whether both partners combine work and family at the same time or whether one of the two devotes itself for a certain period of time exclusively to the family. Our attention is also paid to the fathers who are to be more involved in family work than before. This will not be possible by law alone, but I believe that young people know very well how important a common family work is. Through the childcare allowance for all as a pure family benefit, all parents receive a completely new freedom of choice in the design of life. [[Abg. May. Prammer: That's incredible!]] – It is not "unbelievable", but it is crediblely true! We were able to reach an increase in family allowances to 13 billion Schilling for this extension of the care allowance; up until now it was only 8 billion Schilling. If one compares this with the government programme of SPÖ and ÖVP, one finds that the SPÖ had only 2 billion shilling left for the families, and that must be said! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If Mrs Prammer criticises the redistribution of funds in a wrong direction, because women today want to be active despite the family, then I can only say that we are allowing freedom of choice through this new model. I am also convinced and know from experience that the young women do not need to be led to the parties' gang, but they know very well what they want and what they can do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, the following comments were made: According to family report, 90 percent of young families in Austria want to take care of the care themselves by the third year of their life. We know that it's not always that way. We know that there are single parents, and that they are particularly supported, we know too. But I think that also a working partnership, a functioning family belongs to support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another quantum leap in the Austrian family policy is the pensionable bill of child rearing times. In order to ensure this calculation as a pension-based contribution period, it will now be until 18. Month of life of the child transferred an amount of 250 S per month to pension insurance. [[Abg. May. Prammer: If someone is employed, does he need to pay only 250 s?]] It must be said that FLAF has already been 22 percent – that is 8.2 billion schilling – as The pension scheme has been compensated for by the transfer of compensation to the pension system and the increase in the amount of the pension, an additional and important pension scheme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For a better compatibility of family and work, however, it is also crucial that parents can be sure that their children have good out-of-home care, and that is what we want to promote. Therefore, we are committed to developing high-quality child care facilities, whereby opening hours must also allow the compatibility of family and work. We know that we do not prevent anything, we force it, we cooperate in this respect with the authorities responsible for childcare. I am thinking not only of public childcare facilities, but, of course, also of farm kindergartens, of individual care and, in particular, of day mothers, which are necessary for the better compatibility of family and work. This also includes a long-standing desire from the ÖVP women, namely the tax deductibility of the costs of childcare as well as the expansion of non-profit service centres – called home service agencies – in order to carry out these qualified personnel and family tasks. However, since child care is mainly country competence, we also need to develop concepts with those responsible in the countries with regard to opening hours in order to make work and family compatibility possible. Now to re-entry: In particular, re-entry needs to be facilitated by specific support measures for women and men in the "family phase". The key qualifications acquired in the karenz age are to be recognised and used as potential for the profession or for re-entry into the profession. Therefore, together with the other government party, we call on the Austrian People's Party to evaluate, for example, the re-entry aid and other measures created for this purpose, and to reorganise it to provide effective support for those who, after the "family phase", re-enter into the work process. It is also important to us that companies that take up women at home after a longer period of family work are exempt from the entrepreneurship contribution to health insurance for at least one year. It would also be important for companies to be able to keep newly taken-up new entrants a year longer by asserting a tax-free amount. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ calls for the right of qualified care for each child in its minority report. We do more, because we enable and implement through the childcare allowance our measures and a really better reconciliation of work and family. In the same way, the measures to harmonise the work and family must be taken. So you see, we have done good work together and will continue to do so. We are too little in the way of rejection reflections alone. We're working too. In this sense, I hope that the family-popular desire will be implemented step by step.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e6992	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7013	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It's almost incredible what you can hear here in the course of just a few speeches. The debate in the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, was as incredible as what Mrs Steibl has already announced here on new gifts for companies who have mercy on the re-entry women. It was really incredible! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: It is a reactionary government!]] Representatives of government parties shall act and shall declare themselves stiff and firm: Of course, all women, or all persons who now claim the leave or child care period, are insured against unemployment during this period and thereby acquire entitlements from unemployment insurance. But when I told Mr Bartenstein on the other committee, he became pretty pale. That is the way it is, ladies and gentlemen, especially the colleagues from the Freedom Party. That is not the case, but there is a clear edition. You have to imagine what a program you really have! As Mrs Steibl can tell you so loosely and fluffily about the return for women, you really have to imagine what you are planning: [[Abg. Steibl: This is the truth!]] The emergency aid shall be deleted and the emergency aid deleted. [[Abg. Steibl: Who says that?]] There must also be no entitlement to unemployment benefit as a whole due to child care. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true at all! Green slogans that don't vote!]] That's your program, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Steibl: Where's that?]] This is a brutal exit program for all women who have actually come across your face with child care money. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl:... to tell the families such untruths! That's not true!]] I would like to read to you a broadcast from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mrs Steibl, a reply to Mr Buchinger, who said that it might result in additional costs because women claim emergency aid or unemployment benefit. To this end, the Ministry of Economic Affairs says in an APA issue: There will not be any additional costs, as this has been feared today in the "Morgenjournal" AMS chief Herbert Buchinger. As part of the legal transformation of the current care scheme into a childcare allowance for all – "precaution" is then called! – ensuring that no additional reference to unemployment benefit is made. – That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Sozialminister! If we are already presenting the inconsistencies and disbeliefs of this childcare allowance: You should let your statement, which I heard today in the "Morgenjournal" with quite apprehension, go through the head again. Faith Do you really think that women who have to go to work during the childcare period because they have no income except for their 6 000 s are rich, as you have said, so that they can be taken away from child care because they are above the limit? What remains then of your childcare allowance for all? So, obviously, according to what you said in the "Morgenjournal" today, there is no childcare allowance for all, because there is no child care allowance for women who must also be employed during care periods or child care periods, then if their income is above the amount of earnings. This means for women in work: no child care allowance for all. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The karenz money is not paid either...!]] But she's not worried! I know why: As farmers' representatives, they know that farmers have more income-building opportunities. It is so, even for self-employed. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Your colleague Pirklhuber claims something else!]] Therefore, it will be farmers or self-employed even if they earn a lot – and you are certainly not a small farmer, I would claim once... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 12,5 hectares has my property!]] Mr Schwarzenberger, yet You're not a little farmer, are you? Even if the farm is not so large – but the income will already carry it. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Maybe he's a social assistance worker, Mr. Schwarzenberger!]] There is the possibility, as is now planned, that farmers, self-employed and commercial men can claim a third year in the field of child care. You know that, too. This possibility does not exist for the self-employed, because they only have the opportunity to work or to get childcare money. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The income limit is for self-employed...!]] This gives you the first time you have a privilege of certain forms of income! Not only do you take away something from women, not only that you remove the unemployment benefit, the emergency aid, the special emergency aid, not only that you want to take out women who are working at work when they are above the pay limit of Mrs. Sickl and therefore, according to Mrs. Sickl, are considered to be rich at all from the childcare allowance for "all" – under quotation marks – you also create new categories: two years for the unemployed and three years for those who can judge it. Thank you! Thank you, ÖVP and FPÖ, thank you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is really a social policy "result" that you have achieved! Let's go on: What to Create You still? – If I take what the Federal Minister has said today for beard coin, then that means: in the future no part-time leave! In the future, there will be no part-time leave, because the women who work part-time and do not have to work for the bet that Mrs Sozialminister might imagine to be poverty, but perhaps even earn 10 000 S or 15 000 S from part-time work – which, according to Mrs Sozialminister, I would assume – I would lose the right to the allowance. They are above the limit of merit. Have you thought about that? We were in committee against referral back. You're supposed to leave here with your election promises that you've preached for months. So simple, easy and fluffy it goes: three years, yes, we have the money and we like to pass it on. You're supposed to be accountable here, but you can't account! Mr Grasser tells something different from Mrs Sickl, Mrs Steibl tells something different from Mr Grasser, and the liberal and ÖVP members in the committee know nothing. They are happy when they hear your keywords – child care money for everyone – although it is already clear: This does not get all of them and especially not professionals! Imagine that! Where, then, are the representatives of the "little" people who cry out against the fact that the "small" people who have to go to work don't get it when they're above the limit of self-deserving? Where are they? Where do they open their mouths and say: No, not with us, we can't take something away from them and we can't resist it! Where do they state that there is no childcare allowance for all, as the Federal Minister has said today? I would have much to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, but now I'm just telling you the following: We were in the committee against referral because you should comment here. But after the opinions you have given to the public in the last few days – the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Social Affairs, your Members in the Committees and here outside the Pult – I must say: The referral would be more than justified. But in fact, I would prefer a political reference from your places here in the house at the next elections, for the broken promises, because you are obviously not even able to count from A to B!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7198	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. The clock is set to 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7219	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to try, after all, to stick to my concept, even though the temptation to answer it is very great. [[Abg. Oils: Yeah, that wouldn't be bad! The Minister for Social Affairs can answer you!]] The year 1999 was a big election year, Mr. Oellinger and Mrs. Prammer, and in addition to the various elections there was also a family popular desire – and this in the pre-election period, as you have rightly said. I do not see the reason for the not so successful participation in the family popular desire in the fact that the topics had not voted, but it was the time for this to be a rather unfavorable one. I prove to you my thesis in so far as it is claimed that one of the success points of the Freedom Party, both in the country elections and in the national elections, was the one that we called for the child care check. Every family politician who has been involved in the family popular desire must be aware that the childcare allowance required in it is the first step towards the childcare check. [[Abg. Oils: To chaos!]] "Child care allowance", which is as a word, as a formulation not so powerful. Since there is today a car company that already advertises with the children's check, I believe that my argumentation is really consistent in the direction. In addition, in a divergent opinion, the representatives of the People's Desire explicitly note that there has been a very encouraging outcome in the deliberations, with probably sensational improvements for the Austrian families, I must say: This is a response to a popular desire, as it has shown never been in this Republic in the last ten years. [[Abg. Oellinger: These are ÖVP-functionaries! These are ÖVP organizations!]] In this context, I would also like to refer to the women's desire, Mrs Prammer, which you are probably dealing with immediately, but which you have scrambled down. This is also one of the reasons why we want to continue and talk in detail about the complex issue of family-population. We also find the opinion of the Plenipotentiaries very interesting. In our view, these are not so many deviations, but useful additions, which I believe should be discussed in just as detailed a way in the future. Whether this is the EU directive on violence in the media, whether there should be more transparency in the sects, or whether one might think of reducing labour costs in part-time jobs – all these are things that are absolutely questionable. Because of this complexity, I find a referral to the Family Committee very useful. If you, Mrs Prammer, want to see a dissension between the government parties, that is simply not true. There is agreement in the government parties that we want to deal with and discuss these family policy issues in detail – and this also goes towards colleagues Ollinger, who are now no longer here. I am also not very happy about what has been done through the press today, in the "standard" and what Mrs. Sickl has said about it – above all about how it is interpreted now – but would like to say one thing: It was more often not the position of a finance minister to pursue family policy. This has always been the case in recent years that SPÖ finance ministers have acted against family politicians, including those of the government parties. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: School-free ride!]] That's nothing new at all. But it is understandable that one wants to pour oil into the fire from the sides of the opposition. It is easier to make demands in the opposition – as is seen in the opinion of SPÖ delegates in the minority report – if you can be sure that you do not need to implement them in the next few years. For the SPÖ would have had many, many years of time and opportunity to implement what is now required in the minority report. - She didn't do it. Otherwise, the new government: We liberals, together with the ÖVP, have demonstrated in a few months how quickly we can implement political demands. The government parties agree. I think it is in favour of a sensible family policy in the coming years that this unity is the better way than it was in the past. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My previous speaker, Mrs Ridi Steibl, has already referred to the themes of family popular desire. I do not want to bore you; above all, this area is so complex that you should not repeat it all. But, Mrs Prammer, the cornerstones are stunned and clearly held. We're going to stick to these key points, I can assure you. If, for example, the minority report calls for the FLAF funds to be used for infrastructure, if we call for the extension of the retention period after the karenz period, the right to a kindergarten or a better partnership allocation, I say: All these key points are included in our Committee statement. They simply don't want to take note of them. I have to ask you again, Mrs Prammer: Why have you not implemented these demands, which you now issue with so much self-understanding of this pult? – In connection with the active mothers, you used the term "rabenmütter" – I would never have done so. You did that, Mrs Prammer! One thing is certain, however, and I'm sure: Especially these young mothers you are talking about will in future feel the positive effects of our family package. Then you will be in the rain with your statements! One thing is as clear as it is: These young mothers, in particular, will notice that she will in any case be able to earn more than she has been, in any case, from time to time, or in height, just your active mothers, Mrs. Prammer! Finally, I would like to make the request for referral back: Request from Members of Haller, Steibl and colleagues on the referral of the report of the Family Committee (70 of the Supplements) to the Family Committee on family desires (1 of the Supplements) pursuant to § 53 para. 6 GOOD The Members of Parliament who have been signed shall, in accordance with Article 53, par. 6 GOG: The National Council wants to decide: According to § 53 para. 6 GOG is requested to refer the report of the Family Committee (70 of the Supplements) to the Family Committee on Family People's Request (1 of the Supplements).
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7317	The referral request is a procedural request and therefore does not need any support. This will be put to the vote at the end of the debate. Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Sickl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7341	Mr President. High house! We will address the social problems that have left us in the past periods with today's government, and we will solve them too. I cannot spare the esteemed colleagues from SPÖ that they have pursued social policy without bringing it in. You of SPÖ have put the families in the Winkerl and have done nothing for a long-term guarantee of pensions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Understanding doesn't do anything, but...!]] This has come about because you have not had the courage to tell the citizens what the truth is. They've distributed sugars. When we do You would have made further economics, then you would not even have had the money for the election sugars again! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They have only watched the development of the population. You didn't hear the warning of the demographics, but you just ran it out of the row. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Who understands nothing about matter...!]] They have seen that the Austrians have fewer and fewer children and that today a family in Austria has only 1.3 children on average. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: No idea what you're talking about, but polemize!]] They have seen that the pensioners are getting more and more and less active who pay the contributions are facing the pensioners. In a short time, in 20 years, we will have about 30 percent of pensioners who live long. That's nice, and they're supposed to enjoy their pensions. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You already said that twenty times! Do you remember anything new?]] You know that something has to be done here, but you haven't done it because it's not populist because it's not demagogical because you don't want to tell the truth to the citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You can't take this seriously, can you?]] That's what we do. We will address these problems seriously and honestly and on a scientific basis, and we will solve them. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser:... Polemik!]] If you bet against child care money today, I can only tell you: This is a very necessary contribution for the families. The families have been ill-treated by you in the past periods. That's why it looks like that! In the 1960s, each Austrian family had an average of 2.3 to 2.4 children, and now it's only 1.3. This is a dramatic development in such a short time. You've watched it, but today we're here and we're going to upgrade the family. We are in favour of reassessing family work. They know as well as we do that it would be unfinancing if all that the family is doing today had to be financed by state or public bodies. But these families have been treated very badly by you so far. Therefore, child care money is the first right step in the right direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: We have the best family support in Europe!]] The family is assessed as a key factor in the future, providing the family with a service which must face a return to society. That's babysitting money. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: We have the best family promotion in Europe, and you only operate polemics from the government bank! Where are we?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, we stand on the freedom of choice, and that would actually be the bridge to you, ladies and gentlemen, both from the SPÖ and from the Greens. Because we do not say how you do that your work is the only universal remedy for the protection of women, but we leave it to families in their own responsibilities – and the Austrian families are reasonable – to choose their life patterns themselves and to decide whether they want to stay at home for some time as a mother or father with their young child or whether they want to continue working and entrust the child to a quality external childcare facility. [[Abg. Silhavy: They are without you!]] This is the meaning of child care money, and you can go with it for God's sake, especially since in women's-people's desire exactly the care for the single parents was demanded. That's what we're doing now. We know that around 90 percent of mothers are working today, but we will also set up the childcare allowance for the remaining 10 percent who are currently in the rain with their young children. These are the self-employed, these are the farmers, these are the students who have the courage to bring a child to the world, and who are then left cold in the rain by society. We'll act differently! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If Mr Oellinger speaks of the limit of merit and thinks that this is a bet when he says that the women in work would be left in the rain, I can only say that he reads from the coffee sauce, because it has not been said at all about the level of the limit of merit. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You say something different every day!]] We will try to make the commitment limit so that the average Austrian working young woman can very well agree on work and childcare and can obtain both her salary and the childcare allowance. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: A new announcement every day!]] To Mr Prammer, who unfortunately is not here now, I must say the same thing I said to her in the Committee on Budgets: [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: She's not going to do this anymore!]] She asks questions she should have asked herself in the past period. For example, if she asks: Where is the freedom of choice when there are no childcare facilities?, I ask back: Yes, why, dear SPÖ, has not more childcare facilities been sought over the past decades? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have taken action to ensure that all women are employed! Then it would have been your most urgent task to take care of childcare facilities! [[Abg. Silhavy: That's exactly what we've done in all the last years!]] I'm gonna blame you for making too few babysitting facilities. I'm in office for two months now. I can't work miracles, but of course we're going to work in this direction. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: We don't expect any miracles either!]] In addition, it must be said that the federal states must be moved here, because they are primarily responsible for the creation of childcare facilities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This year I will make the 133 million schilling of the kindergarten billion liquid, and I will, of course, seek further support for childcare facilities by the federal government. But I have to say to you again: We've taken over the budget hole from you, and I'm sorry I can't spell these care billions out of the sleeve. We must first reorganise the budget so that we can have money again to make use of it for the Austrian citizen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When Mr Prammer says there are no flexible opening hours at the childcare facilities, I again ask: Why has it not been tried in the past legislative period? This should have been done by Mrs Prammer as a woman minister. This would have been important especially for the single parents who are so close to her heart. Of course, the single parents have our full sympathy, because these are the families that need the best care because they are most insecure. Of course, these will be included in the solidarity of Community thinking. That's quite clear. In the same way, you have to ask about part-time jobs: Why are there so few part-time jobs? That could have been done a long time ago. We are now trying, I am trying to engage in the dialogue with the economy to create more part-time jobs for our young mothers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The following must be said: We are very much in favour of women's work. However, work and family must be compatible, and we must therefore make greater efforts. Part-time jobs, flexible working hours, the return of women after the baby break, the training of women – all these are topics that have priority, and we will strive to do this. However, we do not do this by adopting rigorous regulations that then encounter resistance, but by contributing to the formation of consciousness that only solidary thinking that only family-specific measures can really solve these problems. I would like to say to Mr Prammer, what is being done against violence: Of course, everything that has been installed and useful will continue during this legislative period. Of course, the intervention agencies against violence continue to receive support. Mr Prammer also spoke about violence in the family. It is important not to leave the family in the rain. Today, the family is very vulnerable by many influences. Therefore, it will be our concern to do more for family advice, for family care. For this approach, family advice is now much more available in the budget. That is to say, we want to support the young people who still have the courage to start a family and put children in the world by means of appropriate professional advice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say: We will go this way to tackle the fundamental issues of social policy, without demagogy, with honesty and – you know it as well as we – on a scientific basis. All experts – including your experts – say the same thing: We need to do something for families so that the drop in birth rates does not become even more dramatic – everyone knows – and we need to do something for a long-term pension reform. That's what everyone knows. That's what we're going to do. This is out of a comprehensive approach to society policy, and this is essential. Since we know exactly what is going on and what needs are going on, I would like to invite you to cooperate constructively in this respect again. I am at your disposal at any time for constructive discussions: in the interests of our young people, in the interests of our families, but also in the interest of our seniors.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7617	Mr Kostelka spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7638	Mr President. Statements by the Government Bank have the meaning of commenting on the debate and contributing to the debate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's what happened!]] What we have just heard is an agitation that has neither taken the tone of the previous debate nor done to improve the discussion climate in this context. Some of the statements made by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs were openly untruthful, and I also apologize from my point of view that Members of the opposition will become as qualified as the Federal Minister did. Mrs. Federal Minister! Just as you call into the forest, it sounds like it's back. [[Abg. Aumayr: Is this a dangerous threat?]] You have the responsibility for the debate, and I note that: They have no interest in any material discussion on this issue. You want to agitate!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7692	Mr Fekter. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7714	Mr President. I consider this statement to be misused on the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This was a debate by Mr Kostelka, and it is not intended to abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7750	Mr Fischl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7771	Mr President. Mr Kostelka's contribution to the Rules of Procedure was not in accordance with the rules of procedure. – In addition, the debate contribution of the Federal Minister was fully in line with the rules of business. I would also ask that, in the future, we refrain from further deterioration of the climate in the House by making such statements on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7810	Whoever has to decide what business regulations are and what is not, is in the Rules of Procedure. I suppose you know that. As far as the ancient issue of "Polemics from the Government Bank" is concerned, you know that we do not have expressly positive standards, but rather a rather good tradition, and it has always been the reputation of the Liberal Group: No polemics from the government bank! It belongs to consensus on how we manage it, and we will achieve this consensus if we strive to do so. And for such an effort on all sides, I ask you. Mrs Gabriele Binder is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7843	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, with all due respect, but I am really surprised at the aggressiveness and imprisonment that you have actually shown to the previous speakers. I also say this in connection with the fact that in the Committee meetings, the Minister of the Interior has always expressed the desire for cooperation and the desire to deal with the problems together. [[Abg. Böhacker: How to call into the forest, it should be back!]] With no word, Mrs Minister, you have set any measure, you have not mentioned with any word how you would like to solve the problems ahead as to how to implement your announcements. With money alone, Mrs Minister, we will not solve the problems. [[Abg. Böhacker: What have you done in the last 30 years?]] I refer to a statement also made by an expert in the subcommittee of the Family Committee on Family People's Desire by Mrs Irene Kernthaler. It has meant that the child care allowance will not solve the problem of the decline in birth in Austria. We need a number of measures to do this. We need support for childcare facilities, we need support for infrastructure measures, and above all we also need the partnership, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership when it comes to taking care and care of children, to equal parts of men and women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are the upcoming problems that need to be solved in order to finally end the women's "birth strike" – under quotation marks. Not the money alone makes you happy! I would like to point out that, together with the ÖVP, the Social Democrats in particular have decided on a family package which is now becoming truly noticeable in 2000, namely 12 billion schilling for the Austrian families, that we are in a top position in Europe, which is the result of family benefits, and that our package is recognised by, on the one hand, services in kind and, on the other hand, financial services throughout Europe. And you're talking about the fact that for the Austrian families nothing happens that they're put into a Winkerl! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs. Minister! Please also define your family concept. What to understand You under "family"? Do you understand exactly what Mrs. Zierler meant, whose statement is that the single parent is not a family with her child? What's family for you? What do we want, what do you want, Mrs. Minister? I shall now come back to the item on the agenda, namely the desire for families. For years, the liberals have been propagating the children's check for everyone and the ÖVP for all. The family popular desire includes both the demands and the improved compatibility of family and profession as well as the apprentice and student free ride for boarding school students, the protection for children and young people from violence in the media and from sects and the cost replacement for dental clamps. The FPÖ and the ÖVP have supported popular desire. To recall: 183 signatures were made. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 183 000!]] 183 000 signatures. FPÖ and ÖVP form a government and announce the introduction of childcare allowance by 1. January 2002. The popular desire is discussed in detail in Parliament – and with one stroke everything is different. There is a very thin committee, which includes a commitment to the demands of the people, but without any reference to the date of the in-force step of the implementation of the demands and also without any reference to how they are to be implemented. This Committee also does not include any information on financing. On the contrary: At once, it is noted that medium-term implementation can only be referred to in the light of budgetary possibilities, and the complexity of the subject area is highlighted. I should like to remind you that, since the demands of FPÖ and ÖVP, children's check and pension funds for all, the SPÖ have become aware of this very fact of financing and of the problems arising from it for the budget and for the FLAF, and has repeatedly stressed in the campaign that the money must not be distributed with the money. Mr Apropos Gißkanne, Mrs Minister. What do you mean now, and who is right now: Mr Grasser, the Minister of Finance, who thinks we must have a social balance in promoting, or you, who are talking about the rich, who then do not receive childcare allowance? What's going to happen? Who's right now? Who will prevail? – These would have been the questions you would have had to answer and clarify from the government bank. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also interesting that in this family-popular desire there are essential demands such as student and apprentice-free travel for boarding school students. We know that in the previous year Mr Bartenstein's ex-family minister presented a request for introduction to the Family Committee. At the time, however, we knew that FLAF still had debt to repay and would only have a plus in the coming years. Now that FLAF has enough room to play, forget about this, Mrs. Colleague. What is a concrete request? Nor is the demand for protection from violence in the media or from sects worth even a motion for a resolution. And the crucial question of the better compatibility of family and profession for all families is also not worth your request. Ladies and gentlemen! Another point that is very, very important. They have always talked about, above all, the FPÖ, that family funds should not be used to stop budget holes and not to use them. You've preached that all the time. And what are you doing now? They will use around 8.2 billion schilling to cover the budget in accordance with the budget accompanying law. So where is the implementation of your announcements, where is your credibility, ladies and gentlemen? I really believe that the distribution policy measure with the casting can is the wrong way. Another comment on the child care allowance. I'm convinced: Karenz money must remain karenz money, because only in this way can the traditional role model of men and women be changed. It is actually about the partnership that has been established. It is about the living partnership between men and women, about the partnership in working life and the working world, and about the partnership in society, and not about the division of roles between men and women, which is fixed and cemented by these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7918	Mrs Bauer has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7939	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is always the old pattern of the socialists, now still fattened by the opposition role: simply pretend how the women have to live, how the people have to live. And you alone have the right to the solutions. I repeat what Mrs Haller said: You'd have had time for 30 years! But I admit: As a coalition partner, we have prevented something, Mr Kostelka. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Yes, much even! Almost everything!]] And I recognize this, because from our point of view of the family, from our point of view of women, of living together and of quality of life, we have seen a lot different from what you wanted to do. We are therefore glad that we now have a coalition partner who is using his bourgeois ideas exactly in our direction. It will therefore be possible for us to change and change a lot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would be tempting to deal with all the nonsense that some in this House have given of themselves to a newspaper we find in our subjects. I will have more time to speak and then I will have a good time to deal with it. Ladies and gentlemen! What's so bad about our program? There is a demand – and the Socialist Group is now calling for it again – for the immediate extension of the Carenz money for single-parents to two years. Bought! You got it! We have even planned an increase in child care allowances for three years: two years in any case and a third year in the case of partnering. So your demand is actually fulfilled. It doesn't fit you because it also gets the others, not only the single parents. How am I supposed to understand? Strengthening and extending further training and consulting for trainees. - What are you doing? Don't we have that? I'm a woman. Binder grateful, for at least she has shown some successes that we have achieved in the course of the women's desire. We've done a lot of things. Among other things, we have cracked the rigid karenz time with a model of merit, which, however, is bureaucraticly problematic. Now we will finally remove these obstacles. I have a different approach of some demands, but you want to be self-employed women, independent women – just as it actually looks, where you are bringing women with this policy, I have already told you: away from man, if possible single women, with the support of the state and possibly under political influence. We don't want that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want self-employed women! Where is the liberation of my neighbor, who has been providing special emergency aid with two children for many years? What is she freed from? With her husband she did better, since she certainly had it much better in terms of living and income. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And now it's coming again! Now you want to free the women from the man, but at the income limit, suddenly the man's income has to come back, because it could happen to the rich. – That’s nonsense, please, that’s logical not to explain! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was also the word "fairness" today. Mr Kostelka! You have appealed to the Federal Minister in this sense, asking for fairness. I do not forgive you so far that on the first day of Parliament after the government, you actually abused Mrs Hostasch with the urgent request. This has personally hurt her that on the first day she had already "clawed" her successor on the table with all her own shortcomings. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Not yet answered!]] But your wife, Hostasch, demolded you! She didn't deserve that because she was an excellent politician, a good power. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am firmly convinced that this has made it easier for her to say goodbye to this House. I know Lore Hostasch, and it wasn't easy, this game you put up here. So: If you want fairness, you have to be fair yourself. This has happened to the In-de-Wald-Hin Rufen before. Clearly this was the echo today – I did not feel it so strongly – by Mrs. Sickl. It has also been spoken of by experts. I was quite surprised, because we were given the right of experts – by the way – in many things. An expert has said – that is currently the standard rate – that the childcare allowance is non-social and cynical. She couldn't explain why. But it's clear anyway: That's what Mrs. Csörgits does. That's what she's telling her in the farms. You will have problems once, and I will join all those who have already said this today: Let the women judge our projects! I suffered a lot from the fact that we had to take these two years back Karenz. What is the greatest need of women at all? – If they want to be with their child again. I'm sure that's the racer. The women will not at all understand that you are trying, with any gruesome arguments, to drive a chain between women, and that – and that is horrifying to me as a trade unionist – you are not creating solidarity, but are trying to create envy. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is your policy!]] In the newspaper "Soliday", Ms. Csörgits, the president of the trade union women, says that it is actually not good for another group – 11 percent of mothers – to receive childcare money. 11 percent of mothers who have been excluded so far – and you do not grant it to them! For this the voters will still thank you. You've done it before. You have completely lost the ground liability to the women outside, I can tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am often also addressed by socialist women – and they are absolutely not your opinion. [[Abg. Silhavy: The FCGlers are not your opinion either! Not at all!]] There is already enough waiting for the two years of Karenz, because they want to align their family planning accordingly. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Quietness, ladies and gentlemen. I don't feel overwhelmed either, that we are still doing the fine work in the committee, yes, I even feel honored. We have ended with what the opposition has always complained about, namely that we have received our draft laws from the ministers, from the Council of Ministers to the bank, and then we have been able to find a bit about it. This government does something different: It invites Parliament. And now it doesn't fit you again! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Was that the Bartenstein? That was the family minister!]] You won't be left with anything. We will have to work and we will do good work in the interests of the Austrian families, the Austrian women. We owe this to the family association and the operators of the family popular desire.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8081	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8102	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The ÖVP, according to my previous speaker, is the exponent of this popular desire, so her diction, something "guilty". – Now I do not want to measure the value and unvalue, importance or lack of a popular desire by the absolute number of signatures. You seem to have something like this: I am thinking of the automation of popular desires – referendum. But one thing is obvious: Other popular desires, which you have long held in the drawers of decision-making for decision-making, seem to have been much less valuable to you. You have not felt that you are committed to anything, as well as more than a million signatures, such as genetic engineering people's desire, such as women's popular desire, as in animal welfare, have not meant anything at all. – This is a very strange concept of democracy that you are showing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Bauer! If there is a legitimate basis for what women want in Austria, then, I think, it is women's popular desire and it is the demands of women's people. I think that the Austrian women are enough to make decisions for themselves. No, Mrs Bauer, it is not true if you say that demands have already been implemented. It's not like that! What we want above all, those who are behind popular desire, is equality of all women, whether they live in partnerships or not. We do not want a malus for women who – perhaps for good reasons, for any reason – choose against marriage or against partnership. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Bauer! Have you not even argued from the ÖVP that it is about the rights of children that children have a right to care by parents, through the closest reference persons? Why should the child of a single parent have a different claim than the child of parents living in a partnership? I really don't understand that, and I can't see anything just in it either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Two years they have!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is – but with the level of the European Union and the constitution, this government does not seem to be doing too well – something like the European Convention on Human Rights that seems to disturb you very much. And there is an article 8, in which it says that all people have the right to decide for themselves about their private life, the way they live, how they regulate their private life. But that's a thorn in your eye, that doesn't seem to fit you. I find it sad and embarrassing if you say goodbye to European human rights and their values. Ladies and gentlemen! It has often been about freedom of choice. Only: Where is this freedom of choice? Where is she? In any case, domestic childcare will not be compatible with a mediocrely paid full-time work – where is the freedom of choice for women, for mothers, for parents, actually to decide? [[Abg. Oils: They're too rich!]] They are apparently too rich, ladies and gentlemen, who deserve over 12,000, 13 000 s. If that is the concept of wealth of this federal government, then there are many things that can be explained to me. But you can explain this to the little people on the street! You can explain this to your congregations! I really can't see where there should be freedom of choice when we know – and this has been undisputed by the ÖVP – that there is a deficit of at least 150 000 in childcare facilities – other estimates are much higher. And in my opinion, there is also a right of children to spend at least part of their time in a group with playmates. Where is the freedom of choice, if there are simply no places, if the childcare facilities are so dislodged or the opening hours are so little adapted to the working world that they are de facto inaccessible? That's freedom of choice? And if this federal government is still ready in the one direction to add billions to it, some 8 billion schilling for domestic childcare, and then we learn from Mrs. Federal Minister, there is still a "restl" from the so-called "child care" billion, which then has fallen to 600 million anyway, a "restl" still from the old government – 133 million were at the beginning of the year – I already have to ask: That's all? 8 billion against 133 millions, more than 60 times as much for home childcare and no new money for creating additional childcare places? That's freedom of choice? – That’s just ideology! That is the banishment of women to the flock, and this has nothing to do with a modern society and with a free choice of women at all! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can still have such flowering terms for what you are doing, inventing, child care check, other terms, de facto it is clear that the real freedom of choice for parents, for women and men, this Federal Government is almost nothing worth and that especially women, parents who want to be active who can and want to be punished by this federal government for their special commitment. Where justice is, we cannot see from the Greens, and we will therefore fiercely oppose your plans in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8180	Mrs Zierler has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8202	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to thank Mrs Petrovic for the statement that all people have the right to decide for themselves about their lives, a statement which I fully agree with. That also means that there is no premeditation, and that means: Freedom of choice and decision. And if this freedom of choice and decision, as we believe it to be, has not yet been understood, this is not up to us, but we will, of course, continue to try to clarify and resolve this information emergency with the opposition parties as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If it was said that it had been so aggressively argued by the Federal Minister, then I must say: Truth is sometimes perceived as aggressive because truth is painful, truth hurts, and truth is something you, I think, still have to deal with, namely, with the failure of recent years, which is absolutely not with us. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But the opposite also hurts!]] The opposition parties also show an attitude that has absolutely nothing to do with the content, but only has party-political backgrounds. The SPÖ here represents a completely absurd argument that has nothing to do with sharp opposition policy or perhaps even convincing arguments. This is opposition policy of a party that is offended because it has not yet done away with the abandonment of power, and has not recognized, above all, the causes of the last election outcome until today. This is a policy for people. Who's always talking about people out there? That was the SPÖ, these were the social democrats, and you also did your policy: for the people "out there", and you have missed any access to content, any access to people, to problems, to fates. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What has your family policy done? Since 1994, the birth rate in Austria has fallen steadily. But let's remember: Didn't there have two savings packages? Do these savings packages perhaps relate to the declining birth rate, savings packages that have met families with children under three years of age, above all? On average, the Austrians wish for two children. The actual birth rate is 1.32. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Excuse me after you always call in between: How did the "standard" write about it correctly? - You're going to object to insulting out of the off. - That won't do it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A study of the Academy of Sciences has shown that the first child is a decision of principle, and in every other child the framework conditions are crucial. And precisely for these framework conditions we feel responsible. [[Abg. Sweamlein: You confuse the speaker's mouth with television!]] What's this about? – To improve the compatibility of work and family. But for many women, it also means staying at home for a certain period of time, staying at home, namely the crucial and most important years for the child, and then returning to the profession, and for that the women need, the families need the childcare allowance. [[Abg. You have no idea!]] The return for women is promoted by us. We don't pay an exit premium, as you have done with the karenz money so far, because that was an exit premium. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And because the topic of single-parents is also repeatedly addressed: We can only make improvements step by step, precisely because of the budget that is available or, better said, is not available. In women's people's desire there is this point, the demand for two years for single-parents, and exactly these two years for single-parents is now available. ==References== July of this year. This is therefore a very, very rapid implementation. And if Mrs Prammer, who is not present now, has accused me of addressing the women's people's desire in the committee, and has said that this has nothing to do with the family's desire: It was only a matter of clarifying that Mrs Colleague has confused the content and that we in this committee have definitely talked about family people's desire. But if we are in women's desire, I must ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats: How did you vote here in plenary at the time when the individual points of women's desire were dealt with? How did you vote? Did you agree? Or should we perhaps look at the protocols? [[Abg. Sweamlein: Talk to our coalition partner!]] Ah, that was the coalition partner. This is, of course, a wonderful excuse! Ladies and gentlemen! You have prevented the individual points of women's desire with enthusiasm, and my good advice to you is really: Look what the people who call you "out there" look at what the Austrians want! For example, a lady writes: I am a single mother of five children and must find that a humane women's policy in Austria has not been available until now. Even appointed emances and career women have put us in the political framework. Their policy was only for their equal. Many mothers with 18-month-old children have told me that they have come out of work crying. There is only one requirement: You need to hand your child over to a mother or to a crab tube and be available to the labour market. Objections that the child was still fixed on the mother and that the mother’s day mother was costing as much as the right mother would earn half a day would not be taken note of. The lady also writes: Last year I started a signature campaign for more tolerant childcare. I then gave the result to the then Women's Minister Prammer. The reaction was immediately null – there was not even a courtesy letter. But you don't really want to know what the mothers think, what they need and what they want. There are studies – I like to make them available to you – and results about the pilot project of the children's check in the communities of German Grips and Feistritz: extremely positive reactions, the families are excited, the purchasing power has increased greatly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] I have to tell you the following: I do not believe that the ideas, the arguments that are not true, the Party-political criticisms are a measure for me. The standard for me is what my colleague Edith Hallerbehavior has also quoted, namely if the representative of the popular desire says that the improvements for the Austrian families are sensational, or if the managing director of the Austrian Institute for Family Research says: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] These measures are an act of fairness for young families, which was imposed on savings packages in 1995 and 1996 in addition to the general burden as the only group. The childcare allowance and the independent pension claim for child care are a hope-giving signal for society as well as for those women and men who have or want to assume responsibility for children. – Our policy is also committed to this responsibility. – I thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8329	Next item is the report by Mrs Riepl. - Excuse me, Mr Riepl. [[Call:This is a man]] [[Abg. Mr Riepl: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Thank you for the correct position, Mr President.]] Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8377	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In this discussion, which clearly shows the differences in the position of the individual parties, I would like to point out, as a Social Democratic MP, that it is likely that this can be seen by all, namely that we in our country have the highest family support in the world. This confirms the family report of the Minister for Family Affairs, and this confirms the OECD. I think that in such a discussion we should first point out this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I made this statement because a few minutes ago we heard from Mrs. Sickl how badly the families in Austria were treated in their opinion. In fact, this is a criticism addressed to the last government, and this, Mrs Bauer, has also heard representatives of the People's Party. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: I heard it!]] In fact, I had expected that there would also be an uproar from the People's Party and that it would be said, it is not, because on the one hand, we get internationally confirmed that we are good at treating families well, and on the other hand, the government bank is politically criticised. I would like to reject this personally and for my group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We discuss the family-popular desire. In a divergent personal opinion on the Committee's report, the representative of the people's desire speaks of a very successful "result with probably sensational improvements for the Austrian families". . My previous speaker, Mrs Zierler, has just mentioned these "sensations". I think it's allowed to analyze the "sensations" in detail once, and I want to do that. First "sensation": non-binding words instead of concrete actions! For example, in the report on the better compatibility of work and family, "measures for the flexibility of working hours and the place of work and the elimination of family-discriminatory working time schemes" and much more are discussed. I ask Mrs. Federal Minister Sickl: What is flexibilization meant by that? Which direction should be changed flexibly? What is planned to do with the removal of family-discriminatory working time schemes? What is planned? – I cannot take from the previous discussions and the contributions of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs any more than a keyword, but no concrete action! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! "Sensation" number two: non-binding announcements instead of clear political statements! My example: Re-introduction of home travel aid for pupils and apprentices. It should be granted. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you: When will it be granted? How should it be granted? Why not immediately, because there are now surpluses in the family compensation fund, so there is money for it? Why not immediately? This question was also raised in the Committee, but was postponed by you later. That means: For the apprentices and students, it continues to say: Please wait! We have nothing left for you, we have no money for the youth! – This is the policy we are currently being sold as a sensation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! In the Committee you have literally said: The introduction period will depend on financing possibilities. [[Federal Minister Dr. Sickl: That's it!]] Of course, it is, but now we have the possibility of financing, there is enough money for it, but nothing happens to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] The operators of family folk desire also write that they are satisfied with the fact that nothing is happening. – This is an attitude that is a bit strange. So nothing goes on in this respect either: only words rather than concrete help for the young people in training. Ladies and gentlemen! "sensation" number three: Government parties don't know what they want, don't know what to do! Subject: Childcare money – this has already been received in many discussions in this debate. I'll get back together for a second. First we heard of the ÖVP: There's supposed to be a "carnation money for everyone." Then came the idea from the liberals: A babysitting check must be here. After that, it said: A child care allowance is to be paid instead of the "carer money for all". Then came: Karenz money for every child. "But I'm not for that!", said Mr. Grasser of the Freedom Party. "It should be," he continued, "that something that has real problems." – This has always been the position of the Social Democrats. We've always said: Those who need it, and not those who don't need it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Gaugg and Mr Fischl.]] Congratulations to the Minister of Finance for joining the position of Social Democracy! But then Mrs. Sickl says in today's "Morgenjournal" of the ORF: The childcare allowance comes, however, with a commitment limit, so that the rich do not get anything. At the same time, the income limit for the multiple-child allowance is to be abolished in order to increase the income of rich people. So what's really going on now? [[Abg. Gaugg: Let yourself be surprised!]] What's the point? What are you trying to do, Mrs. Federal Minister? How will you vote against Mr Finanzminister? Will rich people gain more, though they do not need it, or do rich people get less because they do not need it? – No one knows about your policy, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, more off! The "sensation" number four is that it is a political confusion that the representatives of the Freeman and the People's Party are currently playing. The question remains open: Is all this perfectly staged, or do we experience a step-by-step piece here? I think the latter is more likely to be accepted. In my constituency, in Ottakring, there's the last steppe, the Quaner. Try to get ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom and People's Party, but once you get on stage there with your confusion game. You might belong there. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The audience is going to the Tschauner to laugh heartily. However, the Austrian families have earned a more serious family policy than those currently offered by the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fastgg]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8500	The next item is the speech by Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8561	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery, in plenary! High house! Your references, Mr Riepl, can you save yourself, you can bring all your ideas into the discussion, but I have not heard much of that. With some interest, I followed the outcome of Mr Petrovic's speech desk when she said: We will stand firm against the improvement. – Mrs Petrovic is not here, tell her when she comes back in: The answer is clear: We will work with all our enthusiasm for the implementation of our requirements and the improvement of the current situation and use it for it! That's our message. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The fact that family policy means something to us is very clear from the fact that we are already discussing this important issue at the beginning of the agenda today and not at some point late in the night or at the end of the meeting. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Set the agenda?]] This shows the real importance we attach to this very important issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Family is a matter of principle for us in our work. Family policy is not something for us to discuss just before elections. We believe that the family has a special role to play in society and we all have to work on assigning it even greater. We must all also recognise that the discussion on family and family policies is very multifaceted. Very many want the security of a family, but not all of them, and this we should pave the way in this direction. That is why I would like to thank all those who have labored to get involved in popular desire for many hours. It is appropriate to recognize such an achievement for the general public, for the families as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is true, Mr Riepl, that we have a very good family support, which we have worked out together for many years – not a question; we do not push the facts – but it is also true that the Federal Government's income report says that families with more children have an under-average per capita income and that families with more children are particularly vulnerable, like no other group in that country, and therefore there is a need for action here. We face this challenge with enthusiasm. There are several reasons why we want to remodel this performance, which has been called "Karenzgeld", today. First: We want to get away from the high-bureaucracy. Please take on the skewer run that a mother has to do if some provision of access cannot be fulfilled! Today we want to create a more unbureaucratic performance for the child, for every child, because every child is equally worth us. That's it. [[Abg. Silhavy: What about the multichildren's graduation? Then why do we have a multi-children's degree, Mr. Colleague?]] We don't want to limit anyone with our new performance. Please explain to the citizens why you want to exclude students and housewives! What Mr Oellinger has done here is really outrageous. He has again addressed his archival theme, his class struggle topic, and wants to compliment farmers and businessmen. Saving That's what you're doing! We want to offer the services for the family, as already said: for every child, and we also want to create more freedom of choice – for the woman and for the man. Read through our concept, it corresponds fully to that. We will also improve performance: The time should be increased from 18 months to 24 months – even for single mothers. This is a modern, open, committed family policy that we will define and implement! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Not at all!]] Further, we are of course concerned with easier access to the working world by not excluding the woman, but by dealing with work and education together with her family according to reality. You have spoken to the childcare facilities several times today and have made me particularly happy, because I can tell you: This is to a large extent a matter of country. Look at the state of Lower Austria! We have a care density of more than 96 percent in Lower Austria, we have access to the zero rate. [[Abg. Edellinger: 12 o'clock!]] – Until noon, Minister, yes. [[Abg. Edellinger: till 12 o'clock!]] They come from Vienna, where each mother costs 4,000 s a month. Mr Edlinger, this is not all right. [[Abg. Edellinger: Sozial staffelt!]] We have made the more modern, the better and also the more effective childcare itself. That's a performance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You do not need to regret this, but you can take an example of a federal government governed by the ÖVP, it is called Lower Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edellinger: The kindergartens are locked by 12!]] We also want to reintroduce home travel aid, because we believe that all those children who do not live at the place of training, whether students or apprentices, have the right to receive aid – not a system of benefits with which we sponsor the Bundesbahnen or other institutions, but really a service for those concerned as a relief for the high cost. The health sector is also a major concern for us, up to the gears, where we are now trying to think of financial benefits that can be financed together with the social security institutions. This is our postulate, which we have not only demonstrated to you today, but we will also work on it, and the implementation of this bill for the families will succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8717	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8738	Mr President. High house! Actually, I do not like to start with replicas, but that Mrs Steibl said today that this popular desire was one of the most successful because it is implemented by the government, but it is evidenced by a somewhat strange concept of democracy. For the success of a popular desire does not depend on whether it is implemented by the government or not, but on how many people stand behind it. And 180 000 are a little less in relation to a million or 770 000. To take the implementation as a measure of success alone, I think it is a somewhat absurd interpretation of democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – That’s still coming, of course, the point, even the explanation of intent. The independence has already been mentioned several times and also thanks to the operators of popular desire. I took part in the Committee and also in the subcommittee meetings and can therefore say that the operators of the popular desire have reported exactly one word, Mr Mag. Gumpinger, and he is so "independent" of his sign that he sits in Upper Austria as a country member of the ÖVP. So with the independence of this popular desire, it is probably not that far away either. It should also be remembered that it is so "at random" a few weeks before the National Council elections. So they could probably provide a better example of democracy than this family popular desire. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Sickl then said that the Ministry is working on a scientific basis. We've had a nice story this week: The Institute of Family Research is so scientific – from the ÖVP Dynasty – that 40 million schilling can be found there in funding within a few years. But the evidence of science is rather based on the publications: "At half-half the women themselves stand in the way" – a proof of the science that you seem to have with your house and court institute. Or: "The single women dump the working mothers from the working world." – These are evidences that clearly contradict the scientific nature of this institution, to which you have been providing massive financial support for years. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: prove to me the opposite!]] I appeal to the publications of this institute. Since it's almost your party institution, it would be relatively easy for you to get it. [[New call of the abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] I would now like to make a few remarks on the concrete content of the family's desire, but also on the policy pursued by this Federal Government in this context. There are also statistics from recent years that show how, among other things, the care of men is used. It took 1.4% of men to take care of Karenz. They explain – and I have tried to question this several times in the Committee – that Karenz is now being introduced for three years. It seems that if the period of earnings is extended by half a year, at once the possibility of using it to a large extent will be increased. The fact is that even so far the slight in-appeal mention of this possibility has not been made of jux and tollery, but that there are very many families who have not been able to afford the resulting earnings losses. But you didn't take that into account in any form. The karenz money is raised minimally. An effective increase in karenz money is also not foreseeable in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] You'll extend it to two years. I think that's "super"! In total, there is a three-year period for families, but single parents can only use it for two years. Speaking of justice is... [[Abg. Kampichler: This is an improvement!]] It's an improvement. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: This is discrimination! The child must be punished if the mother does not marry!]] But I'm surprised by your sense of justice: For families in your mind, for "beautiful" families that are ideologically well-seen to you, for families where the man works and the wife stays at home with the children, there are three years. Of course, there is no such thing for single mothers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] That's right, but it's about your concept of justice! They didn't exist in the past, and that was always criticized. The limitation for single-parents was a measure that the Greens never contributed. I can only say one thing to the independent media authority you have provided: If this is similar to the ÖIAG Supervisory Board, then it may not be too good for independence within the meaning of this new Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But this really abstraction in the discussions in the Committee was the terms you chose. For example, there were such terms as "workplace household" or "business household", all names that sound wonderful. If you look at what image you have of interests – Minister Bartenstein has always said there are no interests – and if you consider what social security becomes visible in your wishes, you have to say: This is rather to be regarded as a threat than as just an inconceivable improvement. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: I don't think you interpret them properly!]] Furthermore, you created the term "family phase". I would also be interested in what is to be understood. Does the "family phase" last three years? Is the "family phase" ended after that? It is even in the Committee's determination of terms that seem to be completely unthinkable. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No! It's hard for you to understand them!]] Yeah, I don't notice all this, I know. For example, I also notice the following: Under the title "Better compatibility of family and work" you actually write in – and that is really strong – that further measures are to be taken to make working hours and places more flexible. Is it supposed to be two or three hours on call in the afternoon, or what about your flexibilization? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Best at night or on Sunday!]] Next point: Mrs Haller said that there was a success for the FPÖ in the elections because she promised the childcare allowance. This may be so, but you do not seem to believe in the implementation yourself, because the Committee report – and it probably has not really been noticed – says that implementation should be carried out according to the budgetary possibilities. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Right!]] What that means, I can easily calculate. Tell me where you want to take the money from! Finally, put on the table where you want to take the sums required to finance the childcare allowance! You don't. And that is exactly the point that will lead to massive budgetary problems in the next few years. Finally, a comment to Mrs Zierler's address: It is always done as if only the government makes serious politics and the opposition only party policy. – That’s really unbearable! I confess to you: They make massive ideological policy: conservative family image, a recourse to models that we actually know from the last century. I agree with you. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Hahaha!]] But then take note that the counter-model is very likely to be a massive and clear model of a policy based on equality based on emancipation and not on pushing the women back to the herd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8927	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8949	Ladies and gentlemen! The family-popular desire contains a wide range of important themes. I am particularly concerned about the protection of children and young people from the influence of sects and violence in the media. For me, the quality of a society is measured by how it protects the weakest, and especially our group is a constant concern for the protection of the weakest. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These weakest include children and young people. It is also very good to read in our party program that we attach protection from pseudoreligious sects and protection from violence against children, including violence by sects and the media, to our flags. We all know about the danger of sects. We know the Cult Commissioner of the Evangelical Church, Professor Spitzer. He says: Everyone is vulnerable, just do not hold to the same extent at all times for the same things. [[Abg. Oillinger: The Freedom Party is also vulnerable to sect leaders!]] Studies show that young people aged 14 to 16 are particularly vulnerable – in search of their own identity, in search of ideals, in search of adventures and in search of models they often believe to be found in sect leaders. Since puberty is increasingly moving forward, as access to age-oldsinadequate information is becoming increasingly easier – we see this from the "profile" this week, we see this also in the book "The disappearance of childhood" which has been on the market for a long time – young people, as I fear, are becoming vulnerable to sects. As we know, the goal of the sects is to take individuality and shoot it off the outside world. [[Abg. Gaugg: That could be the SPÖ program!]] For example, the founder of "Children of God and Family of Love" clearly says this: Take to them all that they may have nothing to return to! . Just before that, ladies and gentlemen, we must protect our children and our young people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is my concern not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as a mother of a five-and-a-half-year-old daughter. The number of sect members is increasing dramatically, and more than 300,000 in Austria are just too much. If this results in spectacular mass suicide, this shows where sectism can lead. However, the education on sect prevention can not only take place in the parents' home, but must also be achieved in the school in the cooperation of parents with the teachers. This is, of course, a prerequisite for intensive training for teachers, but also adequate information for parents, so that a possible risk from sects can be identified in good time. For example, the Gymnasium Horn supports students in crisis situations, not only as regards the vulnerability to sects. I think this is a very good idea and I believe that such a crisis staff should be established in every school. The Austrian network of advisory and information centres must be expanded due to the increasing need. Mrs Bundesminister Sickl, if I quote you correctly, you said that the need for information on the dangers of sects was unbroken and an interministerial working group would be used to further address these issues. I also believe that the content and financial conduct of sects will be subject to further review in the future. The protection of children and young people from violence in the media is also a major concern to me. The almost unlimited access to non-old-age adequate information – I have already mentioned it – brings with it the need for action. The guidelines on freedom of education policy mean that pupils must be prepared for the challenges of the information society. They must be able to filter out what is necessary for them from the wide range of information. But I think it would be nice if you did not stop out filtering the Internet on violent representations and on calls to suicide, as has recently led to sad success in the high north. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Self-control cannot be enough, quality control should be guaranteed by the already addressed but previously otherwise appreciated creation of an independent media authority. And this concerns all the media. I think it is desirable to move the protection of children and young people into federal competence, as well as explicit provisions on the protection of youth media. And also at EU level – the EU can profile itself – a filter system will be necessary to protect children and young people from harmful media influences. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, let me say: There is an urgent need for action. We must all work together to protect our children and young people from the influence of sects and from violence in the media.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9020	The next item is the report by Mr Reheis. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9041	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is worth remembering the very high level of family policy achievements of Austria in the debate on family people's desire in international comparison. Austria was on the right track with the additional 12 billion Schilling family package decided in 1998 and with the 1.2 billion schilling for the creation of additional childcare places twice during the last legislative period, with this money being created to the 30 000 additional care facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The crucial factor for the birth rate is not only the provision of money but also the creation of the childcare infrastructure. The "Care for All" could create the missing 110 000 care places. To distribute money cannedly helps least those who really need it because it is too little and it does not serve to secure life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the future, the family promotion system must also especially favour the low income families, especially single and multi-child families. The funding must be socially fair and effectively concentrated on those groups of people they need because of their social and economic situation. However, if the committee statements of Members Haller, Steibl and colleagues on family people's desire are precisely read, they are involuntarily reminded of unrealistic elections. The formulations are intended formulations, such as – I quote separately – for example: The right to benefit is to be decoupled from work and converted into a child care allowance. Or: The aim of unbureaucratic registration is to promote the workplace budget in order to facilitate the employment of workers in households – childcare, cleaning staff et cetera. - Quote. This, ladies and gentlemen, is particularly well recognized by whose spirit this committee is concerned. Who of the low-income families can afford a job "household" with such unbureaucratic registrations? What low - income family will be able to hire someone for childcare or household cleaning? – But it is not those diligent and decent citizens who, despite their zeal and propriety, cannot afford a castle, no jaguar, no reason, no own house and no dwelling. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There may be only the millions of large farmers and mothers who are favoured by this Federal Government in every respect can be pleased with a corresponding company, because only these can afford to employ someone else for their children's care or cleaning the house in addition to their household, in order to enjoy only the pleasant sides of child rearing. On the other hand, low-income families will need every schilling they work for for maintenance and will not be able to deal with unbureaucratic registration of workers in their household – quite simply because they cannot afford to do so. In this way, the entire Committee's determination of the government groups continues – with wishes and promises in all chapters of the family's popular desire, and then in the final remark – I quote: "All the measures mentioned above constitute a support package from a family policy point of view, which is to be implemented in the medium term in accordance with the budgetary possibilities. Hiebei is careful to note that the introduction of child care money is a priority, namely" – I say: first – "with 1. January 2002, to be realized." It is not said that for the introduction of the childcare allowance 13,2 billion schilling and for the following years 14 billion schilling will be necessary. No word on how this should be financed. This is promised, postponed and rejected. Not even a motion for a resolution has we been able to get through from the Government in order to decide on it at today's plenary session. – Again, we promised to vote, ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, since the election of the government parties, generous support has been promised to the families, which, if at all, are to be granted only in 2002, but on the other hand, especially those involved in small and medium-sized incomes have been increased financially by this federal government. Other burdens are imposed on families in order to perhaps be able to fulfill the major announced election promises in 2002. The distribution effects of the blue-black government programme take place from bottom to top. In particular, they will meet the low-income families hard. According to Wifo, for example, despite the liberalisation of the energy market, the higher taxation of electricity prices will hit poorer households, say low-income families, two and a half times as much as the service providers. Many family owners are dependent on their cars, for example, in order to be able to comply with their purchase. These are additional burdened by the increase in the insurance tax and by the doubling of the costs for the motorway vignette. This is not a family policy measure. For example, this measure will continue to cut family income from a worker who is still so diligent about his work, but who needs to commut with his car in order to get to his workplace. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fees, such as those for the issue of a passport or a driver's licence, are greatly increased. Even for construction savings loans, a fee will be charged. In the future, too, these measures will mainly affect small house-keepers and low-income families. Finally, there is a special burden on our families, namely the blue-black rehabilitation concept for the health insurance companies. What do you mean? Whoever's sick is supposed to pay. These are all expenses due to additional increases by this federal government, which will hit families with small and medium-sized incomes in particular hard. This tax administration is particularly punishing the families of the lower incomes for their diligence and for their economy, because the poorer households have to spend more than their total income for consumption purposes, while the richer households are saved and spared by this government. If you count the distribution effects of all increases in consumption taxes and charges, you can see that the poorer households and therefore most families are burdened about twice as much as the richer ones. With all these burden measures, families with small incomes are asked to pay for the cash register, especially those with low incomes. All of this is done in order to perhaps be able to implement the demands of family-popular desire in 2002. A child care allowance for all, the better compatibility of family and profession, the protection of children and young people from sects and violence in the media, the reintroduction of home travel allowances for pupils and apprentices, and the demands for a cost replacement for dental clamps are required by this Federal Government in advance as a burden on the families in the numerous payment obligations mentioned by me. On the contrary, positive statements and words about how to work for families are wrong by additionally punishing the families for the daily consumption of necessary resources and by asking them to cash. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But maybe it's going to be the first time. January 2002 to provide child care benefits. I emphasize the word "perhaps", because FPÖ Finance Minister Grasser admitted in today's "Morgenjournal" that the "carnation money for all" – and thus the children's check – is socially unfair. This is not the line of the Minister of Finance, says Grasser in the quote in the press. No payment of family allowances to rich people, says Grasser. . I would like to ask Mr Grasser to consider whether he might not want to join the Social Democratic Party, because he conveys what we have already called for: no disbursement of family aid to rich people! [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have so far called for the opposite. They now want what ÖVP social spokesperson Feurstein sees as a misunderstanding of Grasser, for the ÖVP also wants those payers who do not need it urgently, namely the rich. They always promised something else, but they didn't stick to it. You have made the people's election promises that you cannot meet with this federal government. And Mrs. Sickl now has the black-blue Peter – or the blue-black Peter – in her hand, of which she obviously does not know what to do between these two factions and whom she will pass on to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9187	Next item is the report by Mr Kampichler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9209	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The family-popular desire is the first popular desire, whose main focus is on the content of a government agreement even before parliamentary treatment. I am very pleased and especially congratulate the initiators of this popular desire for this great result! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] For about 15 years, I have been dealing with this subject, Mrs Colleague. For about 15 years I have been working on it, and after initial euphoria, my enthusiasm has unfortunately turned God into resignation. There have always been enormous barriers, especially ideological barriers, to these family-political improvements, for which there is a very large majority in the population to implement here in this House. Now we are thanks to God in the happy situation that we can do these things. And after the many family-politically welcome steps in recent years – I just remember the family tax law or the family tax reform with 1. January 2000 has entered into force – this is really the great quantum leap, ladies and gentlemen. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr Petrovic and Huber.]] Through the introduction of child care allowance, child rearing suddenly gets a value in society. A valuable activity is finally also assessed materially. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We're not just creating an act of justice. Mrs Colleague, I would really ask you to finally be in solidarity with all the women, not only with those who are pleasant to you, my ladies from the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this introduction, we also stress, above all, that the sensitive development phase of young people is particularly important to us and that we pay particular attention to this phase. Ladies and gentlemen! We really offer parents a genuine freedom of choice because we also guarantee them materially. Ladies and gentlemen! We invest for the first time in the education of our young people and therefore, of course, in our own future. Ladies and gentlemen! The positive effects of this will be very rapid, because we know very well – and this is confirmed by all the experts – that children who have the chance to grow up with a good relative in orderly circumstances are facing a positive way of life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] – Mrs Colleague! I know this is a sensitive point for you, but I can't save you God. That's reality. [[Abg. Huber: That's very funny what you say!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, many young parents today have problems with education, and we must once again show them how important their task is. The social policy of the last 30 years has insecured many people, and it has to be seen in various areas of ignorance. For this reason, it is necessary to re-introduce further information in this area. I am therefore pleased, Mrs Colleague, that the government programme provides for increased parental education and parental guidance measures. Ladies and gentlemen! But not only society, but above all the economy will benefit from these family policies. My predecessor tried to carry it out, but I can't help him in everything. I can only say that families need the money for everyday needs and that the resources we now make available to them are now immediately flowing into the economy, because parents need money urgently for everyday things, for clothing, for the nutrition of children and so on. They usually cannot afford expensive holidays where the money would flow abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why this is also an important economic policy measure. [[Federal Minister Dr. Sickl leaves the meeting room.]] I also see in the introduction of the childcare allowance an act of solidarity with women in rural areas. By decoupling child money from work, we really set an act of equal opportunities here, especially for those who would like to have a job. Women come to me every day and ask me for a job, but we cannot make such an offer to every woman. But it is an act of justice to ensure that these women are not too short in the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! By removing the ban on employment during the child rearing phase, the compatibility of work and family will also be more favourable in the future. The parents can choose the extent of their employment themselves, and the entry into working life or into full-time work is of course much easier. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are setting a necessary foundation for our own future with these important family policies. We are thus creating a good and important basis for providing young people with optimal support for the demands of life so that they can continue to compete in European competition and in competition with the whole world in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9308	Mrs Silhavy has also spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9330	Mr President. High house! - I know! [[Abg. Edlinger: (pointing to the empty government bank) What about the Federal Government? Has she resigned? That's a scandal! That's a desavowing!]] I said yes. Mr President. High house! – First of all, I am missing the competent member of the government. I would be even more modest and would also be satisfied with another, but there is no one there at all, and I must say that this is an immense deal with our Members in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that shows the policy of this government: She negates Parliament, she negates... – It could be another member here, Mrs Bauer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] But there's no one on the government bank at all! So much "interests" this government the family policy and the family-popular desire. That's a scandal! That's your democratic understanding! I'm outraged! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] You see all of this from the liberals, of course, through your colored glasses, that's clear to me. But maybe want to. They are also taken seriously. There will also be speakers from you, so I suppose I will come out here and have something to say. Do you just want to deal with yourself or do you want to talk to the government? [[Lively calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] It's outrageous! Mrs. Sickl always says that she would be so open to all the talks, and she would be interested in everything. But where it would have carried out its task by listening here to what the Members of this House have to say, even those who do not belong to its party, it does not carry out this task. I'd like to have this with pity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But the treatment of this family popular desire is, anyway, only the continuation of the chaos policy of this black and blue government. The Minister of Finance says that child care is not for everyone. Mrs. Federal Minister Sickl says child care benefits for everyone. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In any case, Mrs. Sickl said today: No, maybe not for everyone, because if you earn, a limit of money will be removed. And the social spokesperson of the ÖVP, in turn, says: A great success, women can now earn as much as they want in the karenz age. The Federal Minister disagrees with that. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: She's not here at all!]] Karenzgeld has been created to ensure that working parents do not have to do any work for a certain period of time and receive a replacement for income. You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, are abolishing this paycheck. Karenz money was and is an income replacement! They are punishing the families who do not fit into your ideological ideas. You make ideology, you run pure class struggle. Mrs Steibl spoke of a working family earlier. However, it has not answered the question of what a functioning family is. Today we have also heard the expression "ordinary family". But no one knows what according to your ideological knitting pattern is a decent family. They say everyone has the choice. – In my opinion, this is the free choice of limited possibilities! No thanks! Since Mrs Bundesminister Sickl is always so whining about this budget and the budget deficit, I advise her to read the budget implementation. Unfortunately, she's not here, but she should really listen. That would be a good tip for them too. The 1999 budget implementation report is a positive report. This is a report signed by a Minister for Finance of Freedom, but it is a report from a time when a Social Democratic Minister for Finance was responsible for the budget. But since it would be more useful in itself if the Federal Minister were there, I will not use my speaking time to the full. [[Federal Minister Dr. Sickl enters the meeting room again.]] – Very nice, Mrs. Federal Minister, then I will wait a few seconds. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to repeat: They always say that you can't do anything you want to do, because the budget is the same as it is. I recommend you: Read the 1999 budget implementation report! He comes from a time when a Social Democratic Finance Minister was responsible for the execution. The report has already been signed by a Free Minister for Finance, and it expresses the highest praise for this 1999 budget implementation. Maybe you should look at this, then you could see for yourself that what you claim from the government bank here is not in line with the facts, but is false. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you are talking about the need for budget recovery, then it is not automatically a contradiction. The contradiction arises from the question of how you are rehabilitating. They pass the heart of the problem. They reorganize the budget in such a way that it is socially unfair and that it is at the expense of the single parents, the salesmen, the hairdressers, the employees, the workers and the officials. They distribute funds from workers and women workers and pass them on to self-employed and inactive persons. The childcare allowance for all is a typical example of this. They abolish karenz money as a benefit with benefit claim to re-distribut it. They say there's a limit of trust, that is, when someone goes to work, he's had a bad time, then he's got nothing left. But those who stay at home who can also afford to stay at home, they get the money. - You think that's fair?- Oh, my God! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Rosemarie Bauer has been very evocative and has said how poor the woman with the two children is without a man. I believe Mrs Bauer is definitely true, I also know many women who are poor. I also know many women who are not doing well as single parents, but just this group you negate! Especially for this group you are not willing to do something because it does not correspond to your ideological family image! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bauer forgets in all history that we had a novel on marriage law, in which there was also such an ideological debate. At the time, Mrs Bauer and her party did not believe that women should have equal opportunities and free choice in this area. They also demand the home service – Mrs. Bauer has called for it again today – and possibly even its tax deductibility. - I think that's "toll"! My colleague, who deserves much less than I do, is supposed to finance the wages of that woman who makes me the household at home. I think that's "toll", that's a "super idea"! This is socially "especially just": Those who have little support those who have a lot! – That corresponds to your new world picture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: I didn't say that!]] This policy, namely to take the poor to give the rich, continues with you in all fields of politics, not only in family policy. Mr Gaugg was very excited today when Mrs Prammer spoke. I understand him. He even gave it to the companies in writing that he represented their interests here in Parliament. And now you're going to do it. The Austrians hopefully thank themselves for this policy during the next elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9494	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9515	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To this family-popular desire I would like to say that I was one of those who immediately signed this family-popular desire when it was up to date. I have read this through, and I can fully stress every single point of this family-popular desire – I have already said this in committee –. The fact that there are different opinions on this is clear to me, but it is a matter of doing something for the Austrian families, because the times change and you can't always stand, but have to bring something new. Mrs Silhavy, I would like to say one thing: I understand that in the opposition, every hair is pulled out of the soup and shown. I'll give you the right, we've always done that. But at least you should stick to the truth. I don't think you're familiar with that. I don't think that's what I'm thinking. You know each other in family policy and also in social policy a hundred percent or we say very, very well! But that you just twist things and show them differently is already a strong piece, I have to say. That's a strong piece! - Everything! [[Abg. Silhavy: What do you mean, Mr Dolinschek?]] For example, the childcare allowance. That's an insanity what you're bringing here! Students used to have no way of getting a child care allowance, a care allowance. According to the present model, they would get one. Why are you against that? Why are you against this point? You can't be against the fact that students or farmers who don't have the income you've got get a karenz money! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: But against how you distribute it as you do it!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] And it doesn't matter if it's a child's allowance or a child's check! It doesn't matter what the name is! The fact that we are leaving here from an insurance to a family benefit is something you have recognized. And that's the fact. [[Abg. Silhavy: By doing so, you abolish the legal claim! The legal claim!]] Mrs Colleague, I don't have so much time to go into you now, but I would like to say something about school leave. When you were from the SPÖ in the government – you held responsibility for social policy and financial policy in this House for 30 years – you deleted home travel aid for students and students in the first savings package. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Did you listen to Mr Riepl?]] – At the time, you have deleted them, just as you have reduced the leave fee from 24 months to 18 months. Just like that! We are now in the process of reintroducing home travel aid as part of the family's popular desire. This affects 60,000 pupils and 33,000 apprentices in Austria. [[Abg. Silhavy: Where? Where is the legislative initiative?]] They simply violated principles. Certain students and apprentices have the opportunity to receive this home travel allowance, but those who are housed in boarding school and go home on the weekend because these homes have often closed on weekends. This violates principles. The free choice of training is restricted. To reintroduce home travel aid. – The regulation was not quite right in the past. This was a silent subsidy from the transport companies because a free movement ticket was more expensive than a map for an adult. [[Abg. Reheis: When will this be introduced?]] Here you have to go new ways, a flat-rate amount depending on the distance from the home to the place of residence, and be charged monthly or once a year via the financial office. These are the ways we're going. Experts have determined the expected costs; between 400 and 450 million schillings are to be found which can be paid loosely from the family compensation fund, and we will also be committed to doing so. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: When will this be introduced?]] – Immediately, now, in this legislative period. We can't do everything from today to tomorrow. You've been asleep for 30 years, and we're supposed to do everything from today to tomorrow. What Do You Believe Are you? Stay on the ground of the facts! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Comparing family and profession is also a big thing, and you should actually also work to ensure that family work is finally rewarded more justly. Family work is mostly the responsibility of women. You always say you're working for the women. – You haven’t been working for women for 30 years at all! Not at all! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Why do women still deserve less than men today? Why are they less qualified than the men? – Because You didn't do anything to make women do better! At least in the youth, the situation is much better. But why is this the case with women? - Because they've been interrupting longer because they're staying in unemployment longer than the men. That's why they have a lower income. We now want to introduce the childcare allowance so that women can have a greater choice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you soften this nonsensus of flexible kindergarten opening times, I have to tell you: In Vienna the "children's friends" prevented this. You know why? – Because every woman strives to work in the morning and not in the afternoon. And if you want flexible kindergarten opening times now, then the kindergarten has to lock up at 6 am and lock up only at 7 pm, and that is not possible. We therefore need other alternatives, and the alternative is simply the child care allowance or the children's check or the care allowance for all, no matter what we call it. Letter You're behind your ears!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9675	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9696	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The world of work and family – two areas of life that are not allowed to exclude each other, especially in a time like this one. For many families, especially young families, it is necessary for financial reasons that both parents work. However, this must not suffer the quality of child rearing. Each child is entitled to the best possible education, education and especially time it can spend with his parents. This should not fail due to financial or organisational shortcomings. Childcare benefits no longer depend on working before birth to ensure basic financial resources. Thus, all parents are equated. From a different perspective, one can also say: With the implementation of these measures, all children are finally given the same chance. For me, being able to better reconcile family and profession is the logical further development of the pension fund for all. We must give all parents the opportunity to pursue their profession, without at the same time having to neglect their duties and duties, but also their wishes. Children must not suffer from the employment of their parents. This cannot be in the interests of our society, because the children are the future, the capital of our future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the political level, we must ensure that the two areas of family and work can be reconciled socially and economically. We need to find new design possibilities and scope. "Flexibility" is the keyword. Not family life should be subordinated to the working world, but – on the contrary! – the professional world should become more child- and family-friendly. This requires close cooperation with the economy. This is the prerequisite for creating and securing jobs. One should also be concerned that large businesses have technical and financial resources to develop measures to improve the compatibility of work and family life. Smaller farms, on the other hand, are more difficult. They only have limited frameworks of action and therefore need more incentives, advice and support. In this context, the audit "family and profession" should be mentioned as an example. It is an important point of departure for companies to become aware of the fact that family kindness is paying off. Family-friendly measures bring benefits such as better motivation of employees, higher willingness to perform and to use, less employee fluctuation and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] On the other hand, the employees and employees of a company must also be aware that it is only between themselves. There must be a will for flexibility and acceptance on both sides. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs. Colleague! We know: You want the women to go back to the herd, as your former family minister always said, because for [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] She's not a job, she's not a job, she's not a job. They have only the ideology in mind and not the well-being of our families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Family in itself, the benefits of fathers and mothers have a high priority for our society, which is often far too low. We must put these values and the services provided to society as a whole in the right light. For this purpose, the family-popular desire was committed, and the new government is committed to doing so. We give more importance and value to family policy and the institution family. One point of the Committee's statement on compatibility is the demand for specific promotion measures for women and men during the family phase for re-enters. Even if the opposition does not believe in it, we are aware that the return is a central question. An important approach to this is that different key qualifications acquired during the family phase should be recognised and used as potential for the profession and/or re-entry. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] In addition, new forms of work such as telework offer new opportunities for new entrants. This is also in line with the demand for measures to make working hours and places of work more flexible. In my opinion, there is a common denominator for all these demands and proposals in the field of compatibility and for the implementation of the entire demands of family people: Our top goal should be to raise the reputation of the institution family to make its importance for all society intelligible. For a higher importance will lead to more understanding and support for all of us both from politics, from society and from the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9790	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince-in-Office. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9812	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think one can quite say that no popular desire has achieved as fast-paced successes as the family-popular desire. – A clear indication that family policy must be based on what families actually need in everyday life. In addition to the care allowance for all and the better compatibility of family and profession, we must not forget the demand for the reintroduction of home travel aid as well as the cost of toothpaste. Several solutions were discussed in the Family Committee. In the Committee's statement, "Re-introduction of home travel aid for pupils and apprentices" was noted: "... in the form of an aid, staged after the distance to kilometers". Why? – Because about 60,000 pupils and about 33,000 apprentices are affected. On the topic of dental clamps only a few numbers: According to the main association of social security funds, there were over 111 000 orthodontic treatments in 1998. This caused the social security funds costs of around 608 million schilling. For the rest, 80 million schillings, the families themselves had to pay. In other words, in case of full cost replacement, the social security funds would also have to expect some 500 million schillings of burdens. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee's meetings had different views on this point. While the Social Democrats believe that these funds should come from the Family Allowance Fund, we are convinced that these costs are, of course, to be taken over by social security bodies, taking account of the social criteria. One could now do exactly what the costs for the families are, but for reasons of time I want to save myself. In short: a family with three children, each child needs a stuck toothband – for the money that has to be applied for it, you could buy a nice small car. It's important from my point of view: Medically necessary benefits must not depend on the financial situation of the family. I believe it is important that medical standards and collective positions are created in the field of pine orthodontics so that uniform quality criteria apply to treatment. Ladies and gentlemen! The subcommittee meetings and the Committee meeting, held on 6. April was quite interesting. The artificial excitement of Mrs Silhavy is also really remarkable. She believes only those women stay at home who can afford it. A little more commitment to the base to know what really moves women with small children would not harm a woman named Silhavy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] When I think of the polemics of Mr Reheis, who speaks of the big farmers who could afford to hire someone for child rearing, I must say: Mr Reheis! That's simple and just cheap polemics! You should look at yourself – not only in Tyrol – how the farmers in Austria really do! Putting comparisons here, electricity price and the like, that's simple and just too cheap! That doesn't even believe your own people! The SPÖ's minority report and the resolution of the 6th General Report are very remarkable. April, where all that is actually required is contained in the family-popular desire, and best of all, it should be done yesterday. - Come on! While the SPÖ was in the government, she did nothing, and now everything should be done yesterday. How did SPÖ react to popular desire in September 1999? – It has been abandoned as a small, lavish "spray-sprayed folk desire". It is expected that voters will forget, but that will not work! It is remarkable when Mr Riepl complains about the reintroduction of the home aid. – Where were they? You last year? There was a consensus in the Family Committee of the Coalition at that time. Who defended it? – SPÖ and its Minister of Finance. You probably completely forgot what happened here! Or: Childcare facilities. – Perhaps some of the ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – if they have at least four classes of folk school behind them, they should be powerful – should simply read the seventh paragraph in the Committee statement on page 2. That is all that is to be said. Mrs Ridi Steiblhat said clearly: The vast majority of families want to take over child care themselves. For the SPÖ, one has the impression, however, the option should not necessarily be asked. From the left point of view – if you see only on the left eye and the right is blind and the eye is enlightened – the question is probably: What choice? legitimate. The children in the baby crib, the mothers in the union – and the world is all right! But then only your world is fine, our world is not! There you are very far away from what people really want! We are committed to the choice of families.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9890	Mr Bruckmann is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9911	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, you will allow me to return to the basic problem and to present it on the basis of an example: Two couples: the two women are equally old and work in the same profession, for example salesmen, the two men also work equally old and in the same profession, for example car mechanics. The one difference between the two is that the first couple has no children, the second couple has four children. The first couple can afford a lot during their working hours, such as vacation abroad, a pleasant existence. The other couple decide that to give the children nest heat and security, one parent remains at home – I do not say: the woman, but a parent remains at home. In this case, six persons must live on one income, in the other case two persons of two incomes. The six that have to come out with income live – throughout the parents' entire working time – at the poverty line, if not below. Now comes the day on which the two couples retire and the four children of the second couple are now employed. – And now I come to the jumping point: Three pensions are financed from the contributions of these four children under the payment procedure. Two pensions go to the other married couple, who have been able to afford everything possible in their lifetime, and only one pension to their own parents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! This is the background behind which any measure needs to be seen to go towards child care and accompanying measures. It is a clear reduction of this ques tion of inequality, otherwise the same conditions. Let me make two more comments on the so-called karenz money for all. The first is a very simple finding: The cost and effort of raising a child are the same – regardless of the mother’s status; whether she is employed, whether she is a student or she is independent, whether she is a farmer. It is about paying off the extra costs for the education of a child. That's why there's a carnage money for everyone in this sense. And the second is the upper limit. – As far as the upper limit is concerned, this is a welcome topic to appeal to the Austrian envy complex. High house! It has already been assembled by the opposition that Social Minister and Minister of Finance have made various statements in the "Morgenjournal" today. – Yes, what's behind that? We are still in the middle of parliamentary treatment! We are living in a democracy in which a decision-making process as such can be taken in the House responsible for this, namely the House. And I would like to add that I have a – third – different opinion from both, which I will continue to represent in parliamentary treatment. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Now I finally reveal myself as a capitalist oilling. I am against any ceiling, and I can expressly justify why. The redistribution between the poor and the rich is the task of a progressive tax system in a Western democracy. We have a progressive tax system, and this is subject to the redistribution of the rich to the poor. Childcare money is something quite different. It is about redistributing between children's richer families and those who have fewer children. These are two completely different pairs of shoes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Wherever one wanted to get such a ceiling – please, women from Director-General usually don't have a lot more children, so it would be extremely few cases that really fall victim to the envy complex. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Above all, the administration of such a ceiling and the precise review of what is to be calculated and what is not would cost a multiple of what could be saved by the few women of the Director-General. Let me conclude with a word by Mr Rupert Gmoser, whom I highly valued earlier. Rupert Gmoser once said: Everyone deserves too much that deserves more than I do. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I cordially ask for a little less class struggle and a little less ideology and a little more good will and a little more reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10008	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I have a request from Mr Haller and Mr Steibl to refer the report back to the Committee on Family Affairs (1/70 of the Supplements). I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this referral request for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. The matter will continue to be discussed in the Family Committee and the vote on the subject will be unnecessary. 2. Point Report of the Committee on Industry on the Government Template (48 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Legal Relations of the Austrian Industrial Holding Aktiengesellschaft and the Post und Telekom Beteiligungsverwaltungsverwaltungsgesellschaft (ÖIAG-Law 2000) (77 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Industrial Committee Report on the Government Template (49 of Supplements): Federal Act on the amendment of the Federal Act on the introduction of the Austrian Post Savings Bank into a Stock Corporation, the Postsparks Act 1969, the Banking Act and the Federal Law on the establishment of the State Debt Committee (78 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10063	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Not on the presence of a member of the government!]] That's a point I assume is in line with him. There is a long list of speakers. First of all, Mr Friedrich Verzetznitsch has been mentioned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The minister is already here!]] I assume that a member of the Federal Government is already in the hall. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Even two!]] Even two, okay. I would therefore ask the honourable Member to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10149	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Over the course of today, much of the red and white consensus will still be mentioned. Especially in the laws to be dealt with now, a red and white consensus would be more appropriate than ever, and not the introduction of a black and blue party ideology, due to the fact that the assets of the Austrians are the property of the Austrians, but also because of the future of Austrian industrial policy, and therefore due to the fact that about 5 percent of all employees in our country are concerned, because some 1,500 subcontractors, small and medium-sized enterprises in the private sector are affected, but also due to the fact that many families are affected by measures in this area. This is not a panic, as Mr President-in-Office stupidly pointed out in a speech published but not yet held, but it is simply a representation of the facts, because your government programme, your Council of Ministers decisions are a clear proof that it is a matter of privatisation to you, that it is a matter of raising the capital market, but it is not a matter for you of the country's industrial policy future, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker shall keep the copy of an APA broadcast up to date]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Maintaining strong strategic industrial groups is an essential prerequisite for our country to be one of the winners of globalisation and not the losers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an opinion of a trade unionist alone, but is an opinion of the social partners, i.e. the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture of this country, which has also been held in several opinions and opinions of the Economic and Social Council. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a mix of international corporations, Austrian large companies and the dynamic small and medium-sized business structure in our country. By formulating that the proceeds from further privatisations should be used for research and development, the way of the nationalized industry is actually continuing. Since the beginning of this chapter of economic history, this can be found: The nationalized industry must always be available to you, but must never stand in the way. We have noticed this over and over again in times of the ODP's sole government, and now we note this again: It is necessary to privatise the private economy so that the state can obtain funds for research and development. Not the country's industrial policy future as a whole is in the foreground, but your private company, Mr. Prinzhorn, needs money for research and development. That's why we're selling a state company. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: I deserve that myself, I don't need it...!]] That's why we're selling a state company. That's the policy you're actually making. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! New policy is underway. However, I cannot see them in the composition of the Supervisory Board. It may be obvious that ropes by Mr. Prinzhorn, who has staged this very skillfully – you have to admit – seem to be objectively staged by an independent head-hunter. This is not a criticism of the qualified persons mentioned here, but very likely the question is why only corporate directors may belong to the Supervisory Board, for example, why not also bank professionals should be a member of this Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Mr. Achleitner is not a bank specialist?]] This has also been criticised by the Chamber of Commerce in its opinion. It also called for more banking professionals to be included in this Supervisory Board. They must also be asked why people who have long-standing economic experience, but also have social and labour law skills, have actually been excluded from the Headhunter procedure. This question has to be addressed. You like it when you're talking about objectivity. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, it would be to say that the previous members of the Supervisory Board no longer have our confidence, we are getting people who have our confidence in privatization and do not have in mind industrial policy in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just as honest, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it would be if Federal Minister Grasser in the Industrial Committee did not just spend the slogans: Don't be afraid! So like it was said: You don't have to be afraid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] No, that was addressed to everyone. He gave a very good speech, you can also read it. But it is a question of leaving this speech not only as a speech, but also as part of the Council of Ministers' decisions or of changing the laws proposed by us. Keeping speeches is one thing to determine the reality of the other. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The announcement of talks, as you have proposed in an amendment, is far from proof to me that it is serious about co-determination. We always talk, no matter what the subject, but the realities are created by decisions. I would like to see, for example, by means of Council of Ministers decisions, by means of legislative amendments, appropriate actions follow. This is industrial policy, which is value assurance for our country, which is security of value for taxpayers and co-owners. It is not anonymous people who are here, it is the citizens of our country who are co-owners of these businesses. This is exactly the policy that has in mind the future of our country's industry and not just the future of the stock market. Ladies and gentlemen! Take advantage of your chances, you still have them! The Minister has announced that one will be ready to talk until the last, and he would also have the opportunity to use the second reading for amendments. We will make a number of amendments today, and it will be clear whether the discussions we have held in the Industrial Committee will have an effect, or whether what was finally apparent in the Industrial Committee will happen: The opposition can make applications as much as it wants, it always goes out eleven to nine, we're the government, we're going through that, but say, we want there or there, of course, to go on talking. [[Abg. Young: Does that seem familiar to you?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: We don't do that! You did this! That's how it used to be!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: It used to be so, yes, and that hurts you, because it's not like this anymore!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am bringing in a new amendment which has been distributed to you in the meantime, which essentially determines the core shareholder function and includes the necessary paragraphal changes. I would ask you to take these requests into account, in the sense of your statements in the Committee, more than you have done.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10283	The amendment just mentioned has been distributed, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10395	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10416	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If, on the basis of many years of knowledge from Mr President, I do not have respect for his person and respect for his function, I would say that it was really terrifying which loss of reality has come to light in some of his statements. It is only my respect for your person and for your function that I should be asked, Mr President, to formulate in a conjunctiv. It must be a loss of reality if one does not realize that the past history of privatisation in Austria is a unique success story. From Marod State enterprises that have cost taxpayers a lot of billions of money – still account for 80 billion schilling debts! – have become efficient, profit-oriented, publicly available industries. And we are proud of that, Mr President. That's panic, these are horror scenarios, that's really pure loss of reality! I have to say that so clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Today, we are proud that in recent years, the ÖIAG has really performed this function successfully in the areas where it has been able to privatize on the basis of legislation. It would be a step into the past if one agreed to your amendment, which expresses that it is not the main task to privatize but to manage government interests. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Reactionary!]] That should again be the main task of the ÖIAG!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is a reform into the 19th century. In the 20th century, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: In the 1970s!]] It has also been terrifying, really terrifying to me, that industrial policy is obviously still understood as the government's governing in industrial enterprises. Today, modern industrial policy has long been a site policy! We need to make the economic location of Austria so attractive that investment capital is located here and jobs are created, Mr President Vergestnitsch. I'd like to say something about your horror scenarios. You have not brought them in this form today, but in many press releases you say that 120 000 jobs are at risk. [[Abg. Conspicuously, are affected!]] Are affected and threatened! [[Abg. That's a difference!]] Mr President. That is exactly what politics must not do, namely make people afraid. What does that mean? 120,000 families are afraid that the family owner will lose his job. – This is irresponsible panic, Mr President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] The OECD's own experience and also an international study show that employment growth in privatised companies is higher worldwide than in non-privateised companies. – To be read in the January number of the "Economist", Mr President. I think we can really say today that, basically, everything is for further privatisation, as provided for in this bill. It speaks all of this in a political way because the state has proved itself to be a bad businessman worldwide. Industrial policy is all about this because, as mentioned above, industrial policy is a site policy and not the government's governance in industrial enterprises. From the point of view of the capital market, further privatisation is to be welcomed. Zapotocky, the new stock market leader, rightly says that he is expecting a rise on the Vienna Stock Exchange for the second half of the year through the privatisation programme of this Federal Government, where there have been problems for many years. Privatisation is also to be welcomed in terms of social policy, because what guarantee of depoliticization should there otherwise be if not privatisation? Mr President. One thing I have to say: As an Austrian citizen, one who has been active in the economy for many years, I am proud that we have found such entrepreneurial calibres that will be responsible for the fate of tens of thousands of jobs in the future in the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These are all top managers who in the past have proven, on the basis of their own ability, that they are very likely to achieve employment growth in their companies. This is modern management, which is modern industrial policy. These people are ten times preferable to me than any political functionaries, whether from the trade unions or from the employers. I'd rather have successful managers sitting there ten times. Mr President of the Council! If you're always talking about popular wealth, say Please note that this population asset is burdened with 80 billion debts. [[Abg. Huber: But that's worth much more, you know that too!]] People's assets are indebted to 80 billion, Mrs. Colleague! And this coalition will not allow the taxpayer to be asked to cash back, perhaps in a few years, in order to give some socialist trade union officials an industrial policy playing field. We will certainly not allow that! This draft law also serves this purpose. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another point to the repeated argument that a sale of state-owned enterprises is a one-time proceeds: At first glance, certainly, but it is about the lasting effect, whether the state, as it was in the 1970s, has to fire out of the budget each year or whether the state of profit-oriented enterprises collects profit taxes annually. [[New call of the abg. Huber.]] This is a considerable lasting effect in the interest of the taxpayer, and we feel like the taxpayer's lawyer. – Mrs Colleague, there is an old rule; I have already said it: For me, the volume of calls is always a criterion for how weak the arguments are. The louder you call, the weaker your arguments. You're just proving it again, Mrs. Colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Summary: If we look at the various aspects of this package of laws objectively, then we must say that God is grateful to this change of reform in this new state of government, a change of reform which is in the interest of the taxpayer and which is also in the interests of the workers. Because if there is such an offensive of privatisation, as we decide today – and I am convinced that it will be successful – then we ensure jobs, then we secure income opportunities, and then we ensure that the taxpayer is not constantly asked to cash.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10546	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10567	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The interests of the taxpayer, Mr Colleague, are a little bit wider. I said last time, I accept the goal of coming down from these 80 billion once, if possible up to zero. But there are other goals, too, and it is one of the problems of this privatisation law that it is silent about it. It is no coincidence that the report of the Committee on Industry, on the one hand, mentions only the aim of all these measures to eliminate the old debt for the ÖIAG. I would have been pleased if you had at least mentioned a much more important goal, namely that these companies should survive at best, have the best chances of living on, especially in the interests of the workers employed there, with a long-term approach. This should have been added to the fact that these interests in any decision, when privatized, whether and to what extent to which they are sold, via the stock exchange, to a shareholder and so on... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yes, this is the problem of this law, that there is a framework and that framework leaves much open. When I first saw this bill, I thought that it would only show in detail how you would handle it. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: How was the practice so far? Successful?]] It is not unthinkable that you are given a certain amount of confidence. However, I do not see what has happened so far as to give you this advance of confidence. The goals of privatisation are not mentioned, except that you want to reduce debt. There is no mention of the long-term interests of companies, no mention of the long-term interests of workers in these areas. But apart from what has happened in the meantime, it makes a very skeptical way of dealing with your announcements. The problem with the appointment of the Supervisory Board is quite profound, Mr President. What the law suggests is that you have modelled a structure like that of the European Central Bank that you really want to depoliticize, that you want to avoid in some way ties to parties by providing for a relatively long term of office and a self-completion of the Supervisory Board. This attempt to generate a certain degree of independence from the Supervisory Board is not so bad at first on the paper. Of course, it is important in this context – I would call it that – that the Supervisory Board should be first set up, namely those ten people who are now actually sitting there as capital representatives. What kind of people are these? - These are good people as managers. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Good! Top guys!]] No one disputed that. [[Abg. Fischl: That's what we want!]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I have never disputed that Mr Ditz or Mr Streicher – and as they are all called – were or were good managers. It was never the problem of the proportion that only "full suitcases" had been selected. This has not been the case in the past, nor has my knowledge ever claimed anyone. [[Abg. Böhacker: What's that supposed to mean?]] The problem was quite another, namely the political pro-poor occupation. And what do we have here? . We do not have a political proportional occupation, but – that is what I have already said to Mr Prinzhorn in committee – we have a takeover of the ÖIAG by Prinzhorn friends. This is not a traditional politicization, it is not a proporation in the old sense, but that is perhaps a most modern – I want to put it under quotations – "nepotism". [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] [[New appeal to the Greens and SPÖs.]] Of course you can accuse me of coming only from the university and having no idea of the practice. That's why I'm going to read to you what a totally unwarranted witness says, who doesn't have much on the hat with the greens. It is Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals as well as the abg. Dr. Khol.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But he is not unsuspecting!]] In this case, I wish he was still present in the National Council and could tell you for yourself. He was first proposed by you, by FPÖ and ÖVP, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, as you know and heard. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: According to stock law this is possible!]] And then you killed him. What has Mr Haselsteiner to say on this subject? The future Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG is the Board of Directors of the Prinzhorn private foundation. This presupposes a first rank of trust, one that is far closer than a close relationship resulting from belonging to one and the same party. - Quote. That's the problem now. And that's what you call depoliticization? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a bad quote!]] This is to a certain extent formally correct. But did you really want this kind of nepotization with depoliticization? - I have to imagine that now. I wanted to say I can't imagine that, but that's a fact. These are dependencies of a whole new kind whose disadvantages of old politicization are in no way in any way lagging behind. I don't want to address the rest of the people. It is known that another member of the board of directors of the Prinzhorn private foundation is a member of the Supervisory Board. This is not a shame in itself, but it is worth mentioning in this context that Mr Mitterbauer, President of the Industrial Association, is also a member of the Prinzhorn private foundation and has refused to become a member of the ÖIAG Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Is he also a member?]] Is there a connection or not? – Incompatibilities Mr Mitterbauer has seen in one form or another. That's what I call correctly. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! In other words: You didn't pass the first test. That is why there must be great distrust of what you intend to do about ÖIAG in the future. I do not want to deal with technical details that seem to me to be a legal accident in the draft law – I have already mentioned this at the committee meeting – mainly with regard to various provisions relating to the Supervisory Board, which concerns the appointment, in particular the appointment of members. You didn't take this into account. This is included in the final version as well as in the first draft. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, another important point. In the Committee we discussed this and invited the experts to say how the role of the nuclear shareholder and the so-called strategic co-owners is. The view of the experts, as far as I can remember, was relatively homogeneous. This role is considered important, even if, of course, there have been deviations in detail insofar as a core shareholder does not necessarily have to have 25 percent plus a share. If the shares are scattered accordingly – and I do not need to explain this to Mr. Prinzhorn – a much lower share than these 25 percent plus a share can also be met. Apart from that – I find it quite interesting as someone coming from the university – the statistical evidence is not clear. The empirical studies – which Professor Clemenz told us – show that companies are generally growing faster with a stable core shareholder, but in reality this can be a statistical artifact. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: As long as it's not the state!]] What is empirically well proven is that young companies grow faster than old-age and especially young companies usually have a stable core shareholder, namely the founder, so that one phenomenon can cover up the other totally, and in reality it doesn't matter as much to the core shareholder as to the question of the company's "older" – under quotation. In any case, it should be: If the role of the core shareholder is considered important – in any case, except for other – because it largely determines the headquarters functions, I ask: What about the biggest crumbling of privatisation – that is still unexplained – namely, Telekom Austria? – This is unexplained, ladies and gentlemen! There is a core shareholder, namely the Telecom Italia with 25 percent plus a share. If you do what you have publicly explained, namely total stock exchange privatisation – public society plus core shareholder – Telekom Austria, then, so to speak, the Telecom Italia as a core shareholder simply remains and dominates the company – on the contrary, I have nothing; that is perhaps all right anyway, I would talk to the managers of Telekom Austria – although she bought only a quarter and not the whole company. It is still unclear whether and in what way there are purchasing rights or syndicate contracts with Telecom Italia. The spokesperson of the Telecom Italia has said that there are already contracts, but not in the event that total privatisation is planned. But that's the problem. If you want to sell 75 percent minus a share and the Telecom Italia remains – perhaps a desired core shareholder – you certainly don't sell for the price of 25 percent plus a share. Mr. Prinzhorn looks at me so dubiously. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: There you have to ask the Social Democrats!]] I expect an answer from you. You made the law, not the Social Democrats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10762	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10783	Mr President of the Council! The call for the state is nothing new. The help of the social partners is always quoted, but you are a lonely caller in the desert internationally. You know that very well. The state is everywhere on the retreat where industry and the economy are successful. No one can afford the burden from the shareholder state worldwide in areas where the state has lost nothing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What you are actually doing is to remorse the possibilities that the board and the union had in inheritance, for example, the occupation of the position of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the ÖIAG, in which you can no longer vote for the first time in post-war history. In fact, it is only about posts and influence, but not about the well-being of employees and entrepreneurs, Mr President Vergestnich. [[Abg. Grade: Calculated by you!]] There is no international day when, in countries such as Italy, railway stations in the major cities are not privatized and billions of money is being supplied to the state. [[Abg. Edlinger: Very interesting!]] It's probably bothering you that just bought Benetton. Please forgive me! Benetton's a little too big; I know you don't like that. What, though, is in Austria? – If you ask the ÖBB about this, what it looks like with the Austrian railway stations, you get the answer that the supply of sausages and newspapers is enough, there is no need for any shareholder who may even invest and make the railway stations attractions or otherwise a hocuspocus. This is just as it is with all other things: just no attraction, just no economic development, no innovation. This is your program, which you cry for, because the depoliticization of the nationalists will end. This not only has a signal effect for the ÖIAG, but also for everything else, which is not part of the state's core business. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You can see from the example of Argentina how the state withdraws from all areas that are not its core business. Do you know what happened in Argentina? – The Argentinean dollar has held one to one with the US dollar for ten years. In Argentina there is the withdrawal of the state! Look at the situation of the euro! In Europe, the state has even more to talk about in the economy than in other countries, such as Japan, the USA or South America. Austria is a leader in the state's influence in the economy. I say to you: For the location Austria these times are God be over! I congratulate the new government on this, because it has made an excellent law with the ÖIAG Act, which makes this development possible in Austria as well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We will be able to concentrate fully on the state's sovereign tasks, and we will be able to concentrate fully on the financial viability of social benefits. That's the task of this government, that's the heavy legacy we've taken over from you. As far as social benefits are concerned, unless it is childcare, whether it is pensions – the Minister of Social Affairs has already said it today – you have given us an inheritance to which the next generation will still have to bite, because the debts you have made without at the same time securing the social benefits, that is the square of the circle that must be brought together first. The dynamics is increasing worldwide. High-tech industries are in demand, high-tech professionals are in demand. I wonder, Where is the nationalized industry? Where is she in the high-tech field? Where are the high-tech services? [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] In the ministries, take a look at the Internet service that you handed over to us after 30 years of social democratic leadership! Look Once you've reached this internet supply! There is no country in Europe that has such a poor supply level regarding the Internet, where there is no networking between the federal government and countries. Look at the situation in the courts and in the courts! Same bad situation everywhere! Is this the high-tech you're talking about, which is supposed to be the centre in the nationalized industry? What you've done in Austria in 30 years is to push the debt from zero to 1,700 billion schilling. That is what you have brought together, and for that we are paying a three-digit billion interest. I would be interested to see how many assets of the federal government, the countries and the municipalities have fallen at the expense of the taxpayer in this period without any return, without any guarantee of value, more or less disregarded, because if one assumes today that the nationalists have built 100 billion schilling mies, Zig thousands of jobs have been reduced, then I wonder: What about any schilling of the debt of the public hand, the 50 large in assets of the federal government, countries and municipalities, which have almost no return or at least no demonstrable return and no interest? This is your financial and economic policy! We have said this today also in the current hour: That's exactly what your policy has been. That is why we call for the withdrawal of the state. The example ÖIAG showed us how not to do it. We want to show you how to do it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I say it again: The privatisation programmes of the Social Democrats were very ambitious, but nothing has come out in the last ten years. Sound headlines, loud statements. When it came to converting the black CA to red bank Austria, it was the only year you have achieved your reprivatisation goals. [[Abg. Huber: Success story!]] Congratulations! You've really done that, but that's what started the end of your last coalition, because that's where you really overlaid it. I can tell you that. The proportion of the last ten years reads like the Who’s who of the Social Democratic officials and politicians. If I look at how you quickly sent Mr Ruttenstorfer to the OMV and quickly extended Mr Streicher's and Mr Ditz's Executive Board's agreement, Mr President, I congratulate your colleague Staribacher. But I think you've done a bear service to the country. That wasn't good. We liberals have promised that if we join the government, we will begin to withdraw from the economy. With the objectivization of the post award, there is for the first time an ÖIAG Supervisory Board, in which no one deserves even a schilling in his life through a political function or through a political activity or has only taken some position there. You have never brought together comparable social democratic leadership in 30 years. There is a good example in Carinthia. For example, I am thinking only of the objectivity in the state administration by the head of state Haider, also in the Carinthian schools under the title "Proport regulations of the federal government as a restriction of the countries". [[Abg. Huber: There's loud blue!]] These are things that we have put before you that are undisputed. Mrs Mertel, who is not here today, said that the personnel decisions were nothing but red out, blue pure. [[Abg. Huber: There you have to laugh yourself!]] That's exactly what Mrs. Mertel has to say! Mrs Mertel has, after all, been appointed Head of the State of Haider. Mr Wrulich has also been appointed Head of State. I could call you names of people who have been appointed under our leadership. "Red out, blue in" can't be a talk. We're carrying out the lens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Fairy fairy tale at half past three!]] The fact that this draft law also includes the future of the Supervisory Board is very important. One thing's clear to me: Hardly any change could take place in this country – you could also experience it in England – you want to lead everything back again. You want to re-governmentalize, you want your influence again. The new Supervisory Board is a guarantee that this will not be as easy as possible. The depoliticisation of the ÖIAG will continue to exist in the future. And what will the Supervisory Board do? – He will make a portfolio analysis, then one will see how the positions of the individual companies of the ÖIAG are in competition. He will use the works councils, he will attract the employees to question the potential of the employees and not that of the officials, because the capital in this country and also in the ÖIAG are all the employees, not the politicians and not even the officials. This law will primarily serve to bring dynamics into the way that free resources are also used, especially in human capital, and that we set priorities necessary to strengthen the Austrian stock market. To this end, we will also provide for a wide distribution of employee shares. We think this is very important, for a thing you never thought of. I remember when I first wanted to introduce an employee into my company. At that time, the Chamber of Labour and the Trade Union sent me all the laws for which reasons one should not do so. You shouldn't do it – probably so that people don't get mediocre, can't say it, but the officials, and no one else, are celebrating happy origins in the co-determination. Telekom Austria, Print Media AG, Flughafen Wien AG, P.S.K. – These are all old hats that have long been privatized. Only the monopoly gains that the Print Media makes in security pressure, which only serve to undermine competition, are a good example of how to illegally intervene in the market using means of taxation. We don't want all of this. But also in those areas where the state remains a core shareholder with 25 percent, we believe that we must be careful not to be dissatisfied with the harm of taxpayers. You may be familiar with Mr Czipin's study, which has been researched worldwide but also in Austria. Read the following: "The role of the State as a core shareholder has severely affected the development of the stock exchange of the partially privateized ÖIAG companies. This is reflected in a study carried out by Czipin & Partners. A careful estimate results in a total loss of stock exchange capitalisation of around 100 billion. S...." In the end, too, this is the tax payer's own resources, which would be urgently needed for pension reform today and for much more, what you have given us to problems and necessary structural reforms that we now need to solve as quickly as possible. Whenever the State remains a core shareholder, the stock prices remain dependent. You're afraid of takeovers, so the state has to stay involved. So the cat bites in the tail. As long as the State is involved, the stock price will remain below. This is in principle the system of perpetuum mobile of state influence, and that is now the end. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I agree with Mr Sekyra, who has, unfortunately, already died. This one has the question: "The cleaning up will end with the proporz division in the economy?" said – I quote –: "As long as the state is the owner of a company, it will always put people out of its sphere of influence there. They are the lender of the berth. That's what it was, and it will always be. Everything else would be against nature." - Quote. That's the way you've done politics! [[Abg. Huber: And now there are supervisory councils of graces of Princehorns!]] The business location needs dynamic businesses, especially in the "New Economy" sector! You know that very well. In an article published today by Mr Urschitz, which is really not a great friend of ours, you can read – I quote – the following: "We are extremely low in the 'New Economy' sectors, which are driving the economy everywhere in the industrialized countries. And we rank 46 among 47 listed countries at the company's start-ups." - Quote. And this with a flagship ÖIAG, which is almost zero in the "New Economy". The real sufferers are the employees! The quality of the employees is the largest capital we have in this country. And it will be the most important task to promote these employees and ultimately provide them with framework conditions for jobs corresponding to their skills. This is the biggest accusation I'm making to you: You have operated Schindluder with our human capital – I almost want to say. [[Abg. Silhavy: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Well, well, well!]] And that is very important to me personally, because the employees who are constantly suffering from the reduction of jobs are considered to be such a kind of second-class person, according to the motto: The nationalized can't do anything, they only make losses! [[Abg. Forbidden: Who says that?]] [[Abg. Huber: You said that!]] You have to put yourself in that! This is, unfortunately, the track record you have. You've made losses there of hundreds of billions of schilling, and you've dismantled staff there. Not least, this happened in the Telekom area. Mr Kanzler Klima has still guaranteed on television that no one should be afraid of his job! - 12,000 people have broken you down! And that's why you miscredited these companies. They are therefore responsible to the employees. And we will continue to make this accusation for you throughout the whole legislative period. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Insecurity in the workforce is poison! And as long as politically motivated businesses are involved, such uncertainty prevails. With this new ÖIAG law is over. Less policy means more development, not only for stock prices, but – which is even more important to me – for employees in the companies. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11018	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11039	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! I cannot ignore dealing with the subject without referring to the comments made by my previous speakers. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who is not in the Chamber at the moment, has spoken of the ÖIAG as a success story. I'll give him the right. But why is she a success story, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Because it was privatized!]] It is a success story – and this was written to you, Mr. Principal, in the main book – because of the fact that intelligent privatisation was carried out, but a state share remained, because the employees, Mr. Kukacka, helped, and because the board of directors worked together with the staff. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Kukacka]] That's why it was and is a success story! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And what, esteemed government coalitionaries, do you plan with the employees? – It is not possible for me to speak as noblely as Mr Van der Bellen, I say it in Styria: They're the employees "wurst"! And we reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Mr President, Mr Stummvoll also said that the state was a bad businessman, that the state was bad for companies. – I come from the Obersteiermark, where there is a high-tech company, Mr Prinzhorn, namely the UAE. This could be saved before a hostile foreign takeover by De Dietrich, a French group. Do you know, Mr. Prinzhorn, of whom? – From the ÖIAG, because no one else would have been able to do so. I ask you: Who will save these high-tech companies in the future? Who? The Prince's Foundation? Thank you! We don't want that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can therefore only repeat what President Vergestnich has said from this point of view: The core shareholder role of the ÖIAG is an absolute necessity, a must and also a demand that we continue to put forward, which we support, which we also demonstrate in requests. However, my previous speaker said something. Mr Prinzhorn said that the state was not in demand in good private enterprises. I refer to a "Kurier" article of 17. April of this year, written by Reinhard Göweil. This is related to a statement by Mr. Prinzhorn – I quote: "Well, I share your concerns about public money. However, as I remember, your companies were able to overcome a difficult phase because the state-owned FGG took over capital guarantees." – End of the quote. So the state is very much in demand, but when it comes to doing something for the employees, something better than you did at Brigl & Bergmeister or in your other companies, the state is not asked. That's what we're talking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President, Mr Prinzhorn has also said that he or you will show us how to do it. – They show us how to do it! You show it to us with the Supervisory Board, in which you, under the guise of depoliticization, the abolition of the proportion, are actually monocoloring, in which you, Mr Finanzminister, are setting up a ropework of friends from your area and that of Mr Prinzhorn, who will make the decisions in the future in the Supervisory Board, including when, how much and who is privatized. I wonder, Who's gonna get the raisins out of there? Could that be the Prince's private foundation? Can the father of the foundation be useful? Is that your type of depoliticization? We also say "rejoicing thanks" for this and we will act against it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another comment on the appointment of these Supervisory Boards, ladies and gentlemen. It would have been much more honest if you had said – and that has already been mentioned – that the previous supervisory councils should go, because they do not fit into your concept. – But you did the following: They have made an invitation to tender and then commissioned the third best bidder – comically, he is also a friend, at whose wedding Mr. Prinzhorn was even a witness, "at random" –. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: There are coincidences!]] This headhunt actually finds "good" supervisory councils. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Was that the wedding company?]] I really do not want to be negative about the qualification of these supervisory councils as my previous speakers. But: These Supervisory Boards all come from a certain corner, namely the Prinzhorn Friendship Group, a ropeship that may not be held together by membership of a party, but by intense male friendships. Ladies and gentlemen! This cannot be in the interests of this country's industrial policy! That's just your interest. Admit yourself to that, you have the courage! Be manly enough to confess that this is your new way of governing, your new way of politics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: This is now the hunting company of Mr. Prinzhorn, the hunt for the workers...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are also concerned with workers – the workers who have successfully led these businesses – and it is therefore important to us how the participation of these workers, i.e. the posting of representatives to the Supervisory Board, is regulated. Since there is no such arrangement in the present government template, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment is intended to ensure that members of the Supervisory Board who have been sent by workers' organisations and thus ensure the participation of workers in these undertakings, not by the General Assembly, cannot be called out by the companies, but in fact only by the workers they have sent. I am convinced that this amendment will also be accepted by Mr Gaugg and his group by the Liberal Party, particularly Mr Gaugg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11211	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11235	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Today's novel of the ÖIAG law on the final privatisation of the old national states, it finally said goodbye to an antiquated and backward economic policy, which was based on the state's influence, as it was in the 1970s, and which simply did not want to take note of the global liberalisation of markets and also the globalisation of international economic relations. Ladies and gentlemen! What the Social Democratic Party operates with its present rejection of this law is the economic policy confirmation of its programmatic left-wing truck after the design of Gusenbauer as the party president. I've said it before: Ideological monument care for an economic policy concept that simply didn't pass its political test – that's the Quintessence of your attitude. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gradwelt! You have said that you agree that the past privatisation was a success story. To do this, I have to tell you: They have always agreed to this prior privatisation only under the pressure of economic conditions, namely under the pressure of the billions of losses made by the state-owned industry. That is why you agreed at the time to this privatisation concept, which was originally pursued by the ÖVP, and not by economic conviction! That's the problem, and that's what you've got again today. I still have the words spoken by Mr Ruhoudinger and Mr Koppler well in the ear, their wretched words warning against this privatisation. These two did not agree, but sometimes even went out of the vote because they did not want to identify with privatisation. And you haven't deviated from this attitude to this day. Ladies and gentlemen! I come from a core country of the national industry, from Upper Austria. We all know that a large part of the SPÖ and its trade unions have always considered the nationalized industry to be their political loan. They and their central works councils were the true power factor in these businesses. And the loss of this political loan is indeed what has caused you to become an irresponsible panic against this privatisation in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen! The unscrupulous "consumer" pleas that the SPÖ cooperatives have caused, the debacle of the state, the AMAG pleas that have cost the Austrian taxpayers all in all about 110 billion schilling and have also brought about the loss of over 50,000 jobs – and take note of that! – that the state and the socialist trade union groups cannot operate, that they cannot run businesses. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 100 000 jobs!]] That is why we must say goodbye to this conception. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Huber: How much did private pleas cost taxpayers?]] Mrs. Colleague! Why, then, did you not tell your voters and officials in the course of the workers' chamber elections that they too, as Austrian taxpayers, have to pay up to the turn of the millennium for this desastrous national policy of Kreisky and your national government ministers? That's the reality! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the privatisation of state-owned companies is useful and correct not only proves foreign studies and the domestic experience, but also the expert hearing has proved to be impressive. [[Abg. Huber: But not this privatisation!]] You, too, took part in it. And if you have listened well to the expert, you have to note that the vast majority of experts and professionals have expressly expressed their support for this privatisation and also for this law. [[Abg. Huber: Of course! I listened exactly, probably better than you!]] [[Abg. Huber: Obviously you haven't heard much!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Huber: All the concerns have been expressed!]] Even Member of Parliament In his remarks in this expert hearing, Van der Bellen pointed out – and for this I am very grateful to him – that economists have now demonstrated that state-owned companies usually do harder than private companies. - Well, that's it! Take note of this and continue with us this reasonable path of privatisation, as we propose here! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me say the following: The privatisation sought by the Federal Government must – we attach special importance to it – also be taken as an occasion for employee participation. This employee participation, which has so far been a part of the children's shoes in Austria, must be given a new impetus through this privatisation. It is intended to enable employees to acquire preferential tax-advanced shares. This opportunity must not be rejected, for we have always felt by the Austrian People's Party that private ownership of means of production creates economic independence, protects against collective prejudice, creates an important incentive for self-realization and also leads to identification with the company. That is why we have always been in favour of large-scale asset formation and also for the corresponding participation of employees in their companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Therefore, I would like to stress that we are going to decide on a committee setting out that in the implementation of privatisations, the participation of employees in the company to be sold will be foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen! I am, honestly, horrified at the fact that the trade unions and the Social Democratic Party obviously do not want to agree with this project. It is probably economic independence, which the SPÖ and their trade union fear. They are afraid that employees as shareholders could emancipate from the SPÖ trade union and perhaps feel less like members of the trade union, but rather as members of their company. And that's what you want to prevent with all force! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That's why you're voting against the employee participation. [[Abg. Huber: You still didn't understand anything!]] This makes you clear about the interests of the employees, the employees in these companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There is no reason for this concept, and there is no reason at all to reject the idea of employee participation and thus miss out on the trend of time. On the contrary: We confess to this and will ensure that the employee participation is implemented as part of the privatisation process.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11390	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11412	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I'd like to report to you a little bit from the committee. In the Committee's debate, there have been remarkable sentences, for example by Mr Prinzhorn, who has delivered a classic Freud's promise. We already know them from the liberal tradition of Mr Krüger, this time it was Mr. Prinzhorn, who has almost "constructed" a classic Freud's promiser, because it is better not to formulate it. He referred to the address of the opposition parties, I quote: And that's why fear. You are in favour of liberal – eh – enemy takeovers. - Quote. That is the point, too, my colleague. Van der Bellen mentioned this already. In view of the new composition of the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG, it is obviously about a free takeover or – even more defined – a takeover by the members of the Principal Foundations. That's the one point. But I come to another remarkable sentence – there are many remarkable sentences that could be filled with a collection of quotations – from the Committee. This is how Dr. Walter Springer, nominated by the liberals, meant that it is possible to philosophize whether privatisation is good or not – it is simple. – Yes, obviously: She's simple. There is, as it were, no longer a task to define the framework where privatisation can be privatized, where it makes sense to privatize, but it has to take note that privatization is being privatized, and it also has no assessment of whether privatisation is good in all areas. Seamlessly to this remark by Dr. As a result, Mr Maderthaner could be quoted as saying that the state was never a good businessman. – In reverse, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you: The private are not always just good entrepreneurs. But you know that yourself. And above all, it would be good for this Parliament to define also the limits where to privatize and where and where not. Are areas such as health, social affairs, housing, education, culture released for privatisation? Is that what Mr Maderthaner wanted to say? Or are there limits? Do you not also see, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, that, although privatizations could be successful, even if, for example, the example of the British privatisations in the field of waterworks, in the field of public transport, were associated with such serious shortcomings, so that this was from the outset a sale of public property at dumping prices? You want to follow this example in part. The serious shortcomings in the privateized waterworks, the privatized railways, have now proved to be so large and serious that a number of incidents, of accidents that have caused headlines in recent years, especially in the UK, have been closely linked to the lack of care given to these private operators in their businesses, with a lack of care in these companies. The same could be said about the example of privatized airlines in the US and other countries. There are good examples, but there are also bad companies. And I think it would be good for us to clarify in Parliament the framework and limits of private management. Now, however, I would like to give you an example that clearly demonstrates that in your privatisation euphoria you have completely cut the frame. There's the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of 19. The budget for the successful company for operations in Austria, the Austrian Business Agency – a state company – is reduced by more than 20 percent. They are all the while talking about the fact that businesses, private businesses, are to be brought into being, and now the budget is going to be reduced by 20 percent by exactly that company that has successfully pre-existed in recent years, how to do it, and that it is to do it, and that it can also be done through a public order! That's your business settlement policy, that's your employment policy, that's your privatisation policy? – That can't be true, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] That really can't be true: "Cooling with the workers". [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] Mr Khol! I can provide you with a copy if you cannot read it at this distance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I read it!]] This is your policy, and this is also the consequence of a privatisation euphoria, which becomes apparent from the example of Deutsche Telekom. I mean, it's clear, ladies and gentlemen: From Deutsche Telekom's strategic shareholder, Telecom Italia, with a stroke by the privatisation you make, the core shareholder, who can determine at 25 plus a share to 100 percent what is happening in this company. You obviously have no other option than to privatize totally, because you have the opportunity to sell to a third party through the syndicate contracts. What is the consequence? – We hear it from the government bank: People's shares. Every Austrian, each Austrian should acquire a Telekom share as possible. Yes, Mr Khol, I would like to say one thing: This concept of the popular share on Deutsche Telekom's example could also be referred to as a "deppen tax", because of this, ladies and gentlemen, because these many people who are said to be the owner of Telekom Austria with the acquisition of a Telekom share are pre-accumulated, they would actually be owners. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: German Telekom has quadrupled the value!]] Of course, these 75 percent minus a share have no ownership available – the Telecom Italia has 25 plus one percent. You know for yourself that it makes a difference whether you are the owner of a stock or whether you also have a ownership available, whether you have co-determination opportunities in a shareholder meeting, whether you have access to the stock. You know that. That is to say, your concept of privatisation in the example of Telekom Austria has failed, and you should at least be better informed in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11479	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11501	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! According to a poll conducted by the Gallup Institute, it has been made quite clear: A clear majority is for the privatisation plans. Not that you, Mr President Ververtnich, now believe that this opinion is based on survey results for self-employed, entrepreneurs and economic operators, but the survey has shown that, according to Karmasin, many workers expect more prospects for privatisation which the state cannot offer them. By the way, only 15 percent are against the privatisation of the close-to-state enterprises. 15 percent! The large proportion of workers are for privatisation. Mr President of the Council! They have also criticised the failure of this government template to have been subject to appropriate review. But they themselves know exactly how the previous government has dealt with such assessments. [[Abg. I don't know, who?]] Let me give you an example: The ÖIAG Act, ÖIAG Finance Law Novelle 1993, BGBl. No. 973/1993 – Own-initiative application, no review. At that time, the proposal was submitted as an initiative. ==References== Mr President, on 3 December, I shall come to the point of order. ==References====External links== It was discussed in the Financial Committee on 17 December and discussed on 17 December. It was decided by the National Council on 1 December. The content was – so this is not about Lapidares –: § 1 (3): "The corporate structure of Austrian Industries AG is abandoned" – that was not without –; "The Austrian Industries Group is divided into several independent companies and groups of companies under company law. The Austrian Industries Aktiengesellschaft must be transferred to the company by means of merger by inclusion." – So that wasn't a easy thing to do. You did this here in plenary without an evaluation. You want to accuse us that a government template will be carried out without consideration. This government template has been reviewed. The opinions from the Chamber, the Chamber of Workers and the like have also been collected. They say now – we have always done so! – Mr President, you criticise the composition of the Supervisory Board and believe that the composition of the Supervisory Board is more arbitrary; the Supervisory Board members are entrepreneurs, managing directors and individuals with many years of experience in economic life. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Furthermore, you suggest that it would have been preferable for you to include auditors, experts in labour and social law or experts in securities law such as economic researchers. – You can also talk about it. However, if you say that it is quite self-confident to note that the Federal Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB have employees who have many years of experience in economic life, if you want to put these into play, Mr President Vergestnich, then I must say that you are bringing yourself out of the game. I can tell you one thing: Especially the members who led the "consumer" have proved that SPÖ members cannot operate.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11544	Mr Mag. Trattner, I am now interrupting the debate on this item on the agenda so that the urgent request requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure Deputies Dr. Andreas Khol, Mag. Karl Schweitzerund colleagues on "Consens in Rot-Weiß-Rot" (132/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11578	We thus reach the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 132/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, his reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11678	I call Mr Khol, first of all, to speak as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11699	Mr President. High Members of the Federal Government! The Liberals and the People's Party today make a urgent request to the Federal Government. The EU-14's unfair and non-contractive measures against Austria must be removed quickly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the SPÖ? - Just for the protocol!]] These measures threaten European integration. They are deeply unjust to our people, and they are deeply unjust to our government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We used to talk about the national shoulder closure. This word, an allusion, an unwanted allusion to "The last days of humanity" by Karl Kraus, has stimulated some members of the opposition. It is so much for us to achieve a red and white-red consensus of this House against these unjust measures that we no longer want to talk about the national end of the shoulder. We want to meet you and ask you: Make a red and white consensus with us against these unjust measures! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What measures do we call for from our Federal Government? – It can only be said by everyone if we say that Austria is to demand and fulfil all the rights and obligations of the EU Treaty. It can only be said by everyone if we demand that these sanctions be lifted against our people, against our government as soon as possible! It can only be said by everyone if we believe that we have a right to the fact that those partners with whom we are associated in the European Union meet with respect, respect and on the basis of the Treaty provisions! And it can only be said by everyone if we call on the Federal Government to take all political and legal action against these measures! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And it can only be said that anyone in this House, who is a representative or a representative of the Austrian people, can only say if we take the view that there should no longer be such a feme procedure, as was applied against us, in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You will rightly ask: What's "necessary"? We have this shoulder closure, we have discussed this red and white consensus for the long time! Why are the two parties, the Freeman and the People's Party coming back today? – Ladies and gentlemen! As long as these sanctions exist, this question is urgent, and we will repeatedly call on this House to help to end this discrimination at last. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Why are we dealing with the National Council today, in April? – In May, the preparatory work will take place for the next major European summit in Porto. It is the party-internationals who have a meaning. A unanimous decision by this House would be essential to convince those countries that are not yet convinced that these measures are bad, unconstitutional and unfair. A unanimous decision – and I appeal to the Greens and the Socialists – would be an essential contribution to ending these sanctions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] 75 percent of all Austrians – 75 percent of all Austrians! – consider these measures unfair and want to see them terminated as soon as possible. Even half of the voters of the opposition parties feel as much as 100 percent of those of the government parties. I therefore ask the Greens and the Social Democrats – I say it very consciously: Forget party-tactic considerations, be people's representatives, and accept this urgent request! I ask Alfred Gusenbauer and Alexander [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's not here!]] Van der Bellen, who calls himself patriots – and I do not agree with you – to act as patriots and support this urgent request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The adoption of this urgent request – I say that so that there is no misunderstanding even there – is by no means a blank check or a support for those reform projects of our government that the Greens and the Socialists may reject. Not at all! It is not a recognition of the government programme! No, it is a gathering behind the concerns of the Austrian people that one comes to him with respect that one comes to him with respect, and it would be a gathering behind justice, and for this justice I ask you and your political groups. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These measures are a damage to our people, and the population suffers. We could fill a whole compendium with the list of unfair treatment of our scientists, our youth, our representatives, our diplomats abroad, our public servants, our ministers. But others, ladies and gentlemen, have also found that these measures mean serious damage to the European integration work. Since I have been politically active – in fact much earlier – I have been a convinced European federalist. As a university assistant, I have already joined my revered teacher, Professor Ermacora, for a European state. For me, it is a deep blow, which in this context is supposed to be – to be! . in order to secure a European community of values to which European unification is undertaken. I do not quote myself, but I quote from the article by Berthold Kohler in the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung", which appeared in the main editorial article on 14. April wrote: "The EU's reputation has suffered in many countries, especially those who still want to become members. Because there are still serious doubts about the causes of the crusade against Austria: With the precedentless, codified as well as unwritten rules of dealing within the EU, disdainful interference in the democratic will-building process of a member country, the fourteen violate precisely those European fundamental values of democracy and the rule of law that they supposedly want to protect. It contradicts any sense of law and Europe, a democratically proven country like Austria, which cannot be imagined from the history of this continent, from the European community of values, which the EU understands to be – without any violation of European law or even of its spirit. ... The idea of Europe, on whose behalf Austria is being punished, has not only been tried for its own sake: It was also used for other purposes." - Quote. I would recommend everyone to read this article. These EU sanctions are a damage to European integration! Yes, why do you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in the Danish Parliament a close-up of all the parties represented there has taken place against these EU sanctions? – But not only because we Austrians are sympathetic to the Danes and because they hold up the right idea – they do – but because they know precisely that their referendum for the euro is at risk in autumn, because people there say: This cannot be the European community of values which gives a freely elected government to the pranger! Why do we pursue these operations in Brussels with great concern in Switzerland? - Because there is also a referendum in front of you. The damage done by these EU measures to the European integration work must also be considered. Mr Gusenbauer, you discussed the European peace movement. You're a European. Mr Van der Bellen! They traveled as an Austrian patriot to avoid damage. [[Abg. Oillinger: What did you say about these trips earlier? – "Mistkubel" have been poured out!]] If we are to avoid damage to the European agreement, that should also be your concern! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Van der Bellen! I now turn to the greens very specifically. I have followed with attention that you personally have not followed the course of your honourable Member Voggenhuber, the democratically elected representative in this House, as fascists. I have your careful consideration in the They call the liberals right-wing populist and have not classified them with other, more repugnant epitheta, very closely. Mr Van der Bellen, please show that it is serious to you that these are not just signals, but that you, as a patriot, are really saying a yes to the EU that you support the end of EU sanctions against our government and against our people and that you are in favour of this procedure, which you have represented in your own request! Make it clear what it is about you! Mr Gusenbauer! I would also like to contact you. You have also made a request with other Members of your group. This urgent request differs from our request in a number of essential points. The first paragraph is read as follows: You too are for the European Union, and that is not the case with anyone. However, you do not object to EU sanctions in your application. We have avoided any debt allocation in our request. I would also like to keep this from the speaker's desk. We have not asked why these EU sanctions against Austria have come about. [[Abg. Oillingers: Compared to the media, you have shown far less restraint for this!]] We have not said which questions are still open, which I have asked again and again – four times already – and today not put, because I advertise your voice because I advertise for your understanding, because I think you should take the opportunity to rip the row around. You are expected to be chairman of your party at the end of this week. It is the "SPÖ old" who welcomed these EU sanctions, which have called these EU sanctions justified. Show that there is a "SPÖ new", led by Alfred Gusenbauer, who is a patriotic SPÖ who opposes these EU sanctions and who identifies with the people! That would be a real act, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Your request is also substantially different from ours in a second point, in which you are very likely to make debt allocations and to blame for these EU sanctions on the government's participation in the Freedom Party and to ask us, from the Federal Government, to distance ourselves from it. What does that mean? – That means you want to blow the government by means of this resolution. This gives rise to the true intention of this request, namely to the Austrian Government, with the help of the EU sanctions abroad, and to disregard the will of the representatives of the people in this House. This government is not being sprung from abroad, and this government is not being overthrown abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer! They gave some remarkable signals during the week of the week. The SPÖ leadership troika, consisting of you, Mr Kostelka and President Fischer, has distanced itself from the previous rejection of a common procedure, and you have given signals that we, Mr Westenthal and I, have qualified as an initial change of strategy. I beg you to take a course out of the signals! You have the opportunity to do this today. We hope and expect from you that the Party Day will be held on 28 May. A clear rejection of these sanctions of the EU-14 is on April 14. And there will also be a test for your leadership qualities and for the SPÖ course, which will be your foreign guests of International Social Democracy at this party day on Austrian soil right on the day following the Austrian Independence Day, 27th. April, say. You've invited her, you're responsible for what's being said there. We'll take a very close look at this. Mr Gusenbauer! Strengthen the rumors, allegations, assumptions, speculations that these EU measures have been planned, implemented and supported by the Socialist International. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I believe that when the four points of this urgent request are adopted, clarity is created. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Get some information!]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: What about Chirac?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I therefore call Patriot Van der Bellen and Patriot Alfred Gusenbauer: Picture this red-white-red consensus! We will ask for or request a roll call, so that everything appears clearly in the Minutes. Everyone can vote as they please. We will see where national consensus is at home and where not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Certainly not with you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make three final remarks. The first one is a completely trivial one. Mr Kostelka said today in the early morning that the Austrian People's Party had also received a loan from the SPÖ Federal Party Organisation at the Steiermärkische Sparkasse. I would like to inform you of the following: Chief of State Klasnic informed me. There was a loan in 1990, which was repaid in 1996. There is neither a credit from the Federal Party nor the Styrian People's Party at this savings bank, which is a very serious and good institution. First point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How was that with the cardhouse scandals? This one's broken down anyway!]] You always have to be correct in the details, especially in financial matters, Mr Kostelka, because if you are not correct in the details, you get problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another comment: Mr. Gusenbauer, you've been in the "Small Newspaper" of 13th century. The government is taking an absolute authoritarian course, not only in the social field, but also in the field of democracy. I still have you on 13 November. April a letter was written and you asked to distance yourself from it because an authoritarian course would be a constitutional breach. You probably had to worry about many other things. I have not received an answer to this letter until today. I would be grateful for an answer from this speaker's desk. Finally, Mr Gusenbauer – so that you can see how volatile the time is – I can read something from your dissertation about what happened to me when I heard about the "brown spots" and your comments on Bruno Kreisky. You wrote literally in this thesis in 1987: I dedicate this work to those politicians who, like no other, have shaped the history of the Second Republic and who today is exposed to the most pitiful accusations of small spirits: Bruno Kreisky.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11960	In order to make a statement, the Federal Chancellor has made a statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11981	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. It will not surprise you that, on behalf of the Federal Government, I expressly welcome the intention of the two political groups to actively support government work and to give us today, by means of a urgent request, a back cover to demand the fourteen to abolish sanctions. I believe that this proposal is also very balanced and smartly formulated. This request reads as follows: We'll invite you. Austria is committed to the European Union, Austria is calling for an end to the unjust sanctions, and Austria will propose a rule-of-law procedure in order to ensure that sanctions no longer depend on arbitrariness or political arbitrariness in the future. – Who could reject this? today writes a commentator of the "Salzburger Nachrichten", and I agree with him and also ask the question: Who can reject such an application? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is essentially a necessary joint statement from the state-political point of view, which we can send today to the 14 partners in Europe. I think that it is not only Austria – of course, it is clear to us; it is particularly upsetting us because we suffer with our country and because we identify ourselves with the fate of our country and also with the politics of our country in a special way – but it is a lot more today, it is also about Europe. Someone I know very well and very much appreciate, who was elected Chairman of the CDU a few days ago, Angela Merkel, expressed this in her remarkable speech before the CDU party. She said – I quote –: For me, it is clear that if the European Union states, their Heads of State and Government continue to follow a path they have taken towards Austria in recent weeks and months, the Europe of the future will not be a Europe of citizens. - Quote. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the reason why in many parliaments, especially in those smaller countries, almost something like a national consensus has arisen that such a Europe, the centralist, without the rule of law and without democratic procedures, does not want to proceed. That is why it is not only about us, but also about Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We started our work almost three months ago. I don't need to talk about the circumstances here, it was very difficult, everyone can imagine that. We have carried on a lot in these three months, not everything has already been completed, much is still in the parliamentary procedure, but we can already draw a first interim report. In these nearly three months, not only the Austrian public, but also the 14 governments of the other European partner countries were able to look closely at what is actually happening in Austria. They have had enough time to see whether their fears, their concerns, or not. It is also interesting that many differentiated voices are now being heard. Not only in the newspapers, in the most important journals in Europe, have very critical comments on sanctions been read, but also renowned politicians have spoken, and there have in turn been differentiated, positive voices for Austria in Ireland, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Greece, Luxembourg, but also in the large countries. I would like to thank, at this point, all Austrians who have written thousands of letters to me and the members of the Government who have written to the Members, how they feel and how they are suffering from this situation. Thank you all for writing us about this and giving us strength to endure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There were also celebrities such as former Federal Chancellor Josef Klaus or former trade union leader and longtime politician Franz Olah. Coming from a wide range of political camps, celebrities have made very personal, handwritten letters about this situation in our country and in Europe. I would like to thank them for that. However, I would also like to thank those who speak today before the French Senate, namely the President of the Austrian Constitutional Court, Adamovich. He's completely independent. He used to serve many chancellors, such as Julius Raab or Bruno Kreisky, and today he is an unspeakable guardian and guardian of the Austrian Constitutional Order. I thank him for taking the opportunity, by the way, at the invitation of the French Constitutional Judge, the socialist Senator Badinter – many know him – to defend Austria today in an exquisite and elaborate speech. That's important! We expect this from us, and we expect that from all those who have something to say! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I thank Prince Schwarzenberg, Paul Lendvai, Lord Weidenfeld or Professor Michalsky for making a very balanced and scored statement for Austria, which is not uncritical at all. I would like to thank everyone – Klaus Emmerich is also sitting on top of the gallery – the Austrian citizens who created a manifesto "Austria in Europe" and published it at their own expense. This is a civil society that will change the country for the better! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This manifesto is therefore very interesting, because it reminds many things that are so natural in Austria that they have almost forgotten some, also abroad. Austria has the sharpest anti-Nazi laws within the European Union. A racist party is unthinkable because of the Austrian legal order, because it would not be allowed to vote at all. Therefore, accusations as raised by some European ministers that a racist party is in the government in Austria are extremely problematic and must be rejected by everyone who is sincere in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no need for teaching in Austria, not even from countries which do not have the European Convention on Human Rights and the Additional Protocols in the constitutional order, which are therefore directly applicable law in Austria. The international agreements on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination – with its own constitutional implementing law – are directly open to the Constitutional Court. Thus, all the principles and principles set out in Article 6 of the Amsterdam Treaty – which, by the way, goes back to an initiative by myself and by Lamberto Dini – are clear and indictable Austrian law. Who else can show such a legal situation by the critics in Europe?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In contrast to the Austrian Constitutional Court, few European Supreme Courts have the opportunity to have extensive competence over all administrative acts, laws, regulations, individual decisions of administrative authorities, including all forms of discrimination, including those of particular sensitivity. Only a few know that. But perhaps it would also be a good idea to make the effort to see what is really going on in this small country in the heart of Europe, and to make judgments instead of prejudices, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] By the way, it is very important that 90 percent of the decisions of the Constitutional Court are based on the initiatives of individuals – very often on foreign citizens who feel discriminated in some way and can therefore go directly to the Constitutional Court. This is a legal system that we can be proud of and which some European countries should only imitate! I'm saying this because it's not natural, but it's important for us: Austria knows – apart from individual perpetrators – no violent outrages against foreigners or minorities. As long as we can breathe, we will do everything we can to ensure that this level of security for foreigners and foreigners is maintained. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Does not the President of the European Parliament know - I am saying this very clearly and strongly - what is in the European Parliament's own report? – After that, Austria is at the forefront of European countries in terms of human rights and the rule of law. I would have liked this to be heard from my President of the European Parliament and not from pre-conceptions against Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria was and is a host country for refugees and asylum seekers. In 1956 we received over 200 000 refugees from Hungary and in 1968 10,000 refugees from Czechoslovakia. We were transit country for 367,000 Jews from the Soviet Union, and in the 1990s hundreds of thousands of refugees came from the former Yugoslavia. We don't need to hide with our foreign share. We have 9.2 percent of foreigners in Austria. With more than 17 percent of legal foreigners from non-EU countries, Vienna has a much higher share than most European metropolises. If you do not know, you should inform yourself, but if you do not even want to inform yourself, please do not prejudice us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These measures or sanctions – I call them sanctions because I do not want things to be impoverished – are unheard of in the EU-14. They have never acted against a European country in this form since World War II. There are no bilateral visits between Austrian government members and the other 14 EU countries. Is that really appropriate? Is it not a problem that a representative of Russia can enter and go out in Downingstreet 10! - I don't have a chance. Is it a problem to shake hands with an Austrian minister, and it is not a problem for ministers of other countries that are far behind Austria in the development of democracy? Is this ethical foreign policy in the bilateral field, which some of the other 14 EU countries have actually undertaken? There are great questions, ladies and gentlemen. I am making this very clear, because these sanctions are all on us. They meet us as ministers, but they also meet the citizens, and they meet a whole country. It is not possible to distinguish between a government which has ultimately been elected through a democratic election and a people who have elected these parties. That's not true in democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] By the hour, 33 of our well-known joint cultural and scientific events have been cancelled. Yesterday a particularly absurd rejection was flattered on the table: It is a mixed European orchestra in which some Austrians are present, with the reason that Austrians are present. It was Spain. I have to say: Somewhere we wonder where the common canon of values is to be, to which we are constantly referring. Six Socrates programmes have been cancelled. Even common archaeology programs are threatened by the rejection. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The representatives of the Socialist Party are still happy! They're happy!]] We have the consequences in the economic and tourism sectors. Although these are not world-moving, I also say quite openly: How does a small hoteler or a small economic operator get to deal with these questions at all? – It should be known to those who always want to give the impression that the sanctions are not the people, but only the truly guilty, namely the government. This is one of the legends you need to destroy and reject permanently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austrian experts have been selected from management positions in the Council of Europe. There are many sitting here who know how to work in the Council of Europe. It is a shame that an expert, because he is Austrian, will no longer be able to chair the Doping Commission as Vice-President in the future. Where was the call, which can also be heard within the EU-14 and above all up to the Heads of Government who are ultimately responsible for all these measures, going up? I also say quite openly: In my opinion, the events at the opening of the European Union Monitoring Centre against Racism and Xenophobia were also a source of pity. You have to put these things, these titles almost under quotation marks. As the one who fought that this EU body is coming to Vienna at all, I found the way in which one has dealt with an Austrian minister. Actually – I have to say that openly – I would have expected a joint call from all Austrians in view of this process. I would have liked the President of the European Parliament to say something about this. I would also have expected the European Commission to be more than willing to keep quiet, because these things are also financed by Community funds. How objective can such a body be if it disregards the simplest laws of courtesy, of hospitality, but also the principles we constantly call upon? I say this very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The recent events – I was just informed – come back from Paris and, in turn, concern the Austrian ambassador. You remember, the French Parliament, the National Assembly invited everyone to a preparatory meeting for the French EU Presidency, with the exception of: The Austrian ambassador was explicitly invited. Then, after protests on our part, a calming came from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the Quai d’Orsay, which will be stopped, Austria will be fully informed. These are the Members of Parliament, but they will try to stop them. Today I received an information from the Austrian ambassador Ceska. ==References== April, there is another event in the National Assembly, a colloquium on – calculated – the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. All are invited to speak to ministers Guigou and Moskovici, all EU ambassadors, all ambassadors of the candidate countries are invited, the Austrian ambassador was not explicitly invited. [[Abg. Grandruck: This is a scandal! Pui!]] In one month there is another event on social standards. Minister of Social Affairs Aubry takes part. Again, Austria is not explicitly invited. ==References== In June, there will be talks with Ministers Buffet and Moskovici on the subject of "sport". – Again, Austria is not desirable. Ladies and gentlemen! I would really ask you to accept and support this very serious request, which has been presented today, and to give a common sign that we will not simply accept this unjustified treatment. I ask you to do so, and I ask you to do so at the same time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But the following has already become clear to me – and I am saying this as a glowing European, who does not take back anything from his European enthusiasm, but who will now give more vigilance to some institutional questions: Because of these things, together with teeth and claws, we will defend each of our rights under the Treaty. At the Intergovernmental Conference with teeth and claws, we will ensure that every country remains represented in every European institution. We are not going to be pushed anywhere: neither from the Commission nor from the European Court of Justice nor from the European Court of Auditors, as some large countries would like to see. We will also receive our position, learning from this incident, with teeth and claws. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In conclusion, the call for the fourteen: Rethinking You will have this strategy as soon as possible! The time is now ideal, I believe, with today's request, six weeks before the next European Council in Feira. There, for example, such an entry-level strategy could be found in a positive solution. I assure you: We from the Austrian Federal Government will do everything we can to get constructive discussions without emotions, without being revitalized. I am concerned with Europe, but also with Austria's concern to put our country's concerns far too important as a question of prestige or face in the foreground. But there are also limits: Austria does not need a probationary aid, and Austria will never accept a return to the burden of proof. We have to prove, as it were, that we are innocent, although everyone sees that we have done nothing contrary to the European canon of values. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, my final invitation – I have really tried to get out without any polemics inside –: I really ask you to strengthen our back! Help us and help you find the way into such a solution strategy together! Today may be important if you all jointly support this proposal by Khol/Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12165	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12195	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is becoming increasingly clear and has also been said, and it cannot be underlined often enough: These sanctions of the EU-14 are politically absurd, they are unfair, they are illegal, and – I attach importance to them – they contradict the fundamental principles of democracy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Those are the statements of Haider, too!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, it is equally politically absurd, unfair and contradicts the fundamental principles of the Community of the European Union when European top politicians, when a President of Parliament or other people of political life see Austria standing outside the European community of values, want to be second-class, put their citizens as second-class politicians, or put their politicians as second-class politicians. That is quite certain to reject and reject! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Austria fulfils its obligations, and Austria will continue to fulfil its obligations. We have written this in today's proposal for a red and white consensus. It is precisely because Austria fulfils its obligations – we acknowledge this – that we are always clearly and unmistakably pointing to the rights of Austria as a fully-fledged, equivalent member of the European Union. That's not gonna stop us. We won't give it a rest. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Austria is not second-class, its population is not second-class, and its politicians are not. And it is very unfortunate, Mr Gusenbauer, that you have already made it clear in the run-up to this meeting that you, the SPÖ, and also the Green Alternative do not once again touch the outstretched arm, once again do not want to turn to this red-and-white consensus, once again do not want to reach your hand – this is probably because the party colors are red and green more important to you than red-and-white-red for Austria. That's more important to you. They continue to present the party interests to the public interest. But you should consider this thoroughly in the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It's just a shame, because if you look at the two applications, namely those of the SPÖ and those of the government parties, you'll find that they're almost different. You have made a writing copy because you have essentially taken over the points of our request. However, you have entered a small addition, and this distinguishes the two applications from each other. You once again want to condemn a parliamentary democratic party of this House, and that characterises you, and that also takes away the mask. It's not about the state force, about the state interest! You will not find in our proposal a single political party, not a single attack, not a single mention that goes towards party politics! But that's the difference: You have made it clear to you that you are a party policy, that it is not a matter of reaching a national consensus against sanctions, but that it is only a matter of party policy that you are only concerned with neglect, and that is what you have made clear with this request again today. That's unfortunate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is unfortunate, especially in view of the fact that – the Federal Chancellor has already pointed out – such a great man as the President of the Constitutional Court Adamovich travels to Paris and clearly makes the following clear – this is to be read in today's daily newspaper "The Press" on page 1: "Critics against the sanctions of the EU-14 against Austria, defence" – listen now, Adamovich – "the FPÖ against the accusation of racism: This message will be addressed to the French Senate by the President of the VfGH, Ludwig Adamovich, today, Wednesday." "Adamovich also wants to defend Noch-FP-Obmann Haider legally: “That one can accuse him of any wrongful conduct I do not see,” says Adamovich. “There is nothing there.” He also says that there are domestic debates, but he goes abroad, to Paris, defends Austria, his democratic parties, the FPÖ, even the head of a government party. And that would be for you to defend the whole, the country, democracy and its parliamentary parties also abroad against unjustified attacks! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is unfortunate that even today you do not want to join this national consensus again, but it is understandable. It's unfortunate, but understandable, because it doesn't fit you into the line, because it's just not possible for you because you're now in the Zwickmühle and you need to make it clear to your ally comrade abroad: In fact, in the last few weeks, it has not meant what we have told you about Austria. For example, Lacina: In Austria it smells huge. – Gusenbauer: Austria is losing its status as a civilized country. – APA of 8. February 2000. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: That's crazy!]] Or you sit down with Crespo, the head of the SPE, and you agree that the SPE Group is fully behind the sanctions of the fourteen. Or Swoboda says to the sanctions that they are important and correct. – I already know that it is difficult to take the curve here in the country now according to your statements abroad. It is also true, however, that you are simply getting more and more into this dead end, into this twilight mill, because the opposite wind of the Austrian population blows into your face, the counterwind of parliamentary democracy. That's why you have problems if you want to join this shoulder closure. On one day, in a press conference on the SPÖ, National Council President Fischer says that there would be no request for the abolition of EU sanctions – and on the same day in the evening, Mr Gusenbauer calls for a "round table" to abolish sanctions. Mr Gusenbauer said that he was particularly opposed to a monitoring procedure in the Council of Europe, which was then rejected. Then Mr Kostelka comes to Austria and calls for exactly this monitoring procedure, which has been rejected at the Council of Europe level. This is your internal and foreign policy "Eiertanz der SP um EU-Boykott", as the "Kronen Zeitung" has stated. You're driving around, and you want to hit a bridge - I'm taking this from you - and you might want to get a consensus as a designed SPÖ observer, but as soon as you start a small attempt, come. Your allies and non-combined in SPÖ from the left, Kostelka, Fischer and as they all are called, and drive over it. I'll tell you: Courage is appropriate – courage, Mr Gusenbauer! Trust yourself! Trust and bring You are also your comrades today to vote in favour of this request so that we can have a national consensus! Trust yourself, then you will be recognized by the population accordingly! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Stop doing this thing! Easter is over, eggs are no longer available, you don't need to dance eggs either. Now counts red-white red! It is also true that this socialist concept of Europe-wide isolation of Austria has in fact failed for a long time. On the contrary: They and the Greens are increasingly manoeuvring themselves in isolation from the Austrian population here in Austria. That's the truth! The concept has long failed. Her concept of dividing the Austrian Federal Government with the population is no longer working. It says in this context Andreas Koller of the "Salzburger Nachrichten": The self-sessing of SPÖ abroad is not only hypocritical, it also assumes false conditions. The SPÖ is wrong to distinguish between good and bad sanctions in the sanctions imposed on Austria by the EU-14. In the opinion of the SPÖ, the good sanctions are those against the Austrian government; evil sanctions are directed against Austrian civil society. Only against these sanctions is the SPÖ acting abroad, while the Social Democrats ignore the fact that there is no such distinction. The sanctions tolerated by the SPÖ against the Austrian Federal Government have forced the criminal measures rejected by SPÖ against school classes, artists and athletes. The SPÖ can or does not want to recognize this and thus harms the whole country. – citation; Andreas Koller of the Salzburger Nachrichten. There's a lot of truth about that. There are a few other quotations, so I say: End with this policy of the burned earth. – The aim must be that we come to an immediate end of these EU sanctions. If you are unable to agree as a group today, I have a wish for you, then I would like to ask you, Mr Gusenbauer: Come on. You come out here afterwards and say out of the chest tone of conviction: Yes, I am against these sanctions, and I will be committed to abolishing these sanctions – in the sense of Austrian democracy and its citizens, in the sense of all patriots wishing for the abolition of sanctions! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you do, then the population will also be positive towards you, then you will come out of your zwickmühle, out of your dead end. See this today as a bridge, as an emergency exit of the strategy you have chosen, agree and support the red and white consensus!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12299	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12320	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is a serious issue that we have to discuss today, namely the question of how Austria and the Austrian Federal Government come out of this difficult European political and international isolation. The Federal Chancellor has shown very impressively the practical impact that this has on government work. I have predicted that this will happen when these measures are adopted, and I have also foreseen the consequences that this will have in individual European institutions, and I have therefore rightly pointed out already weeks ago that these measures will lead to Austria losing its status as a civilized country, which is precisely the case. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How can you claim this? How can you claim that? It's a nonsense! You need to know that's a nonsense!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Westenthaler! Are you able to listen for a few minutes and reduce your normal noise level once a bit. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Only civilized you can listen!]] If, Mr Schweitzer, in the Council of Europe, the request for a monitoring procedure... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We will come to talk about this...!]] Mr President. Is it possible to have the free word in this house?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12379	Ladies and gentlemen! Give the speaker a chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12401	The fact that the application for a monitoring procedure against a country has been filed in the Council of Europe has been the case in the past with Slovakia, Belarus or other countries. If such a request is made against Austria, we will be implicitly put at the same level, and therefore I have rejected the fact that there is such a monitoring procedure, and have also convinced most of the Socialist Group in the Council of Europe of Europe of this procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Kostelka promotes it!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We'll talk about it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Second point: I'm amazed at some statements here and today. For weeks Mr. Westenthaler has been moving through the country with his comilotons, claiming that wherever Professor Van der Bellen and I occur abroad, this will lead to new and intensified sanctions against Austria. [[Abg. Fischl: "commilitones"!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: "commilitones"!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "commilitones"!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Van der Bellen was in Rome, and Fini won!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler creates a tablet on which the following inscription is to be read: "The French government acknowledges "punishments for a long time".]] That is why I asked the foreign minister in the Committee on Foreign Affairs whether she was presenting a written or oral report by any Austrian ambassador justifying these immense statements by Mr Westenthaler. The Foreign Minister gave me a clear answer, and she said that she did not present any such reports. On the contrary: The Foreign Minister has thanked us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the fact that we in the Council of Europe – in writing in the report – have worked to ensure that there is no monitoring procedure against Austria. That means the exact opposite is true: Where we appear abroad, we are trying to create understanding and clarity regarding the Austrian situation, and we are trying to develop steps, possibilities and strategies as we emerge from this situation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr Khol is constantly talking about the conspiracy of the Socialist International, I would like to make it quite clear to you what Mr Bundeskanzler and you have told us here today: What did you explain to your colleagues in the European People's Party? What did you explain to your party friends Chirac and Aznar? Just a few weeks ago, the Federal Chancellor stood here and in noble words praised the Spanish Prime Minister Aznar. Today, he is making himself and is scourged by the practices of his party friend. I wonder if you already have this phrase of conspiracy in your mouth: What have you told your party friends, who in Europe are largely in government responsibility? [[Abg. Grandruck: There are only two! It's just two!]] I would also like to ask you another question: If you have some ambiguity about how the measures against the Austrian Federal Government have been implemented, why have you already rejected the requested committee of inquiry on this issue here in the House to this day, if you already have such a need for knowledge of the causes and reasons? Mr Khol! You would have had every opportunity to create clarity, but obviously clarity does not correspond to your wishes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! If it's not about prestige and facials, as you said here today, then I have a specific question: The President of the Federal Government formulated a letter before the Lisbon Summit to the 14 governments. In this letter he made two very clear proposals: firstly, the cessation of sanctions, second, the development of a European procedure, which, as soon as it exists, should replace the sanctions. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany would have been pleased if all four parties represented in Parliament had given support and so invited us all. I can remind myself that Professor Van der Bellen and I were with the President of the Federal Republic and have signaled him our support. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Where were the others?]] However, I cannot remember that the two government representatives were there and had signaled the same support, and therefore the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has not been able to refer to the support of the four parties in his letter. [[Hey! Call at the SPÖ]] So if it's not about prestige and loss of face, it's about Austria: Then why did you not support the initiative of the Austrian President? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I wonder, What does the Federal Government do to get out of this situation? – We and the amazing Austrian public will tell you on every occasion about the injustice character of these measures and announce that legal action is being taken wherever Austrians are harmed, and where you believe that the government is also harmed. I ask you: What legal steps have you taken to this day? – You often talk about it, you announce it, but no legal step has become known to me so far. The question therefore arises: What is the Federal Government doing in this sector? [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] I also believe that there is a great deal of outrage. I do not understand at all that our foreign minister is not welcomed and that the handshake is denied. I don't think that's a good style. I say that openly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I also ask myself the question: Is it not little for an Austrian Chancellor to be just outraged? Should it not be possible for the Federal Chancellor of a country in the present situation to demand a strategy that shows what steps must be taken to ensure that Austria comes out of this situation on the basis of a solid external and European policy analysis? [[Abg. Großruck: For example, today on the national consensus!]] Should it not be possible to demand from a German chancellor that he put the state's welfare in the foreground and join the directly elected Austrian Federal President and his many initiatives together with all other parties? Can it not be demanded by an Austrian Chancellor in such a situation that the party political agitation he has tried to avoid will also be imposed on those people he sends to the front every day and that, to the difference of individual statements today, he has had in his hand only the sham when they have appeared against the Greens or against us? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Can it not be expected by an Austrian Chancellor who says that he is a confessing European and is a member of the European Union that, if he has signed a coalition agreement with FPÖ and Jörg Haider, he will clearly distance himself from the statements of Jörg Haider, who is considering leaving the European Union? Can't you demand that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: High time!]] Is it not possible to ask a German chancellor if he actually wants Austria to come out of this situation – my last sentence – to stop all the anti-European provocations of the two government parties? – This is the essential prerequisite for a way out. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But you can demand that he forms his own opinion!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12655	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. He's got a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12677	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Gusenbauer has given much opportunity to replicate his speech. I would like to begin by saying: Mr Gusenbauer! Austria is a civilized country, has not lost this status in the last three months and will not lose it in the next few years! I would like to expressly hold on to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, You have really disappointed me personally, Mr Gusenbauer, in one point, and I have not really been able to blame you so far, and that is a presumption. But if you claim today that you were the one who prevented a monitoring procedure against Austria from taking place in the Council of Europe, this is more than a presumption, Mr Gusenbauer! Let me hold this. I'll prove it to you as well. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Ask your foreign minister!]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== A meeting of the Political Committee of the Council of Europe was held in Paris on 21 March. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes! Where was he?]] The political committee was concerned that Austria should be excluded from the Council of Europe with parliamentarians. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where was he?]] I was there because I am a member of this committee. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true...!]] Mr Schieder was not present as a Member of Parliament, who is also a member of this committee. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where were you?]] But he has a deputy, this is Mr Gusenbauer. He was not present, ladies and gentlemen! [[Oh! Call at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As a further information, I would like to say: The next day, 8th. In March 2000, there was the Monitoring Committee of the Council of Europe in Paris. There, a monitoring procedure was put in place on this request, namely whether a monitoring procedure was opened against Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: When was that, Mr. Spindelegger?]] ==References== March 2000 in Paris! There is only one Austrian representative there, and that is called Alfred Gusenbauer. He was not present, ladies and gentlemen! [[Oh! Call at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what he's talking about here?]] [[Further calls.]] I can rarely get caught, but in this case. If my colleague Edeltraud Gatterer and I had not been in the Council of Europe and my colleague Mr Schieder would not have done one thing or another, there would have been a monitoring procedure against Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Arbitrators have included themselves!]] But that Mr Gusenbauer did not appear until Monday afternoon, when the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe met, with a red bag that has made him famous, but not in order to ward off sanctions against Austria, but too late, after the vote and after having voted on Austria and the question of an urgent request, this must also be regarded here in this House as a fact, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll hold it once again: For me, it is pure presumptuous to represent such a thing in the House today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Fatherlandless Attitude!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nearly three months have passed since the 14 Heads of State and Government in the European Union imposed these sanctions on Austria. Today, after these three months, we can see three facts. Point one: Almost all legal experts today say that these measures are illegal. Point two: The front against Austria is crumbling. If you look around in international media, you can see how high-ranking European politicians break through this front piece by piece. If the Finnish Foreign Minister says that even before France takes over the presidency, the sanctions should be lifted, then that is something that has weight! He's not close to my party, quite the opposite. If there is an end to sanctions in Denmark by the whole of Parliament, then this is something remarkable. If, in Germany, the FDP chief says that the sanctions belong to annulled, then it cannot be said that we have caused this. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now widely recognized that this is something completely unacceptable for Europe and for European thought. The front breaks down. However, the fact that number three is unfortunately what Mr Gusenbauer said today is clear: There seems to be no willingness to leave the SPÖ's sanctions course and to push on the Austrian road. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Party policy against state interest!]] On the contrary: I have not even heard in his speech that these sanctions are being condemned by the European Union. I almost think this is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, as so many Austrians – if not the whole population – are now convinced that they have to face these sanctions in a massive way! I think we don't have to explain the bizarre details that are there, they're cruel enough. If pickerln on which the mesh is crossed is carried by members of the governments of other governments at Council meetings, I can only say: Every councillor in Austria has more style in protest against the political opponent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If a diplomatic scenario is to be set up so that a summit in Lisbon does not have a family photo on which Chirac is depicted with a bowl, if you have to delete the term "family photo" so that there is a joint picture, then I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen: Is that European? Does this have anything to do with the questions that concern us today – enlargement, the Intergovernmental Conference? There are ridiculous details to make the great sight, for example, when at a summit of European Heads of State and Government with the African states, there is the big problem that Austria cannot sit next to the square of Belgium, because a foreign minister there Michel refuses this and prefers to sit next to the square of Angola. Ladies and gentlemen! It is apparently immoral to sit next to the square of Austria – as if there were permanent human rights violations with us. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Not in Angola!]] You prefer to sit next to the square of Angola. I do not want to go into this country and into what has happened there in the past. But I have to say: This is a curious detail of a policy of sanctions, which has actually lost any credibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What can we do about it now? . Today we are beginning to find a national consensus. I believe that we should start with ourselves first and, as a National Council, try to keep the dialogue permanently with the opportunities we have – with groups of friends formed from Members of this Parliament. Budgetary resources should also be provided. I emphasize: It is important that there is a permanent dialogue with other parliamentarians. Point two: I believe that leaving the European Union – which has already been mentioned by some in the excitement and there – is absolutely not an appropriate way out of this situation. Why? – The European Union as an institution has not been blamed. Those who have been blamed for something were the 14 Heads of State and Government who have imposed sanctions by telephone in a weekend action, for which there is no legal basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say quite frankly that these people have abused their position as national heads of state or government within the framework of the European Union, as they do so without the legal basis of Austria. So I mean, for all of us, there would be an opportunity to find a consensus in red-and-white-red – a consensus purely because it would strengthen Austria's position compared to others and to the way they do so. I believe that it would strengthen the pressure we must put on the European institutions if all the parties were to take part in the current exceptional situation for Austria and thus also their state-political responsibility as parties to put Austria forward once and to bring back their own well-being, which was so important in the past. I think that would be very good for this whole house.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12933	Mr Gusenbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. I would ask you, Mr President, to look at the situation which has to be corrected and the actual situation to be dealt with. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12961	Mr President. Mr Spindelegger has just said that I would have appeared in the afternoon of the Council of Europe's Monday session in Strasbourg only after the vote. I'm actually correcting [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That I wasn't there?]] On Monday of that meeting in Strasbourg, I was at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and, as a member of the Socialist Group, held a section on the situation in Austria and rejected the establishment of a monitoring procedure, which led the foreign minister to say in her written opinion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: When voting?]] However, this picture would not be perfect if I did not also recognize and mention those recognized efforts and the patriotic sense of responsibility of parts of the opposition, which, for some reason, leap over this shadow, for example in the Council of Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mr. President! That's a speech!]] I know that this was not an easy decision, and I have already thanked in other ways. – As far as the facts are concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13039	Ladies and gentlemen! I now have Mr Mag. in the computer. Mr Schweitzer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his However, I am told and represented by the Greens in the position that, after Mr Westenthaler has already spoken, a speaker of the Greens should come next. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Yes, of course!]] I cannot now say from memory how we handled this in earlier cases. Anyway, I don't want to create a prejudice. Mr Schweitzer, do you allow Mr Pilz to take the lead? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Please!]] Please, then, Mr. Dr. Pilz will speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13108	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer. Let me start with a quote: Cooperation with Haider is impossible because for me issues of life predominate to party interests. I reject a FPÖ that rejects the EU, torpedes integration, fights the euro with show stories, and plays with people's feelings in the foreign question. [[Abg. May. Steindl: All old...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The FPÖ thus leaves as a partner. Further: Haider never swore to his abstrust ideas. At his central messages, he has repeatedly re-enacted a chancellor. So he never comes into question for us. That is a shame, because this will take a million voters from the political spectrum. If, then, a coalition with the FPÖ voters, but not with the FPÖ and Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Edlinger: Who was that?]] Dr. Schüssel, then vice-president, succeeded in convincing all his party friends – without any exception – in the European Union. At least at that time we had a very convincing foreign minister. The fact that he has not been able to convince his party friends of the complete opposite may also be due to the fact that it is not primarily Aznar or Chirac's interest to know Wolfgang Schüssel as Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria in office. For this, the party interest across the borders is obviously too low. Wolfgang Schüssel has estimated something completely wrong: He clearly expected the solidarity of his party friends in the European Union to be higher than the commitment to the fundamental values of this Union. He obviously did not expect that this Union – whether seen by Christian Democrats, by Social Democrats or by Greens – is a community of values of human rights and democracy, and that, after Wolfgang Schüssels' successful conviction, there is no great likelihood that only with the reference "Your friend Wolfgang Schüssel can become German Chancellors" all of a sudden everything will be overboard and that what is common to all of Europe, across the party borders, suddenly no longer applies. [[Abg. Zweytick: Where in Italy, where in France?]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Berlusconi can do better!]] I have never understood – Mr Fassleven, Mr Kohl and also Dr. Schüssel! – why you were surprised that a European community of values had to respond. Of course, we were also surprised by the speed and clarity of what we call sanctions today, but that there will be reactions, Dr. Khol, not only did we know that, but you also knew it, at the latest since the very clear warning of the Austrian President. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We don't believe that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You already knew before!]] They were warned! Please do not go here today and play shortly after Easter the black or the blue lamb of innocence, which had no idea and was sacrificed on the altar of the Austrian hatreds in Brussels. That's obviously nonsense! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They obviously still do not take seriously what has happened in Europe. [[Abg. Zweytick: What did Voggenhuber say about this in Europe?]] It can also be formulated positively, and it can also be said that the basis of the European community of values is so clear and so clear that the government of a right-wing party is not a European self-evident and not a bagatelle. [[Abg. Zweytick: Tell my colleague Voggenhuber! He laid the egg!]] And that's exactly what happened! I have – I leave Westenthaler once – listened very closely to what Dr. Schüssel and Dr. Khol had to tell us today. They have put a double ultimatum: firstly, an ultimatum to the European Union, which reads as follows: We call on you to bring the sanctions to an end! , and a second ultimatum to the opposition – they formulated it completely differently, but the message arrived, and until last night was also formulated in this language – which means: [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What's bad about that?]] Whoever does not stand behind us, who does not carry out the ephod in the form of knees before the government, is a fatherland traitor, he is not a patriot! – That was the double ultimatum. I have missed a third ultimatum, namely the ultimatum to the still party chairmen of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You have supported the people who have documented: Patriots are idiots!]] I ask you: Where did the ultimatum stay at Dr. Haider and the FPÖ? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Where remains the following ultimatum: If one more explanation is made: We are ready to put forward a move out of Europe!, if one more time it is explained that there are corruptionist states, with the exception of Austria, which form the European Union with others, then...? If you accept this, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, I slowly wonder what calculation is behind it. [[Abg. No Marxism!]] Yes Believe You really are saying that if you make a request, the European Union will go on its knees and say: For God's sake, a request from the Austrian government parties! The sanctions are lifted!? – Yes believe Are you really saying that if you don't finally make it clear to Dr. Haider and the Freedom Party that a move out of Brussels has no place in this government as a government? [[Abg. Young: Do you really believe what you're saying?]] They are currently making a very interesting political experience: on the one hand, an ÖVP who believes that it can gain from the bunker situation, on the other hand, a Freedom Party that loses and suffers a relapse into the anti-European resentment. And you believe that if you now place an ultimatum on the fourteen and not even in a sentence point out that certain concerns are taken seriously on the basis of the common European values, then the sanctions will be removed? I say one thing to you very clearly: For a few weeks now, I have no longer or no longer fully believed in the ÖVP that you are really interested in abolishing the sanctions. [[Abg. Zweytick: Did you listen to the Federal Chancellor? You're talking about another man!]] On the contrary, I have the impression that, due to a very difficult domestic policy situation, due to a tax package that you do not even get 20 percent of the Austrian population as supporters, the sanctions are increasingly preferable. If you really want to abolish the sanctions, then you would have supported the Klastil initiative, then you would have supported other initiatives. They have rejected these initiatives in brusk. You do not leave an opportunity to invite the interlocutors you call for dialogue in the early morning and to insult in the evening. And you think it sounds like Dr. Schüssel suddenly and Jacques Chirac comes in and says, Dear friend, can't we finally talk to each other? Besides, it's not even that way. If I look at the German Chancellor's response to the actual consequences of the sanctions, I can read in it: no sustainable cancellations in tourism, industrial growth, improvement in the employment situation. And finally, it's written: Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner and I have already set out in detail the government programme and future European policy in many personal discussions with EU Heads of State or Foreign Ministers. These are sanctions? – Always sitting You are obviously together with those of whom you feel boycott and explain to them the details of Austrian government policy, and then you ask for a national shoulder closure to your interlocutors? Do you think Jacques Chirac, think Gerhard Schröder, you think that the majority of the Austrian population is so uninformed that everyone comes across this domestic sanctions tactic? Do you think that people can be comforted by reference for months on the basis of the attacks on their pensions, on their scholarships, on the material foundations of their lives? [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] – At some point, ladies and gentlemen, it's over, and at some point this theatre is out. We'll be a...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13337	Mr Pilz! The 8 minutes of voluntary speaking time was 2 minutes ago. Now, please, let's finish, now it's 10 minutes!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13364	My final sentence is: In a single point, bowls, Khol and Westenthal are completely right: This government will not be overthrown by Brussels. It will hopefully be chosen in Austria as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13396	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Schweitzer. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13418	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, Mr Pilz. ==References== In October, the majority of the Austrian population of FPÖ and ÖVP elected. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The majority!]] It is therefore not immense that two democratically elected parties, who have 104 out of 183 seats in the House, dared to form a government, and it is not immense that these two parties adhere to their right of self-determination against the will of a red international opinion alliance. I think there should be consensus here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is a normal democratic process, Mr Pilz, which should be taken note of by all sincere democrats, including this half of the House and, if they belong to other parties. [[the speaker looks towards SPÖ lines]] All that has happened then is based on a democratic decision, Mr Van der Bellen, but it is obvious that you – the Social Democrats after 30 years of continuous exercise of power – have been missing this thinking of the sincere democrats. They go to Italy and say that there is a fascism developing, which is just too adventurous. Interesting for me was that just where you've been, Fini has won very much. – An interesting detail on the edge. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Electoral helper for Fini!]] As usual, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, is the behaviour of climate in Stockholm, is the behaviour of Swobodas in Brussels, is the behaviour of Kostelkas in Bern and Gusenbauers in various European capitals, if it was not politicians who are obviously unable to remain sincere democrats when they lose elections and thus power? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You don't even know what you're talking about!]] That is your problem, Mr Kostelka. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is very remarkable, in my opinion, that Mr Gusenbauer here repeats what he said in the "ZiB 1" on Wednesday, 12. April, has already said of untruth. At the time, he claimed and today repeated that he had prevented a request for urgency and monitoring against Austria in the Council of Europe. - Yeah, how? What do you mean, Mr. Arbitrator? – You will have opportunity to explain to me what has actually happened. Mr Schieder! One thing is certain: You were not present in the Political Committee for preliminary consultation, so you could not represent the Austrian position. And Mr Gusenbauer was not present at the preliminary meeting in the Monitoring Committee, Mr Schieder. You know that as well as I do. So how could he represent the Austrian position there? Mr Schieder! You can give me an answer to the following question after my speech. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes, yes! Thank you!]] When the plenary had a debate on whether or not this item on the agenda was going to be here? Mr Cott Schieder, have Are you speaking? – Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schieder. And Mr Gusenbauer has also preferred not to speak when it comes to whether or not this request for urgency should be made. Mr Schieder, neither do you and Mr Gusenbauer. Mr. Schieder! Another question – please give me an answer! –: How did you vote when it came to dealing with this item on the agenda? Mr. Schieder, how did you vote? Have you voted in the Austrian interest? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes!]] How? Have you voted against the application or the application or have you included yourself? [[Abg. Arbitrators: He has not been voted!]] Have you included yourself, Mr. Arbitrator? – They have included themselves, and that has not been in the Austrian interest! [[Abg. You don't understand what's going on!]] Mr. Schieder! I've been sitting four places away from you, I've seen the white light shine! Mr. Schieder! You have betrayed Austrian interests, and if, as now, you claim otherwise, you say the untruth. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Their appearances in the Council of Europe and in the committees, Mr. Schieder, were truly not committed to representing the interests of the Austrians. It is unfortunate that you, together with the Greens, still prefer to travel abroad in order to explain there that the sanctions are justified – you have done so many times – and it is regrettable that the government's efforts against these unjust and absurd measures will be reversed. It is particularly unfortunate that you still today reject a common procedure and prefer the end of the shoulder with foreign countries to a red-and-white consensus – Mr Van der Bellen – which is very unfortunate – although these sanctions are an unprecedented intervention in a sovereign country, although it is absolutely unacceptable that Austria is accused of having miselected. All sincere democrats, Mr Van der Bellen, would have to oppose decisions against a country without hearing those concerned. They do not object to the fact that the person concerned is not even heard when something is done against him. All sincere democrats, ladies and gentlemen of the Red and Greens, would have to act with all their strength against a process that negates any rule of law. You don't do it, ladies and gentlemen of the Reds and the Greens! You are not sincere democrats on this issue, you do not represent Austrian interests on this issue, you represent only party political interests! You from the Reds and the Greens are on the side of those who have chosen a process which corresponds to a medieval inquisition process, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Torture Chamber!]] Without materiality, without hearing, without discussion, without objectivity, a country that has nothing to blame is condemned, and you are not willing to act against it. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No, it's not like that!]] So far, you haven't acted against it. It is therefore quite legitimate to consider whether to use all legal means to help Austria to its right. All legal opportunities that can be used in the interests of the Austrians are to be used. It is perfectly correct when considering how to use it. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: EU exit!]] That was never the point, Mr Van der Bellen. There has never been a debate on the EU's withdrawal, but the amount and payment of membership contributions may well be discussed. I have absolutely no problem with that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrians do not understand that we should transfer 30 billion Schilling to an institution that is taking unjust measures against Austria. In addition, we are well advised – this is a consideration to be drawn from this experience – if we deal with the extension of multi-voice very restrictively when debated about it. It will be very good if we make every effort to be able to act sovereignly as far as possible, because this EU, as it now stands, would have been, if there had been no more unanimity, to cross a country without listening to that country. [[Complaints with the liberals]] But that should not be possible in the future, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats and the Greens! It would be very useful to all of us, and especially the Austrian people, if you could for the first time, since this federal government in this country, get through to act in the Austrian interest by giving your consent to the "consensus in red and white red". I would like to ask you politely, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy and ladies and gentlemen of the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13613	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13634	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is true that this government, and thus the majority in Parliament, could take all the steps it seems necessary to bring Austria out of this situation. It nevertheless says, although it does not need a two-thirds majority for this, it wants the full support of the house, it also wants the full support of the opposition at the steps. If it is really serious to her, if she really means it honestly and not only wants to put the opposition in a tactically bad position, if she really means it seriously, then she cannot do it in this way, of course, with a request "Yes or No", "Black or White" "Fresh, bird, or die!" We must try to find a solution to a common approach. Unfortunately, the proposal that has been presented to us today as a solution goes in the direction of "Yes or No", "Fresh, bird, or die!", because we say no to the request, then we are kept in mind, we refuse red-white-red, then perhaps the statement will really come back again with the fatherland traitors and so on, and we say in the literal form, then we have bought an introduction, then we have bought wordings such as "unjustified" et cetera, which constitute a free letter for the claim that with this, statements made by representatives of the FPÖ against the EU, against EU member countries and against Heads of State, are also endorsed by our side. If you really mean it honestly, then it must not be "fresh, bird, or die!" Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, If you are interested in the fact that there is a common occurrence, you must also behave accordingly when it comes to such a one. Mrs. Foreign Minister did this, but you did not have speakers here. I refer here to the Council of Europe and I would also like to answer the questions in all clarity. It is not true that the political committee is responsible for consulting it. The questions of monitoring are discussed in the monitoring committee, from which it goes to the office, and if it finds approval in the office, it goes to the plenary. If it's in the office... let me talk! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Was the cast farmer there?]] I don't have time to deal with your questions and your sturgeon maneuvers. Let me talk! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. One.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Just one question: Was he there or not?]] I'll tell you all this right. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'll be right there. Give it a rest! The Political Committee has put this question on the agenda but is not responsible and cannot take a decision. And so it is equally clear why I was not involved in this incompetent consultation with the Political Committee: I was in the office the day before when it was about the defense of the Secretary-General Swimmer – also on this issue. You can read what I said in the office protocol. ==References== On March 7th, I was unable to attend the Political Committee, which is not responsible for monitoring, because the Foreign Policy Council, which I requested, by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, he said, went only on that day, for the 7th. It was set in March and I could not be in Vienna at the same time as an applicant and in Paris. If he had found another day I asked him for, I would of course have been in Paris. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] Yes, but it is also in the Foreign Policy Council. In the monitoring committee it was like this: It was assured that this monitoring committee will not deal with the question of Austria – it will not be discussed at this meeting. At the request of a Christian Democrat, this agreement was then discussed and approved by the Christian Democratic President. So it was actually in the monitoring committee. It was not possible to know that one could believe that this meeting was not going to deal with this question, but the Christian-Democratic Group has been able to deal with the Austrian question in this monitoring committee. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That means the cast farmer wasn't there?]] Thirdly, in the Council of Europe. Monitoring was already chosen in the office and was therefore no longer a debate in plenary. It's like this: Only when an institution demands it can it be debated, which is a protection mechanism. As a compromise, if you want to, as a compensation, was agreed in the office in order to achieve this decision, that there would be a current-affairs debate in plenary. This is a debate in which, at the end of the day, no request can be made and no decision can be made, i.e. something that could not lead to a decision on Austria. And the office said: To compensate for the lack of monitoring, the office members are not against this current-affairs debate. Nevertheless, I did not vote in favour, but I abstained because it was about our country. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You should have voted against it!]] But it was not about the monitoring that had already fallen at this time. We have been there: for the Secretary-General, against monitoring. What's the thank you for that? Is it enough to stand up for those on the line of the government coalition? - No! Thank you for being insulted for this. Fourth point: I also see in many EU countries a willingness to consider how to get away from these measures. However, they are essentially facilitated by the fact that Austria is constantly being blown into this question. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] Of course, you hear – and that will not happen to you, but you will confirm representatives of the ÖVP –: As long as there are repeated statements of this kind against the EU by FPÖ representatives, we cannot leave these measures at all. – today’s debate You here, how we get away from it, and exactly at this time we get the "NEWS" of tomorrow, and what's inside? – Again a new Hider statement, which is there At present, the EU is as decadent as the old Rome. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] Mr Haider can be heard in a way about the EU, which is still in the shadows of the past – and you complain about it! And you're still claping! [[Call the SPÖ: Unheard!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's a cut-off!]] Faith You really do, that helps this country? Do you think that's the red and white consensus that helps us get out of these things? Or is this not the opposite and harmful to our country? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you really want to do something common, and so that we are not in a yes or no situation, we have prepared a motion for a resolution which is in many respects the same as yours, but which differs in those points in which we cannot go along and want it different. If you really want, you can agree to this request. [[Quoted print version removed]] Tell me about it and don't continue this kind of policy. [[The speaker makes the appropriate gestures: first the eyes, then the ears, and finally holding the mouth]] I do not see what the FPÖ says, I do not hear what the FPÖ says, and I do not say anything about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13829	The motion for a resolution just read is sufficiently supported and stands for negotiation and vote. Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13854	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! "The Farce Version of History", that is, the Farce version of history, is entitled by Tony Judt to make his contribution in "Newsweek" of February 2000 to the situation in Austria. Tony Judt is an Austrian scholar and university professor at New York University. After 14 EU representatives and non-committee representatives of the EU – this is very important – have decided on specific measures in bilateral relations with Austria at a secret meeting, some groups and people in Austria have felt obliged to "support" these measures. I mean, we can learn a lot from it. What and what should we learn from? The two art universities in Vienna hung resistance posters from the window in February, in a race in a sort of letter size and originality in the execution, with which – I would say – embarrassing consequence that a few brave people have sprayed: Without the rector; so resistance without a rector. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Were you not against black-blue, you say?]] The group "Ecce homo" uses posters with the signet of the historical resistance movement "O 5" to apply for its lesbian and gay event. Under this sign – please, let us remember! – in unrivalledly more difficult times, people turned against the National Socialist regime and fought its effects – using body and life. So: To apply for lesbian and gay cultural events with "O 5", ladies and gentlemen: What historylessness. I am very glad that Peter Stein, the Salzburg Intendant, turned to this kind of resistance policy as clearly as possible and said: What's that supposed to mean?- Oh, my God! In a party-politically motivated student demo action, the GPA, the trade union of private workers, has equipped the students with posters: "Haider = Hitler"; that was to be read. Many, many hundreds of these posters are then located at Stephansplatz. I've been talking to a couple of students if they know what that means. That's what they said: They would have been unhappy, and I should not, in fact, continue to ask that the main thing is that they do not have a class. – So, if this is a substitute for political education, I say: Mistakes have happened! These and similar examples have also led to the attention of the foreign country to Austria. Accordingly, concerned parents, for example, have considered in France whether they should send their children to student exchange, because in Austria resistance has been said that the masses of people on the street should also exercise this resistance, that the body and life of the students are not secured, because, as I said, Haider is the same... The universities have responded to God with great gratitude and have maintained dialogue. I met many and asked: What have you done when requests regarding congress participation and the like came from abroad? Most have said: If I could enter the dialogue if I could convince, there was really no problem! Today, I think, the opportunity for a comprehensive Austrian approach is for a total Austrian effort. This opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, should take you so that mistakes from the past are no longer made. These errors have been summarized from a professional mouth: Austria has fallen into false moralism and alarmism. Austria has hurt itself. And there is in fact no legal basis for the measures of the EU-14 – it has already been quoted. I am very glad that Kofi Annan, UN Secretary-General, said: We have nothing to do with such measures! It is necessary to point out that these measures have been taken under the ignorance of the national parliaments, thus covering EU special and national problems. Which one, for example? – The EU Rassism Observatory has mentioned where the problem zones are located in Europe. Where are the biggest racism problems? – In France and Belgium. The EU's bodies – and this is also to be said clearly – have meant in the enlargement question that Austria's measures could be used to prepare distraction maneuvers that the five majors would actually have the say. The principle of unanimity is also addressed. There too, measures against Austria cannot be diverted from the real problem. I quote at this point a friend from a candidate country who summarized the following: How fast one can get under the wheels if the big ones want to, we have seen that in dealing with Austria. Or as another example, I quote a Finnish friend. He said: We have had enough gang experiences with Russia, which we do not need to do with Brussels. The political scientist Wilfried Bredow, who recently attended a symposium at the university, would also be mentioned. Vienna said: The Austrian measures have the least to do with Austria. They have to deal with EU problems, with the problems of some countries themselves, and they should only blur and hide what is to be called. Finally, as an example, I quote Günther Nenning, who made a comment: Hit the donkey and not the sack. If you mean the donkey Germany, dear French, then you also call it by name. – There is nothing to add to it. This recognition is not new, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I do not have to tell you as a science politician. And if you want to call yourself professional in politics, even in the opposition, then you have to consider this very well. It cannot be said either by Mr Pilz that he had already stopped his government partner in the event of misbehaviour. – He didn’t say it that way, but he thinks that an ultimatum would have to be put on words of opinion. Does he not know the federal constitution, Article I, the right to freedom of expression? I am amazed at such authoritarian ideas of cooperation. It is also to be questioned when Mr Pilz says that the measures are not really so bad. Then why is his clubman and group leader Van der Bellen driving around to explain to the Europeans that the measures are to be stopped? So, Mr Pilz and dear friends of the opposition, either these measures are to be rejected, and therefore one travels around, or the measures are not so bad anyway, then one can leave it. You'll have to decide. Today's invitation to a total Austrian effort applies to all. You can decide from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. to 5 p.m. on this Austrian initiative, because it doesn't really need a lot of persuasion, but you just have to think before you judge or condemn. I believe that the joint action would be necessary in order to improve wrong impressions and images about Austria, which have also come about with some Austrians. "The Farce Version of History", as I said with Tony Judt's words at the beginning of my remarks, refers to Karl Marx's admonition. Finally, it was he who said that great events in history can be experienced twice: once as a tragedy and once as a farce. Ladies and gentlemen! With the request to stop EU action, we have the opportunity to prevent the Farce version and thus not to do the story in the quoted way. We need to look at an important European task, the actual political task that André Glucksmann has formulated in the following way: The EU must think quickly after the mere formulation of fears, namely fascism and Stalinism, how, according to the European idea, it even actively formulates European values. Distraction of national problems in European countries and coverage with Austrian boycott measures is not the right way. The right way is to join this proposal today and start a common European dialogueal effort. It's high time, it's never too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13899	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13921	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It's a red-white-red consensus today. Mr Klubobmann Khol is no longer here. I admired his tie with amazement in the "ZiB 2" yesterday, and today he wore her again: a red and white-red tie. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yeah, he's not here anymore. It is really strange how this red-white-red symbolism has been used lately. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And you wear a red jacket!]] Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who unfortunately is no longer here, said in an APA interview only yesterday that, as regards the exit strategies from the sanctions, the EU partners in particular were required. We have heard this again today, and we have also heard that we, the parties to the opposition, are required to express ourselves positively on a proposal from the government. It's strange already: It is always expected of the others a certain behavior: from the President of the European Parliament, as we have heard today, from the European Commission, from the current EU President, from the EU-14, from the Greens, from the SPÖ. All others are expected to change their behaviour. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What did we do? There is no behavior that gives rise!]] Federal Chancellor! Only from yourself, from the two government parties, from your coalition partner, from the head of the still party, who signed the Preamble with you, do you not expect any change in behavior? That's probably not the right strategy. I ask you to: Think about your strategies and don't tell us we have to do something else. You will receive something that this country has not done very well in the past, something like a victim myth according to the motto: Always the other debt, we're never to blame, they're always responsible! – It has said German Chancellor Schüssel again today: We didn't do anything! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Are you in favour of the sanctions? We take note of that!]] You always say you're not responsible. – The ÖVP has brought FPÖ to the government under the party officer Haider. That's the cause! The racist statements that have always come from the FPÖ – the slogans in the last election campaign in Vienna, the NS-harmonization; I don't need to list it all again – are already known enough. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We ask for this! Just count up!]] In addition, the statements concerning the withdrawal from the European Union have recently been made, even if Mr Schweitzer today believes that this is not the case. It was only a few days ago, last week, that came from the head of the still party, Haider, and the second President of the National Council, Princehorn, recently referred to in the "Standard" interview: That statement of Haider was very clever! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you want to play the Oberzensor?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What do you think of the freedom of expression? Can one still express one's opinion in Austria?]] But they are more and more showing the attitude: Now, all of a sudden, the government is the victim! – This is an attitude that has already been very damaging to this country in the past and is still damaging, and this does not fit into a modern and a "European" Austria. You have to say where the causes are, and not always say that the others need to change, then everything would be good again, according to the motto: Christkindl, look at it, then everything's wonderful again! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What do you say about Joschka Fischer and his ad hoc policy?]] I would like to praise Mr Spindelegger, who said that we should start with ourselves. - I've been listening to him very well. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What do you say about Joschka Fischer's war policy in Kosovo?]] But to abuse the parliamentary friendly groups for lobbying for the government, I do not think it is the best solution, I must say quite honestly. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Are you part of the "Fundis" or the "Realos"?]] I am still in a position to distinguish between, as is the case with our group: There is the government, then there is an opposition, and then there is a population that does not necessarily have to agree with this government. I am already in favour of all the parties taking part in Austria, because, as you say, it would be very good for this whole House, but it wants to do so in a different way. That is why we have also prepared two motions for resolutions which I shall put forward. I would very much like to invite you to agree, because they address the real causes of the European Union's action. They know very well that this is, among other things, because – I mentioned this earlier – how the FPÖ and still party leader Haider have expressed themselves, but also some other leading FPÖ politicians in the past, but partly also in the present, to certain things. Examples of this are the Krumpendorf statement by party leader Haider, the speech on Ulrichsberg, but also – and that is not so long ago – the speech of your party colleague and colleague Partik-Pablé not even a year ago, after the death of Mr Omofuma, in which she said that the black Africans were more aggressive, and similar. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Martin Graf]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The speech by colleagues Van der Bellen!]] The second motion for a resolution concerns the recent anti-EU statements that the EU is being denied, the withdrawal is called for, and politicians from other EU countries – the "West Bags Napoleon", we all know, the Aschünder Wednesday-Rede – are also called on to dissociate and to condemn and dissociate from het campaigns conducted by members of the FPÖ, for example against the evangelical superintendent Knoll. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who threw cakes and stones?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who threw bottles and stones at the demos? Who was disguised?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Spindelegger and Mrs Brinek! You said: Let's start with us! – Start and start here with us! If you are serious about the withdrawal of EU measures, then you agree to these requests, then condemn them. You'll get rid of these statements, then you'll get away from it! In the two motions for resolutions, we also call on the Federal Government to take a Council of Ministers decision condemning these statements in the same way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ms. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer is no longer here, but she too has the chance to show, as a new head of the FPÖ on this weekend, that she is serious with the abolition of EU-14 sanctions. ==References====External links== May with a new management team to have all the officials of the FPÖ signed that they condemn and distance themselves from these statements of the past, then, I would think, one could say that the FPÖ is taking a first step in the sense of a correct change of character. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr Martin Graf]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Take a look at the Green Order!]] You've already shown this before: After the Rosenstingl affair, you have also managed to get all your officials to sign the arrangement with the 60 000 S. You can do that, you've already shown it in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is a "blending" speech!]] So if you want to be taken seriously that you are taken seriously by the EU partners, then take this first step! I am now bringing forward these two motions for resolutions. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You see that they take us very seriously! How do you get the EU not to take us seriously?]] At the same time, I would like to ask Federal Chancellor Schüssel, how my colleague Pilz did first, to place an ultimatum to the FPÖ and to say: Take this step! Distance yourself from the statements and condemn They make those statements that FPÖ has made in the past and for which it is known as right-wing populist, right-wing extreme party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – Distance, then you can say that there is a change of nature! Belief in becoming credible You do not, Mr Khol and Mr Schweitzer, if you speak in this context of a feudal procedure, of a medieval inquisition process. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's what the left-wing greens are saying!]] In such words, you want to discredit us! Faith Do you really want us to do something with you if you're begging us in the morning, but at lunchtime, do we want to do something with you? With this kind you won't get far. Another thing about the fact that you are doing something like anti-EU mobbing – both government parties! Haider is already quoted with a new prelude in "NEWS", as he imagines the EU. However, there is no simultaneous distance from the ÖVP. Faith You really are saying that as long as the EU does not, now at once, when we all march together under the red and white-red flag to Brussels or Feira, does it really mean that it has changed something in the FPÖ? - You can't seriously mean that! If it is said, for example, by Chancellor Schüssel, that you will defend the country and the government like a lion, with teeth and claws the right will be defended, then I mean, examples from the animal world are not very popular in diplomacy! This is not the high school of diplomacy, with which you could really change something. You have to act differently for that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I do not think it is so wrong for you to continue with these measures, because in foreign policy you have something to distract you from internal policy, of what you are planning to do in Austria and we are going to discuss here in the next few days: Social reduction, civil service reduction – all these things you want to destroy civil society. They demand a blank check from us today and want to distract from what you are planning and doing in government policy so that people focus on something else. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] But do you really believe...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14227	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14243	I'm already there: Remember the following: If we agreed to this now and then again this evening or tomorrow by Noch party leader Haider, mood or any sentence against the EU, then not only would you be ridiculous, but we too. [[Abg. Grandruck: So you are in favour of sanctions?! Say it!]] And we're not available for that. Condemn the causes, then there is a chance to abolish the sanctions! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: You support the sanctions! This is the statement of the Greens!]] [[Further calls.]] – Condemn the causes!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14304	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. You will be available in writing. The motions for resolutions have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Resolution request of Deputies Mag. Ulrike Lunacek, friends regarding condemnation of dissuasive statements by FPÖ politicians against the EU and politicians from the EU states and the het campaign against superintendent Gertraud Knoll The National Council wants to decide: The National Council condemns all the EU and politicians from EU countries dissuasive statements by FPÖ politicians as well as hetz campaigns such as against the Protestant superintendent Gertraud Knoll, and calls on these politicians to dissociate themselves from these statements, in particular from the quotes given below: The Federal Government is invited to take a Council of Ministers decision condemning these statements as well. (Infrastructural Minister Michael) Schmid founded an anti-EU Easter Extension Committee as the Styrian FPÖ chief. In the interview he continues to identify with the contents of this committee and will also represent it in its current role. The sentence "In the enlargement of the EU lies also Austria's future" from the Preamble of the Austrian Federal Government, Schmid would not agree without further comment. (ZIB2 interview with infrastructure minister Michael Schmid, quoted according to "profile" 11/00 of 13.3.2000) FPÖ meetings in Ried in the Inn Circle The oberösterreichische LandesPartei Obmann Landesrat Dr. Hans Achatz (...) described the EU's action against Austria as a setback for democratic development in Europe: "That's political racism." However, the majority of the peoples of Europe, who have been raised against Austria, are without understanding to the "primary" of the Heads of State and Government, said Achatz. (8. March 2000, source: FPÖ-Homepage Kärnten's FPÖ head of state Dr. Jörg Haider gave his harsh criticism of EU and SPÖ-dominated speech after changing to the FP leadership for the first time as a "simple FPÖ member", as Haider himself said. He would not be silent, said Haider, because, in the context of political development, unless it was important to show that he and the FPÖ were "a voice of the silent majority" when trying to reduce the freedom and sovereignty of and in Austria: "We won't let ourselves have fun there," said Haider. (8. March 2000, source: FPÖ-Homepage On the EU sanctions against Austria, Haider stated that neither Austria nor the FPÖ had something to blame. Not Austria has broken the EU Treaty, but the EU. Austria will not be allowed to take up its rights: "There are no more occupation powers in Austria." On the criticism of French President Jacques Chirac, Haider said that Chirac was "no branch leader in Austria": "This Austria does not need a Western pocket Napoleon of the 21st century. ==References== (8. March 2000, source: FPÖ-Homepage In the plenary session of the European Parliament, FPÖ member Peter Sichrovsky asked, "when the "antifascist Kasperl Theatre" against his country will end." (Bulletin Quotidien Europe of 16. (March 2000) Hair: EU provokes withdrawal considerations In an interview in the latest issue of the Info-Illustrated "News", the divorced FPÖ chief Jörg Haider is discussing an exit from Austria from the EU. The Carinthian head of state literally said: "The EU calls for a member to consider leaving the EU for the first time." Asking how this exit could work, Haider said: "It would be interesting to consider whether membership is not already paid with the recruitment of EU payments." In this context, Haider also supported the suggestion of Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser (F) that the contribution payments to the EU could be delayed: "Karl-Heinz Grasser and I certainly have no disagreement here." The Austrian government will have to consider " whether it is watching this EU theatre even longer." (APA, 19. (April 2000) The sentence authorized by Dr. Jörg Haider reads as follows: "For a long time, Austria is the only country that is decent in the EU. Those who are corrupt will be rewarded, and decent Austria will be punished." (fpd-OTS, 19.4.2000) Hetz campaign against Superintendent Gertraud Knoll "A platform of evangelical Christians, where several FPÖ delegates are involved, collects signatures against Knoll, actions are coordinated through the FPÖ's Parliament's homepage." ==References== (March 2000) Freedom politicians strengthen their attacks against the Burgenian superintendent Gertraud Knoll: "Ideologically, Traud Knoll is fully counting on the outside of the left and therefore, as a superintendent, is not in place," said theburger Landtagsreitte Eduard Nicka in the magazine "Format" published on Monday. (APA, 26.3.2000) Also the speaker of the Burgenische "Independent Platform Evangelischer Christen", the FPÖ member Klaus Fischl, wants to continue to collect signatures against Knoll: "Our evangelical communities are neglected by Traud Knoll. Instead, she goes on demos with communists and violent extremists." (APA, 26.3.2000)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14500	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. The remaining speaking time of his group is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14521	Mr President. High house! I think today's discussion has made it clear: It's not about red-white red-white red, it's about the blue-black preservation of power! You can blow so many Alzheimer's viruses over to the other side of the House of Parliament: We won't be confused. It would have to be formally rethinked if some explanations were made. ==References====External links== October, the day of the National Council elections, a day of vote on a black and blue government. – This is completely new to me! I can't remember the top candidate of the ÖVP, bowl, saying: Please choose me, I'm the chancellor of a blue-black government! – I can’t remember it at the best! Today is pretended to have been so. The best thing is the call: Let us not talk about the causes of sanctions. – Well, if you blow enough Alzheimer’s viruses over to us, maybe we’ll say it sometime: It's just jux and booze! It was not the government constellation, which is one of the reasons why these measures have come about! It was not the statements of Haider on the Gerlitzen against Chirac and the Belgian government. No, it wasn't! It was just jux and booze, just like that! And the disturbing opposition is not ready in this context to finally respond to an shoulder closure! Maybe sometime we'll say: Yes, it was a motivating strategy of SI President Jacques Chirac and his Secretary-General Aznar. Maybe we're so ready that we say: This Duo Infernal of the SI, Chirac and Aznar, these are the negroes, the evildoers! – This is your strategy that you apply here today – of course, still seasoned with countless double strategies. Tragic is that in truth. I had already expected an opinion here in the speech of the Federal Chancellor regarding the statements of Haider in the latest "NEWS". Haider says: The current EU is decadent like the old Rome. – Gauve, the 14 EU Member States will, after they have read this now, that one of the most important persons of a government party, not to say: the most important, says, these are loud decadents, as in the old Rome; Sin exists there, there is only drunk, drunk – the third one that is still happening there, I don't want to list – now say: The Austrians are so sweet, so nice! Oh, let's hope for all these measures! We're decadent, but somehow we'll do it! – Faith You really do? There's the clear idea behind that: They do not want to end these measures at all. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's it!]] This is the true strategy in the background! Now you could just say: That's the bad FPÖ! I've been saying that for years. Now they already believe themselves that they are evil. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm afraid! I'm afraid of Cap!]] But I'm telling you: The statements of Rauter, Schmid, Grasser, Haider with their possible innumerable consequences for investment, employment and the euro are the one side of the medal. It is the provocations that are intended to prevent any rethinking of the actions of the 14 EU Member States. But now I wonder in the final effect: What is the task of the ÖVP, or what do the coalition members actually do in the government if they, as I did on 16 May. April under the title "Politics" could read, play Tarock together or visit the Cézanne exhibition together after a session? In the meantime, the Du-Word already exists, but currently separate by sex, that is, only men to men and women to women, but perhaps this will change. That's all in a "Kurier" article. Also the mysterious sentence: "We do as much together as we can!" What to do You all together? Preallocated You may still be at Tarock who is the evil guy tomorrow, who is annoying and who is silent about the EU country tomorrow? – The last one obviously always wins the dish, he always wins the silence party. He doesn't exist, he doesn't exist, he's not there, he doesn't say anything. Again, this is the best proof: He's not here, he doesn't say anything, he doesn't know anything! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: He was already there!]] – colleague Arbitrators have said that quite correctly when he said that there was no opinion on this. You're even talking to your first name! There is the Andi – Khol for those who do not know – and the Pezi, the Westenthal. Then there is the Spittbübisch salmon quartet from today's discussion. I don't think that was all right. Mr. Khol tried so hard, he brought in pathos here and tried to present the red-white-red, in synthesis with his tie, in such a way that even I almost believed him! But then came this mischievous smile: Go to Khol, Andi to Pezi, and then Pezi to Thommy, who has to laugh in this four-quarters quartet, because otherwise it's not a quartet. That's the salmon quartet you're developing here. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] To do this, I have to tell you: That's incredible what you've presented here today! I say to you from the ÖVP: You learn to appreciate your country leaders slowly. I'm just saying, Schausberger. I'm just saying, Winery. You are putting it to the fore – not like Mrs Rauch-Kallat, your Secretary-General, who has still followed the search strategy, when Mr Schausberger has already said: Stop it! These are the statements of Haider, they are the statements of the FPÖ! – And rightly, Landeshuptmann Schausberger had! Head of State Weingartner has said at all: It's all on my nerves! He's supposed to be quiet down there in the Bärental. – By the way, this is an interesting deal with your supervisor and head of state in Carinthia. Therefore, the sentence of a bowl in today's speech – so to speak with an innocent lamb-eye-stack – is: "We didn't do anything!", probably the main problem of the entire government anyway. The problem is that, in the end, no steps are being taken against all these statements, namely, no serious strategies are being developed to tackle this problem. They really don't want to get hold of it! How did Mr. Schüssel say to the press? – The worst thing that could happen would be to stop talking about EU sanctions. Because then we talk about the savings packages, about the tax increase, about all these things. Obviously not to talk about it. You're supposed to talk about the "evil sanctions." This already sounds as if the grain supply would be blocked, gas supplies would no longer take place, famine would break out. And everyone's wondering: For God's sake, what are those sanctions? – That’s how it’s already presented. For example, the Danube is being diverted around Austria. Loud horror visions are coming up! That's exactly what you're doing. I'll tell you: It may be that these surveys are voting, but which, however, Mr Khol, never says who she is doing, which sample that is. Perhaps these were only surveys carried out in the ÖVP club. In any case, the 75 percent he quoted here are weak, very weak! I'll tell you: That was another idea today – horribly, I can only say about it! That's terrible! Especially for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14606	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Time left: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14628	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Whenever, Mr Khol, who is still missing, just like Mr Westenthaler, rises himself to the sky of patriotism, it becomes dark in this country, it becomes quite dark in Austria, and at the same time some landscape gardeners are on the road in our country. What do I mean by that? Who's the landscape gardener? – Then, Mr Westenthaler and with him Mr. Partyobmann and Federal Chancellor Schüssel appear as a landscape caretaker. I quote from the "profile" of 22. April 2000: Peter Westenthaler, Clubobmann of the Freedoms, holds it in the "profile" talk – quote Westenthaler – with Wolfgang Schüssel, who said – now comes the quote Schüssel: "The greatest danger that can happen to us is that grass grows over EU sanctions." – "We as FPÖ will constantly mowing the grass and will become more self-confident against the EU in the future." - Quote. That's it, ladies and gentlemen! If there were no sanctions, they would have to invent the Chancellor or the President of the Westenthal himself. It's, I think, Lingens. But that's exactly what it is: You need these EU sanctions! Mr Khol came out here, spoke with Creed in the voice of the patriotic shoulder closure – please, only in the interest of the Republic! – and wanted to let us forget that he, Westenthalers and other people did not do the opposition properly yesterday and said: Whenever Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Gusenbauer go to the EU abroad, then the dirt cubes come back from these countries! Mr. Westenthaler and others of his party want us to forget that a few months ago, representatives of the Freedom Party of the Federal President and the former Federal Chancellor of the State Treason and the High Treason were accused. The Federal President! Imagine that! But that suddenly doesn't matter anymore. Now you want to make a patriotic shoulder closure, also with the Federal President. He is, in your opinion, a high traitor like some other people here in this house, but now you want to make a common shoulder closure. Come now You, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, and you say: Please, let us take a common stand against the EU sanctions! – With the Witch Cross you want to act against EU sanctions. [[The speaker holds his hands up and makes a "Hexen Cross".]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course you want these EU sanctions! You need them and you want to care for them – like the grass on the meadow. Mr Haider's comments are indispensable to you, so there is no dementis on the part of the government either. And that's why it can happen, ladies and gentlemen – and that's why it can happen! – that a gentleman, like Mr. Prinzhorn, who made unwarranted statements, made racist statements, was elected the Second President of the National Council after these statements, or a little later. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the right of Mr Adamovich to claim that the FPÖ is not racist. Mr Adamovich was President of the Constitutional Court, but he still does not speak ex cathedra. The Pope himself could not speak ex cathedra in this matter. It is not for him to assess whether the FPÖ is racist or not. Ladies and gentlemen! But I would remind you that in an editorial of the "Presse", in which the FPÖ was also protected by the accusation of being racist, the editor-in-chief of this newspaper, Mr Unterberger, said: If there is a racist statement, then Mr Prinzhorn's statement on asylum seekers and foreigners. If there is a statement that comes from popular hatred, then that of Mr. Prinzhorn. - Quote. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, and they are still amazed when there are such statements as Mr. Prinzhorn, Mr. Haider on the Waffen-SS and countless other statements of this kind that in France this question is something different than you would like to see them see that in France, where Waffen-SS troops have labeled a village, thanks to God there is still a sensitivity on this question, and that you do not like the brothers of the Waffen-SS to be called ordinary people by a party leader who comes to the government?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: What does it have to do with the FPÖ?]] That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14677	Please, let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14693	That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I say once again: You need these EU sanctions because you want them! You want to care for them, you don't want to let them go, so you make such statements again and again. Stop it, distance yourself from your past and from your party leaders!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14750	The next speaker is Mr Amon. The remaining speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14771	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If it wasn't so sad, it would be laughing: What is required by the opposition here today cannot be surpassed by cynicism, especially the statement that the government parties virtually want the sanctions or want them to remain upright. That's completely absurd! For would we then bring this proposal to the House and ask you in this form to agree to this request in order to strengthen Austria's position within the European Union?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions. - Abg. Ollinger keeps a magazine up and points out with his finger the heading "Your appearance, please!"]] The arguments of the opposition were not convincing so far, but one you make convincing, namely the impression that you do not want to end these sanctions, because you simply do not agree that FPÖ is in this Federal Government. By the way, it is your good democratic right to take this position. However, it is highly problematic that you do not want to note that the formation of this federal government has been achieved in a completely democratic way. Take note of this at last! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Dr. Cap – I'm saying this because you're just calling in – pretends to be all about sanctions, a Hetz and a Gaudi, according to the motto: It's funny, everything's not a problem! Even the future SPÖ chairman pretends that these sanctions only affect the members of the Federal Government, but in no way do any other Austrians. But that doesn't work! It does not work to impose sanctions only on a government and thus not to meet the people of the country concerned. I have here the letter of a landlord from Brussels who wrote in it a young woman who is currently in Brussels on stage and who has signed a rental contract there, the following – the letter is provided with name and address, you can see it, I just don't want to make it public –: "Dear Miss, I would like to see you to tell you that, due to the political events and the decision of Belgium, I will not rent to Austrian trainees this year. I would therefore like you to come to me so that I can return you the deposit of 6 000 Belgian francs and look at the rental contract for zero and void." What's that? – This is discrimination due to its origin. This results in the EU sanctions against Austria, and we therefore ask you to accept the red-and-white consensus and to take part in the process we have chosen. We therefore ask you to support this request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You must say goodbye to the position to say that something cannot be what may not be. That's your position. It is, from a subjective point of view, understandable, but alarming. That is why I urge you once again to join our request and to say: Yes, we agree that what is stated in this request will be implemented! We want there to be a clear commitment to all the rights and obligations Austria has towards the EU member partners! That is also stated in this proposal. There you can quote the party officer Haider, who says something else. I could also quote the mayor of Vienna, Häupl, who recently said: Whoever goes to Easter without If and But says, he is said to be called Depp. I could bring several of these quotations. You could quote your Carinthian deputy worker who brings Goebbels quote. That too is feasible. But that is why I have not yet agreed on your democratic legitimacy. But this is happening with this government now, and we must defend ourselves together. They say that the Federal Chancellor has no strategy to get out of these EU sanctions. Yes, what better strategy could there be than to call on the entire National Council of the Republic to take action against these EU measures? What better strategy could there be than for the representatives of the people here in the House to make it clear and clear that it cannot continue so that these EU sanctions are unlawful and completely exaggerated? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One last thing I would like to say to you, because here you are constantly asking the question: What do you say about the People's Party to your Christian Democratic friends in the European People's Party? – That distinguishes us from you! We tell them exactly the same thing, we also say to our friends in the European People's Party that these EU measures are of course exaggerated, that they are unjust and that they have been unlawfully achieved. But I'm asking you: What do you say to your friends in the Socialist International? What do you tell them? – You will remain guilty of this answer! Tell them: Yes, we want to end the EU sanctions, or tell them: In fact, this is not so bad, do we see that we are maintaining these EU sanctions for as long as possible, then this federal government has as many problems as possible, is disdained internationally and cannot move so well politically!? – You will remain guilty of this answer! It would, of course, be interesting in this context to clarify this issue in a committee of inquiry. I admit that. But I also tell you why we do not want a committee of inquiry on this issue at the moment: because the declaration by the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany climate is still pending. The German Chancellor Klima, who was known at the famous meeting in Stockholm, about which the "Guardian", a quite liberal British newspaper, reported a week later that the Austrian Chancellor had asked for some intervention there, has not yet given an opinion. A statement about what he actually did at this meeting in Stockholm is still missing from the former German Chancellor climate. Maybe you could come up with an explanation of power. Climate saving this committee of inquiry. It was then known how these measures came to be. I would really like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and also of the Greens, to address the question of party-political caster thinking. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign as the speaking time has expired.]] I come to the conclusion, Mr President. – It is not about issuing a free letter to this government. Of course, as an opposition, you have to observe and control this government quite massively. I ask you from the SPÖ to turn your party name around: Put Austria ahead and the Social Democracy and the Party at the back!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14879	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. Time left: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14901	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Cap quoted from the "Kurier" today. I allow myself to quote from the tomorrow edition of the "Kronen Zeitung". [[Abg. Parnigoni: Staberl!]] There's under the title: This is a quote, Mr President; I am saying this in order not to run the risk of instituting a call for order; I do not need to do so today: "With his claim that the government is all too happy about the sanctions, Joseph Cap has achieved the contempt of the 14 EU countries effortlessly, if not even surpassed. The 14 could in any case be considered uninformed about Austria, but Cap knows what is actually going on in the country. For his mischievous art of defeat, he therefore deserved himself a hearty and congenial ‘Pfui Devil’ unreasonable.” – End of the quote. That's all I'm saying. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Today's speeches have given me the impression that you are not talking to the citizen anymore. You, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, are obviously concerned with yourself: the debt mountain you have, the follow-up questions, that is, with a whole mess of problems. That is why you now believe that you can continue your strategy, namely to overthrow this government abroad. But you will not succeed, because this government, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, has the confidence of the majority of Austrians. You shouldn't forget that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder's speech was at all the eiertanz badhin or a mixture of veiststanz and egg dance with a shot of bad conscience and at the same time a shot from behind through the chest into the knee. This has never brought anyone together what you, ladies and gentlemen, have listed here on the basis of your behaviour at the Council of Europe. Spindelegger and Schweitzer have put it to the fore. I would not have expected this from you, Mr Schieder, to be so clearly opposed to Austria abroad. That was unnecessary, ladies and gentlemen! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] It will still be allowed, Mrs Lunacek, to talk about European problems, for example about the euro. I quote from tomorrow's edition of the "Kurier": "Euro suffers from hustle and bustle. No end of the valley ride in sight. Experts expect relapses up to $0.84, pessimists up to $0.55." – End of quote. We will be able to talk about it without even being an enemy of pan-European development! How else would the Social Democracy in Sweden have voted with a majority of 350 to 250 votes in just about the euro? We have also discussed this, and a non-indisputable part of the Swedish Social Democrats has said that we do not really want to be involved in this hustle and bustle programme. – So we’ll be able to discuss this and have to. But you also have to ask why this euro slides into the basement! . I tell you, not because we liberals are now in the government, as there are a few, I say once upon a time, that those who have remained saviour have assumed to have to be outraged, but because of your socialist economic policy throughout the EU, where you have the majority. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why God's euro goes into the basement, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, please leave these cheap distraction maneuvers! They tried it again, but once again they went in thoroughly. The strongest piece, however, was that of Mr. Gusenbauer. He put it to the point: If the SPÖ is in the government, Austria is civilized. If liberals are in the government, Austria is uncivilized. I emphasize: not the government is uncivilized, he said, but Austria! Austria is uncivilized! – Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I can only say: Make it up with your voters! You'll get trouble more than you believe now, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your voters are getting less and less!]] Dear friend! That's what we're looking at! At Philippi we see each other again, and in the end we'll be billed! In the end it will be reckoned, and I will look at your result! You'll look old, I'll guarantee you that. I signed this, ladies and gentlemen, blindly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For for what you left us after 13 years of social-democratic government policy – and for you not to remain completely unscathed by the ÖVP, I must tell you that you have already done a little bit – we need a proper piece of work, ladies and gentlemen! But now we will do this together because we have created a positive climate in this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the ÖVP there is also a rethinking from time to time, even though it has not all been recorded. For example, the Tyrolean head of state, quoted today, has probably not really been able to do the story where it is going for a long time in this country. But by the way, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Lunacek and ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! It has already been mentioned: the approach against the Austrian anti-doping expert Hans Holdhaus, whom you have chosen. He said – literal quote –: "I've been selected because I'm an Austrian." And you're going out here today and you're defending these things! That's the true scandal! Please go here and say that we agree to finally put an end to these communities. That would be patriotic! But your whole sweat stands have shown that you have a bad conscience and that your party policy is more important to you than this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This dance of the Social Democrats around the hot brie proves yes: You have lit the story, and now you no longer trust yourself to Mr Schröder and Mr Guterres, for they send you home and say: First you stop us, and now you want us to reverse the story. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – This is the problem you have: Concealed and caught up in history. The Goethe year is already over, but you should take a look at the "Zauberleiterling" after all. You won't let go of the ghosts you called yourself! Unfortunately, God also suffers from this country, ladies and gentlemen. But you don't need to be afraid. We're going through this story. We have the Austrian citizens on our side, who know that we are in favour of red and white red and not a green policy with socialist support or vice versa! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr. Haigermoser stands like a bock!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Black-brown?]] Mr President. Is the term "left fascist" worth an order call? I only ask once, because then I do not say it to Mr Ollinger. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] But if there's no call for order, I'll say left fascist. Ladies and gentlemen! We are on the side of the Austrians and not on the side of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15059	The House is certainly able to take a picture of the quality and the willingness to discuss matters in all the discussions. [[Lively calls to the liberals:Yes, yes!]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of all political groups.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr Arbitrator referred to an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. Please make a comparison: the facts claimed – actual facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15101	Mr Haigermoser said that I had clearly opposed Austria in Strasbourg. – I have not taken a clear or insignificant position against Austria at all. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Instead, I did not vote for Austria – against a monitoring that was not voted in plenary, because it was already rejected in the office. For this reason I could not vote against or vote against, not all of us, because it was no longer for the debate, but was previously prevented at the office meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15140	No further words are available. The debate is closed. We therefore come to the various votes on each of these proposals. First of all, we are voting on the self-employed request made by Dr. Khol, Mag. Schweitzer and comrades concerning consensus in red and white red. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request has been supported by 20 Members. That is why this is the way forward. The voting papers to be used are located in the drawer of the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – these polls are pink. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the voting papers into the urns, which I hope will soon be ready. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the Khol-Schweizer motion to vote in favour of 'Yes' and those who vote against to vote 'No'. I now ask the writer, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin the call for name. It will be replaced at the time by Mrs Haller. Please, Madam Member, start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15201	Did everyone give up the voice? - Good. Then I declare an end to the vote. The officials of the House responsible for this task will make the number of votes. The scribes may be present if they wish. I am interrupting the meeting for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15235	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: 172 votes were cast, 102 "Yes" votes and 70 "No" votes. This motion for a resolution, which is independent, has been adopted. (E 8.) According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Amon, Auer, Aumayr, Bauer Gerhard, Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Brinek, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, Fassleven, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Fischl, Freund, Frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Gaugg, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grollitsch, Großruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Haller, Hartinger, Haupt, Hofmann, Hornegger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Koßl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzmann; Leiner, Lentic, Lexer; Maderthaner, Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Of a kind used for the purposes of this Papházy, Pecher, Pistotnig, Platter, Prince, Princehorn, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rasinger, Reindl; Schender, Schoettel-Delacher, Schöggl, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Sodian, Spindelegger, Staffaneller, Steibl, Steindl, Stummvoll; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Windholz, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Sophie, Brix, Brosz, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavishnig, Grabner, Gradwelt, Green Forest, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Huber; Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, kostelka, herbs, cubits, sorrowers, kuntzl; Leikam, Lichtenberger, Lunacek; Maier, Muttons; The decision-making authority shall Oils; Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Pittermann, Plank, Posch, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Rider, Riepl; Shashing, coves, slugs, boars, silhavy, sima, stoisits; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wicker, Wittmann, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15413	We shall continue the votes. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades on a joint action by all the parties represented in the Austrian National Council to end the measures taken by the 14 EU Member States. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution on Gusenbauer. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Lunacek and comrades concerning the condemnation of anti-foreign, racist, the Nazi regime of impoverished statements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, Mr Lunacek, to give an indication of this. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. We shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Lunacek and comrades on the condemnation of dissuasive statements by FPÖ politicians against the European Union and by politicians from the European Union States and the het campaign against superintendent Ms. Gertraud Knoll. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign in this regard. – This is the minority, so the request has not found a majority. We have thus ended the debate on the urgent request, together with the votes. Short debate on the reply to the question 347/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15483	We are now entering the short debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations with the 347/AB order number. The above-mentioned answer has been distributed so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that in the short debate of the first speaker, for reasons, there is a speaking time of 10 minutes and then all other contributions are limited with a speaking time of 5 minutes, with the exception of the opinion of the competent member of the government, which should not exceed 10 minutes. Mrs Reitsamer is speaking. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15514	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I remember the excitement on the 9th. February when we made a urgent request. How can we ask the Minister of State only as early as this, how can some of the lost things be interpreted in the Coalition Agreement?- Oh, my God! I think it was a legitimate concern to get these things concrete. ==References== Feber did not have any concrete answers. I said in my speech at the time: I had already picked the pencil, but I didn't get to write. There were no answers. ==References== April, very close to the goal, I have to say, then these questions were answered. I mean, what's going on for a long time is gonna be good at last, but I have to say, I was very disappointed. Four pages of quotation from the Coalition Convention! The Federal Minister has not even found it worth the effort to correct herself. We had a current debate one day earlier, on 6. April, the Committee. And she has already come to realize that women at the age of 55 could retire if they have 40 years of contributions, because she herself felt that child labour is not permitted in Austria. I really felt this was progress. ==References====External links== This is not included in the report. There is only the talk of 45 years of contributions and the possibility to retire at the age of 60. That's a real disappointment! There is something different about this: For example, child rearing times, which are currently replacement periods, are to be converted into real contribution periods. – I ask for the financial consequences of such a measure. After all, on a written request from the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, she told us that in 2000 26 billion schillings were spent on these replacement times. 12 billion Schillings are covered, 11 billion Schillings are covered by one-time payments, but 3 billion Schillings are uncovered from home. For me, the question is: Is this another stop-and-go policy, or what is it supposed to be like next year? [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] You have not even answered our questions about the horrors of the first reform package, although You've already announced the next one in newspaper interviews. A reform is supposed to overtake the others! They are already talking about the life throughput period, the first project being not even in review. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you: How's that going? In the Committee you also spoke about short-term steps towards budget adjustment. Medium-term and long-term pension schemes obviously have no role to play in this respect. But next week You're going to examine, and you're still unable to give us information. The questions have not been answered again. I'm just thinking about the introduction to point 7: "Accompaniing the increase in age limits for early retirement pensions is a review and resulting necessary harmonisation of the conditions of access to all sickness-related pension types in pension insurance..." and so on. The day before, Madam Minister, you told me that you intend to abolish early retirement due to reduced working capacity. So what's right now? You have to think about it once. Because it's already a use of this high house that you get answers. It can't be like the broken word here. I would expect it to be said, but it is not in agreement with the written one. So you talk differently than you let write. On questions 18 to 61 you have explained that this would not fall within your competence. – Mrs Federal Minister, that is right now, but you were until 1. April is responsible for the department, and the questions are from 9 April. February, so you should have answered these. The answer to question 10 concerning the degree of self-financing is particularly cynical, namely: The Committee of Experts has to deal with the issues of right of performance and contribution. – Mrs Federal Minister! We currently have 1.9 million pensioners. Of these, 343,000 are farmers and self-employed. This means, however, that 16 percent of pensioners receive almost 50 percent of the federal contributions, namely 30 billion schilling. I have a table here that says: The Federal contribution to a 10 000 S-residence pension is 6 070 S, with a 10 000 S-farmer's pension 7 900 S, for workers and employees at this pension level, but only 1 500 S. And that's how we get into bad business? We have shot 510 billion schillings for farm and commercial pensions between 1970 and 1999, including compensation allowances. That's almost a third of the debt! How would you like to do this differently? They have not said anything at all about the degree of self-financing, although only those steps that we have taken with the 1997 reform should have been taken. It may not be that way – if we are already accused of mismanagement – that commercial pensioners are supposed to come out with 3 930 s a month, or farmers even with 2 100 s. That can't be meant! – Yes, yes, I think you like it. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We're on it, too. But it can't be meant that one now takes away the most workers who already make the highest contribution to their own pensions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They are – so I have been told, I did not know – a teacher. When it comes to increasing the pension contribution for officials by 0.8 per cent, I ask you: What's that? Is that an intervention in existing pensions or isn't it? They also say that existing pensions are not agitated. I can give you other examples of social justice. A compensation beneficiary receives 14 times 8 312 p. The tax reform has not brought him anything. Due to the changes in the phone base fee, the newspaper sports, the motorway vignettes, due to the increase in car taxes, increases in fees, energy taxes, tobacco tax – should this pensioner also be smokers – due to the cost of living – that is not fixed in amounts at all – and due to the package of horrors relating to "punishment taxes" one comes to an annual burden of 9 022 p. That means you'll take this poor pensioner away 752 S per month. Mr Gaugg has already responded to this. He says he is strictly opposed to the Commission's proposals. And he says that the proposals for a pension reform presented by the Committee of Experts yesterday are unfair and unfair! - Listen, listen, ladies and gentlemen! That's what Mr Gaugg of the Freemen says: "From my side there is a clear no to these variants." – That would be very nice, Mr Gaugg! You are also talking about a budgetary horuck action. But it also has a high-ranking ÖVP functionary to say something about it. He says: Mrs. Federal Minister, since you took office, a cold social wind has been blowing through the country! - The one on the part of the ÖVP. And how cold this wind is, I show in the form of an example: A 53-year-old woman will be terminated this year at the middle of the year. She's an employee, married, has no children. 40 years of insurance it would have been up to 55. ==References== Under applicable law, she could retire in two years. It will then also take advantage of its ability to obtain unemployment benefit. Emergency aid does not receive it because of the billing of the partner's income. So in these one and a half years, she loses 367 500 S. This can only leave someone who deserves well over 100,000 s. We don't leave this cold, Mrs. Federal Minister! 'Cause there's another thing to do: If this woman can finally retire, she loses another 1 750 s a year. That's social cold! Mrs. Federal Minister! It can't be that the draft is under review next week and you still don't give any answers today. We did not want to get expert opinions quoted – we can read them ourselves, we have them available – but we wanted to get to know your political intentions and plans. Stop this cover-up policy! Parliament has the right to ask you, and you have the duty to answer. But we cannot take note of the answer we have given. And you can be sure: We'll keep asking until we have answers!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15616	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15637	Mr President. High house! The answer to 63 questions from 9. Feber 2000 took place at the time, very detailed and very detailed. The answer was also accompanied by the detailed expert opinion. Similarly, the German Government's score on pension reform and employment policy measures to ensure the employment of older workers is currently available. Without prejudice to the Council of Ministers, where the scoreboard on pension reform and the employment package for older workers were decided, social partners discussed at the ministerial or presidential level and immediately thereafter also discussed social partners at expert level. Today, the draft pension reform is under way, and a constitutional review will take place in which you can discuss all points and apply your objections.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15668	Next item is the report by Mrs Pittermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15697	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Posters are as little my thing as actionism à la Pumberger, so I save myself the poster "This government is threatening your health." Vehement attacked Mr Pumberger once attacked the health certificate fee and the reduction of the duration of the illness. The answer to the question by the Federal Minister is to be euphemistically described as "inefficient". She did not reveal any of the planned atrocities. If, instead of a health certificate fee, medical contributions are removed, do the pensioners pay the previous contributions again? Modern medicine costs more. They make it difficult to access. The government saves health and pension costs because poor people will die earlier. The increase in the recipe fee meets old, multi-morbids and children's rich with average earnings. As the participant will end, the amount of costs for workers will not be answered. Who comes up for increased travel costs? What are the health effects? 10 S Self retention for the fund is unimaginable. All doctors pay liability insurance, as do the hospitals. Motor vehicle liability insurance shall be paid without the judge’s conviction. Why do the insurances pay only in the event of mistakes in art? We are in favour of compensation for damages by insurance or for paying part of the premiums and also the cost of medicines and medical devices into a fund that is then intended to cover the damage that is not attributable. Ambulance fees – a hard retention, even for those who correspond to § 26 KG. So far, only the first aid is excluded. What about the other benefits like organ donations? Do the donors have to pay, too? Do patients who visit special centres with severe and expensive suffering have to pay self - retention? Expensive medications cost the public hands less than through private pharmacies. What about the trading lines? Do we need a wholesale? Why not ensure uniform, cost-effective prices for the same products as blood canned in the federal territory? Is the outpatient patient in the hospital really more expensive? Isn't that fictitious cost? Is it not better to use the infrastructure available for stationary patients? Do 1 000 additional doctors have savings in social security? Should health care facilities be destroyed and social insurance made extortionable if there is no longer any possibility of health care? The savings effect on ambulance charges can only be achieved by reducing hospital staff, otherwise there is hardly any savings. Why are not the billions that the service providers have already retained, but are guilty of social security, used to cover the deficit? Do you then pay BVA-insurance fee? Then do the co-insurers also pay the hospital fees? How high will the administrative charges be so that the 1 000 S of self-sufficiency will not be exceeded? ration of services is good – the poor will miss out on the services. The Federal Chancellor says 1 000 S is not the world. – How many families in Austria have their income with service cars and invitations? Solidarity with the sick, the poor and the underprivileged has been abolished, exclusion is the currency, reduction in benefits in the health, social and pension sectors to the premature death of the poor. The cynical summit is to pay people longer sickly if their life expectancy is short. Taking patients the hope causes a faster progression of the basic disease. If you are lucky, patients commit suicide – possibly expanded – then the cost of the budget is even lower. Your answers to the request were not sufficient, so I would like to make the following request: Request by Dr. Pittermann, Reitsamer and Genossins, in accordance with § 92 para. 3 GOG on the response to the request 347/AB to 332/J The signed Members submit the request in accordance with § 92 para. 3 GOG, the National Council does not wish to take note of the reply to question 347/AB to 332/J. Reasons The Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations already has details of the planned reforms in the current debate of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Opinion delivered on 4 April 2000. In the written answer to question 347/AB to 332/J of 7. However, on April 2000, the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations referred only to undetermined results of working groups, to statements by expert committees, to undetermined results of working groups or lack of expertise. Therefore, this response does not meet the requirements of § 91 para. 4, according to which the member of the Federal Government questioned is obliged to answer the questions in full or to justify the failure to answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15810	The request by Mrs Pittermann and Mr Comrades, which the National Council may not take note of, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15834	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Immediately after the declaration of government, the SPÖ – as Mrs Reitsamer said – has tabled a question with 63 points, whose reply is now available. You obviously do not agree with some answers. But, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be the task of this discussion, just as Mrs Pittermann has done, to ask another 30 additional questions to be answered here. That is not the task of today's debate on this question, and that is why we cannot respond to your request, Mrs Pittermann. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The questions have been answered with references to clear statements in the expert opinion. Again: You can agree or not, but for us, the answer to this question that was unfair is correct. – But let me clearly explain our positions. First point. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be clear – and this has also been expressed in the request – that: Our social system must be constantly – I emphasize: constantly! – to be renewed. On the one hand, there must be a response to people's behaviour but on the other hand take account of the needs of the Community and, on the other, it must be in line with the financial possibilities. In this sense, the ministerial draft, which is being sent today, as we have heard, is also to be understood. Mrs Reitsamer! So tomorrow you will have all the details that are important to you on the table, and from this point of view your request will be inadequate from the outset, ladies and gentlemen. Second point. For us solidarity is important. Mrs Reitsamer and Mrs Pittermann, your speeches have made it very clear that you are pursuing a de-olidarisation policy. [[Abg. Nicer: That must not be true!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) All those receiving a pension have made contributions – one could do more, the other could do less. But constantly blaming the farmers, they made too little contributions because they had such low incomes, that is at least unfair, if not incorrect, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Nicer: You didn't listen!]] That is to a great extent unfair and unfair! Third point. For us, the safeguarding of pensions is a very important concern, and we are not supposed to reduce pensions. Pensions are not reduced, even if you have falsely repeated this to the public again and again today. Pensions are not reduced, but we believe that the retirement age should be increased. And it has also been said by you, by your ex-Federal Chancellor and by your former Minister of Finance, that the retirement age must be raised, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I would like to explain to you once again the clear difference to our position: We believe that this cannot be done by labour market policies alone, but that pension measures are also necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nicer.]] There must also be an amendment in social security law, Mrs Reitsamer, and we will follow this path, especially since it has been clearly agreed with you in the past, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ. [[Abg. Nicer: That's not true!]] He's been with you for two years... – I know, and we don't see any supplements either. [[Abg. Edlinger: No shots!]] [[Abg. More nice: after what?]] We have agreed, and you will be able to read this tomorrow, Mr Deputies, that at this transitional stage there will be no discounts higher than today. There will be no discounts over 15 percent or more than 10 percentage points. That is quite clear. The last point, ladies and gentlemen – this one is important to me – is: For us there is no two-class medicine, for us there is no rationalization of health measures, but on the contrary: We will take action to develop the system in such a way that no one, including the elderly, must be afraid when he gets sick. And it is already a tremendous assumption when Mrs Pittermann has said here that old people will have to die earlier. A doctor says that! That's unheard of, I'll tell you! It is unheard of to say that, on the basis of the measures envisaged, such development will take place. We firmly reject this, and we do not let that be done!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15952	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15967	We are here on Mrs. Dr. Sickl.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15997	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16019	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to continue where Mr Feurstein has ended. Mrs. Sickl has not only answered the question put to her two days after her fishing and her start of government here in Parliament, but has also demonstrated clearly and clearly in recent weeks that it has not become colder in the social state of Austria. It has become more committed and, as I believe, has also qualified competent representatives of the poorer shifts in that country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You will not succeed, Mrs. Pittermann, in worrying the elderly in that you tell them that the new Federal Government is to blame for a shorter life expectancy. For all those problems, Mrs Pittermann, you have pointed out, are still from the past. The fact that blood products in Austria have a price difference of up to 180 percent for individual hospitals in the same voluntary donors is a fact that has already arisen from the past. The fact that disabled people in Vienna, who have to get help from the company Bstang, have had to pre-finance these walking aids for more than a year and only then get the money back, is not a measure of the Federal Minister Sickl, but of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse and is to be held responsible by you alone. Dear Mrs. Pittermann! As members of a medical profession, it would be good for you to go to the ambulances once at night and see how many doctors, how many professionals and how many professionals are used in the ambulances to take care of, so to speak, banalities of everyday life that could be done in the run-up to the hospital easier, cheaper and under better conditions, because then no doctors would have to be removed from real emergencies, which, as I said, would have to devote themselves to banalities that have occupied the patient for days. A control element needs to be installed. I say clearly to you, Mrs Pittermann: The alternative to your proposals would not mean that more people in Austria should die earlier, but if what the Federal Government intends to do is not realized, this would mean that two-class medicine in Austria would continue to exist for the people in Austria who can afford it, the full medical program will be on the highest standard, but for those people who cannot afford it, only the speculated medical program in a second class. This is what the Austrian Federal Government wants, Mrs. Sickl certainly does not want to do, and we will do everything we can to ensure that the two-class medicine in Austria is finally finished – where it begins to register. We will ensure that this two-class medicine does not continue, such as in the field of psychoanalysis in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The representatives of the social-democratic social security institutions have left the negotiating table. As a result, negotiations have not been concluded, so that they have ensured that psychoanalytic care on the Austrian market continues to be paid between 1 100 and 1 500 S per hour, that there is a refund of only 300 S and not a refund of 500 to 550 S, at a reduced cost of up to 1 100 S. That is only the "meritance" of the social democratic social security institutions and of no one else! And of that, Mrs Pittermann, you will not be able to distract in today's debate. It is clear to us from the Group of the Party of European Socialists that: This reply by Mrs Sickl was comprehensive, competent and, above all, characterised by something that has always influenced the Federal Minister, namely to leave the negotiations, which are still to take place in the run-up to the review process, not by one or other insistence, but by leaving the negotiating field as wide as possible open as possible. That you do not want to negotiate, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, but rather lead a Chamber of Workers' Election in Vienna at the expense of the patients and at the expense of the poorer layers in this country, is obvious to me. This is not our way in the Federal Government. Mrs. Sickl has our fullest confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16094	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16115	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's amazing: Mr President-in-Office of the Council is sure that he knows what the Federal Minister means. But it would be interesting, Mr President, to hear something from the Federal Minister himself, not just from you and from Mr Feurstein, that you know what she means. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Feurstein! I still have your final sentence in the ear, which reads: At this point, we are behind the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany. – Well, that sounds a little dangerous to me, Mr Feurstein. Perhaps you should intensify the coalition talks a little, because, Mrs. Federal Minister, if Mr. Feurstein is only more aware of this point – in which he certainly does not know what you are talking about, because he cannot have a better level of information than we do – then the ceiling becomes thin. And there, Mrs. Federal Minister, I'm telling you, that's where the fun stops. That's where the fun really stops. I have no interest in supporting what the Social Democrats have said on every point, but one thing I say to you: The representatives of the Social Democratic Party have a certain right to: This answer is simply not acceptable. Mrs. Federal Minister! ==References== A urgent request was received February. As you have – admittedly – been able to say, if not necessarily, I cannot answer it all in detail. And you also said the answer is in writing. But please take this seriously, it was an urgent concern! In response to a urgent request, let us not say anything at all – nothing except to the Members here to explain the basic principles of Austrian retirement, which we also know, Mrs Federal Minister, you can believe us – and to say that on the individual questions, you could not say anything yet, and then leave for two months to say nothing again, that really exceeds every border. And now I'm reading your answers: On questions 1 to 6, I refer to the expert committee report. On questions 7 and 8, I refer to a working group that has been set up. On Question 9: See Report of the Expert Committee. On Question 10: The expert committee mentioned several times. Questions 11 to 13: I would like to refer to the expert committee's proposals. On Question 14: I refer to the working group I set up together with State Secretary Waneck. On question 17: I would like to refer to the comments made by the Committee of Experts. On question 19: I refer to the remarks, no, to the proposals – apologies, to the proposals, it must be a bit different – the expert committee. Questions 20 to 22: I would like to refer to the expert committee's proposals. On question 23: also again expert commission "Alterssicherung". On question 24: the expert committee considers. That's how it goes! – Yes, Mrs Federal Minister, at some point – and I hope soon – will You already have to offer this house a little more than empty stands. That's unacceptable! Mrs Bundesminister, you have been elected to a high and responsible office. You have the task of fulfilling Parliament's mandate here, not just to reproduce empty standings and references to expert committees! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You are a politician, you have to design – and not to refer to expert commissions! The people and also this house have the right to learn a position from you and not just references.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16185	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Pittermann's motion for a resolution and we shall not take note of the answer to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of their lack of knowledge to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16221	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 2 and 3 of the agenda. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. Voluntary time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16247	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! We have remained with the ÖIAG Act, and President Verzetznitsch has expressed his concerns here. But I would like to address a little of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, by Mr Vergestnich, by Mr Gradwelt and by Mr Comrades. At this request you can see that you do not actually want privatisation. They want to leave the ÖIAG in the construction so that it will become shareholders for the shares in various companies. That's the one point. The second point is that you want to bring the subordinate loan in the order of 5.6 billion schilling not to the budget, but to convert this subordinate shareholder loan into own resources. That means you don't want to privatize, but you want to give the chance that might result for Austria. This would initially be a chance for the Vienna Stock Exchange. As a result of privatisation, the Vienna Stock Exchange has so far seen a significant increase in stock exchange capitalisation and stock exchange turnover. The already privatized companies alone generate about one quarter of the stock market capitalisation and 40 percent of the total turnover of the Vienna Stock Exchange. The Vienna Stock Exchange expects even greater interest in the Austrian capital market through increased privatisation measures. This clearly shows – and this is also to be seen internationally – that, as long as the public hand is involved in the companies to be privatised, the value of these companies falls and practical assets cannot be realized, but can be realized with a large privatisation measure. They are afraid of privatisation without looking at OECD reports. In fact, the OECD reports state: First of all, privatisation for Austria is not a danger, it is an opportunity for the Austrian economic location. OECD studies on Europe and overseas have also shown that privatisation has had a positive effect on the labour market or on the research rate and on the budget situation. If you look at the research rate in Great Britain, you see, 40 percent share in it have international owners; and in Austria it is the same. Significant research is done by foreign corporations such as Siemens or Philips. It has also been very clear in the United Kingdom's tax revenue in recent years that the contributions from privatized companies to tax revenue for the federal government have been around 130 billion schilling since 1986. One should not always be afraid of privatization, not always afraid that jobs are lost, but should address this matter positively. A positive approach should be made to strengthening Austria's economic location and ensuring jobs. We are convinced that this is the right way in the right direction. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] If one continues to insist on fear of leaving the public hand out of this economic enterprise that there is a risk to the economic location or to jobs, then nothing will happen. The Freedom Party and the Austrian People's Party in the Government have now taken these measures. I believe they will be good for the future of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16300	Mr Van der Waal (PPE). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16323	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Mag. In the first part of his contribution to the debate, Trattner wrongly claimed that the government had planned to carry out a review of the legal proposals under consideration today. I'm actually correcting: It is true, rather, that the government proposal was first decided in the Council of Ministers without prior consideration and sent to the House and, secondly, a review was not planned. Only on the subject of public pressure do the two representatives, namely the President-in-Office of the National Council Thomas Prinzhorn and the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, Deputy Ing. Maderthaner, a very limited private opinion sent to eight auditing bodies. It was only on a request from the chairman of the Committee on Industry, Mr Vergestnitsch, and the decision-making process in the Committee on Industry was made possible for all the bodies to be consulted. That is, Mr Trattner, the government was not willing to carry out a review of this important matter, and has treated this important matter as a low-quality economic asset. I'll leave you to judge it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16362	The next item is Mrs Huber's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16384	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This bill is the most important way forward for this country's industrial policy. The question raised is as follows: What is the aim of this? If I look at the bill in connection with the Council of Ministers' decision and also with the Government Convention, I can simply say that the objective that is being pursued is to privatize – privatize as soon as possible, as much as possible, no matter who, and apparently no matter what price. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a future strategy for our very important companies in Austria. If we are constantly accused in the discussion of the fact that social democracy is against privatisation for fundamentalist reasons and, so to speak, we want to maintain a 100% state influence on industrial enterprises, then you all know very well here in this House that social democracy is not fundamentally opposed to privatisations when it comes to meaningful participation by investors when a concept is behind it when the interests of businesses, if the interests of the employees and especially if the interests of Austria are preserved. That's what I'm asking you: Where is the industrial policy concept? Where are the interests of employees, where are the interests of businesses, where are the interests of the Austrian taxpayer preserved? I wonder, Where is patriotism, expressed today in the urgent request of the government parties, the "consensus in red-and-white red", the patriotic etiquette, when it comes to future industrial policy and the Austrian interests in this industrial policy? And where does your patriotism remain when it comes to ensuring that valuable Austrian businesses do not become extended work volumes of headquarters anywhere in the world? Where does your patriotism remain when it comes to obtaining qualified jobs in Austria? They do not know in the form laid down in the bill who will then take over these companies. Is it someone who is interested in the positive development of the plants or is it a competitor who buys market shares, then moves the headquarters abroad and makes the production facilities in Austria only an extended factory? – It costs jobs, you know that very well. This has also been very clearly expressed in the speeches. What is the point of this government proposal? – It is primarily about invigorating the capital market and repaying debt. I wonder, Where, then, does industrial policy change remain? Where is the offensive industrial policy for the future? There is nothing in the law to read, absolutely nothing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The point is: Do we just want to invigorate the capital market alone, and do we really want to make all Austrian businesses worse, or do we want to have an offensive industrial policy in the future? – This seems important to me for the future of the Austrian industry and also for the future of workers in these companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As the only criterion for the requirement profile of a Supervisory Board, they have defined only the experience in the economy. The friendship with Mr Prinzhorn is not set out in the law. It seems important to us, however, that experts in labour and social rights, securities rights – especially if you want to revive the stock market – are also represented in the Supervisory Board, as it concerns the future of Austrian businesses, the future of the Austrian industry and, above all, the future of the workers employed there.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16475	The amendment tabled by Mr Vergestnich and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16499	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Mr Gradwelt for his actual correction, because it was very good and appropriate in view of what we have heard today, namely that the government is passing through it, that it is not allowed to say anything that is even worrying about the urgent question of democracy. You, Mr Gradwelt, said that both President Prinzhorn and President Maderthaner were very willing to respond to the proposals and invite other experts – see Hearing. [[Abg. Gradwelt: No! I didn't say that!]] That's a fact. It would have been possible, as was the case with previous governments, to pass over it by a majority and reject it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] So this is a sign that the new Federal Government is very likely to respond to and implement constructive proposals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Just scream! Your arguments are therefore not getting better. Mr Gradwelt! That's it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The 2000 ÖIAG Act has taken a long-term and long-term step towards introducing reforms. In the clear text it is said – this must be done on the tongue –: Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Legal Relations of the Austrian Industrial Holding Aktiengesellschaft and the Post und Telekom Beteiligungsverwaltungsgesellschaft. – This word alone, I believe, already belongs reformed, because it is inexpressible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] But what do we want with this step? – We want a depoliticization of the nationalized industry, we want an increase in the efficiency of the industry, we want a market orientation, and we want a debt of the citizens, the Austrians and Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber]] We also want to ensure and safeguard jobs, as well as the economic and industrial location of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the state cannot secure jobs and is a bad businessman has proved the 1980s when a deficit of 100 billion schilling was built and 20,000 jobs in the state were destroyed. This is the "success story" you want to continue. No, no, no, We say: Now there is the opportunity to finally put in place measures that allow the so-called national industry to slide into private hands, because the private are all better economic operators and better entrepreneurs than the state. Ladies and gentlemen! The experts gave us the right to hear. All the experts – except for the two of the SPÖs, except for the workers' chamber and the socialist postal tradesmen – have, in principle, given us the right. Everyone said: Yes, the privatisation is correct, is necessary. The steps are basically correct. It's clear that there's something to be done there or there. Of course, it is also our concern that the headquarters in Austria remain, that jobs are secured and that the debt the nationalists have made so far – 80 billion schilling are still open! – paid back by these privatisations. But that didn't come out. They don't care about the debts, both in the past and in the past. You know this famous statement: 1 billion schilling debts make me less sleepless nights than a unemployed person. – That was the statement of the former SPÖ chairman of the German Chancellor Kreisky, who unfortunately was more than exceeded and saddened by reality. We both got it. Meanwhile, 100 billion schillings have accumulated debts, and there are 20,000 unemployed. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Huber and Mr Dietachmayr.]] All the experts in this hearing – except for the socialist – have given the right to the step towards privatisation. Even the stock market expert has said that this would lead to a recovery of the Vienna Stock Exchange that would speed up stock prices. I can quote from today's edition of the "Kurier" to the stock exchange experts of the Raiffeisen Central Bank, who says: Telekom has an important role model for the industry expansions of the Vienna Stock Exchange. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Even the Flughafen Wien AG and the Board of Directors of Telekom Austria have made positive comments. For example, only the Chamber of Workers has written the following – I would like to read it out before the red lamp stops flashing, which is very important –: Also missing is the consideration of the special importance of the postal savings bank as the house bank of the federal government and its position as a clearing office in payment transactions. The postal savings bank must therefore be able to continue to fulfil these functions. Only by this can there be sufficient business and economic considerations. - Quote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This seems to me as if someone said – that is your doctrine and your maxim – it can only change in Austria if everything remains the same. We don't want that from the ÖVP! We want to change something, and the amendment also means that not everything remains the same, but that positive changes are made for the future, that the challenges of the future will also be met accordingly and that they can be accepted. We want to achieve this with this privatisation. It is therefore high time that the decision is taken today that the course is set in the right direction of economic policy in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16595	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16619	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a comment to Mr Grossruck: I am engaged in a private business and what the employees are doing, I would like to sum up in a sentence Existing employment conditions of people who are long in operation are being reduced, and people are admitted through leasing companies so that the hourly wage can be reduced from 93 S to 73 S. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who do you mean "the"?]] [[Abg. Fischl: These are certainly operational councils!]] That's the reality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who are "the ones"?]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now on the present government proposals, especially the ÖIAG Act, which is to be adopted today. These are unacceptable to me in the form they exist here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a mental attitude! The Gaugg will like what you said now!]] - Right! I would like to say that 13 days ago, at the public hearing of the Industrial Committee, Mr. Grasser, who is unfortunately not present, called for cooperation and said that the opposition would also have the opportunity to do so. However, the fact is that, after this public hearing in the Industrial Committee, it was not a matter of a minute's thought to allow us to participate as an opposition. Our proposal to postpone the hearing was not accepted. Our amendments, which do not contain any special requests, but rather ensure simple, basic conditions, were also rejected, such as regarding the collective contract for the post-sparbank, in which around 2,200 employees are involved. Ladies and gentlemen! 65 percent of these women are women, and a quarter of the women employed are single women. In addition, however, I would like to say that about three-quarters of employees in the income sector are between 12 000 S and 14 000 S. § 7 para. 10 of the Postsparks Act has so far ensured that colleagues as federal servants must not suffer a disadvantage. However, the removal of this section removes the application of the Federal Equal Treatment Act. This calls into question the equal treatment officer on the one hand, and on the other – which is even more problematic – the implementation of the Women's Promotion Plan and the inclusion in the Ministry of Finance's Women's Promotion Plan on the other. [[Abg. Silhavy: There you can see again how anti-female this policy is!]] - That's right! This means that the women's staff of the Postsparkas lose the right to this promotion. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a massive deterioration for Members in the post office! It is, of course, right that the experts, although not all, have made very clear how privatisation should take place and how much money it will bring. However, no single proposal has been put forward for what should happen to employees. A privatisation of up to 100 percent, which must be completed under great political pressure within a short period of time, led to a massive price decline of the companies thus prized for sale. For example, in Austria tobacco, the majority of turnover consists of license contracts with tobacco multis. And I'm going to watch my statement today, because if I sell to one of these multis, there's a risk that the others will retreat. Philipp Morris has a huge plant in Munich, which is currently only 70 percent spent. With a capacity increase to 85 percent, Austria as a whole could be provided. The local locations of the AT such as Fürstenfeld, Hainburg, Linz and Schwaz in Tyrol would have to be closed. I have already pointed out in the Committee on Industry that 3 800 employees would thereby lose their jobs. In addition, there are still 500 subcontractors with their employees. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP's consent to these government documents shows that all the statements regarding the expansion of the Austrian economic location, but also regarding improvements for employees at their various events, are only empty phrases. I am now submitting the following amendment, and I hope that you will be supported by the government parties if you are concerned about the employees. [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that the Federal Government will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16754	The amendment tabled by Mr Vergestnich and Mr Bauer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Gaugg, the next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16778	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the SPÖ had privatized the "consumer" in good time years ago, Austria would have remained a huge plate and 17 000 people would still have a job. This is your form of economic policy! You cannot save this example. You will hear that again and again in the next few years. [[Abg. Huber: How many pleas did private?]] It was spoken by the SPÖ companies of enemy takeovers by abroad and that the headquarters would then be abroad. I call it Chrysler/Graz, I call BMW/Steyr and other companies that have created solid jobs in Austria. The Group's headquarters are held abroad, but regardless of which, the highly qualified jobs created by private companies are. Take note of this! It's just too adventurous! They keep praying for a two-class society. The SPÖ wants to be modern and future-oriented, but in truth, dear comrades, it says we should be back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] That can't be true! They believe that only the nationalized industry with its 120 000 employees would be able to guarantee these jobs in the future. The opposite is the case! If you had discharged Deutsche Telekom with all its employees into the private sector years ago, then I am convinced that the company itself and especially its employees stand far better than they are today, since they are still good and solid contributors of the ÖGB. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is your greatest concern that when these companies are privatised, the influence of the ÖGB goes back, because at the same time as the entry declaration, ÖGB accession must not be signed. That's what seems to be particularly disturbing to you. I would like to say the following: So far, in the case of Supervisory Regulations, the principle that someone has gone to social-democratic training was the more called he was to sit in any Supervisory Board, regardless of his professional qualifications! I also remember the "consumer" where the ARBÖ President was Chairman of the Supervisory Board for many years. Well, the benefits are well known. And because there are changes now, great lamentations are in place. I'll give you an example, the KELAG in Carinthia. What a lamentation! It has been threatened to tear Haider down to the Constitutional Court because he has replaced the Supervisory Boards, namely, the Party-political Supervisory Boards and experts in them. The argument of the socialists was highly interesting. You meant that was all Haider's friends. – No, they will still be! But they are all successful businessmen! Today, ask your Social Democratic Works Councils how they agree with the measures of the Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Edlinger: Nothing's happened yet! Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.]] This is the best proof that it can work, because I am convinced that through these privatisation steps and the changes in the board of directors of ÖIAG, there is also an opportunity for social improvements for employees. What the Socialists always claim to do does not take place! As far as you are concerned, the post that has grown to your heart, which now wants to make people aware of the condition of the situation in the business meetings of the staff representatives and in extended business meetings, once there was a letter from Mr Sindelka and Mr Ditz, after which 9 500 employees had to be terminated, I missed a call. That was, I think, in 1997. There was the great silence of staff representatives in the post office. I didn't hear of any demonstrations, nothing! But at that time there was also a socialist Federal Chancellor, so we were not allowed. We had to keep quiet! Where was the protest? Where, then, has the protest remained for years that there are postal customers who earn only 11 500 s after 15 or 20 years of service? Where was the protest of the Social Democrats that you are underpaid if you use the bike in the wind and weather I don't know which mountain to cycle up? I never heard of that! It was only about the benefits for the chief days. That's already working. The staff representatives have always made best careers, at the ÖBB, at the post, everywhere! This was looked at, because they were the opinion-makers in the company, but the employees were not looked at. These employees now have a great chance. Why don't you give the post worker, the person responsible there the chance they need! If they can prove themselves on the free market, they will also earn accordingly. Because leasing companies have been addressed, I have to say, of course, there are black sheep there too. But many employees today are happy to be active in leasing companies because they are constantly charged and they are well paid there. They are well paid because they are not dependent on any collective contract that is not present because you have failed to produce it properly in recent years. What to understand You're under social justice? – That the railway driver is still allowed to retire at 53 years of age, but the other is supposed to work up to 65? – This is your social justice! Their social justice is that after five years, workers' chamber presidents receive 80 percent of the final pension as pension. Their social justice is that ÖGB and workers' chamber officials have collective agreements, which workers can only dream of in the free market and even in the national light! Since you're always talking about enemy takeovers, it should be said: Her party in the Styria was the one who has said this, please, dear French, buy us the STEWEAG or shares of it, because that brings us 1 billion schilling. These opportunities for privatisation should not be satisfied. One has for years failed to take the steps at the right time. But it's not too late yet! This opportunity for privatisation exists, there is a chance to improve incomes. But there are also those international accusations, from OECD and others, according to which things go far too slowly in Austria, others that have arrived much later would already overtake us. Several of these have already been mentioned today. Do not always presuppose to the private sector and the employees employed there that the workers in the state-owned industry actually live in paradise, but the "outside" are bad. It's not like that! There are good companies everywhere, including in the private sector, that pay their employees decently and decently. I would or would have expected of those who have been talking about these things for years. And that I'd be so overheared to be sold and the right of participation would be missing, I must say, are lamentations I don't understand. First of all, you have a lot of speaking time in the House, you have an unlimited speaking time in the committees. There are, as you know, review procedures and similar more. Everyone expresses himself, for example, the Chamber of Workers. I would have wished before, when there was a red and black coalition, more often that the Chamber of Labour would only have had us with opinions as much as it is now. Now we get a review by the Chamber of Workers for every addition in the law. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's always been it!]] That's not unreal. This is a working paper that everyone can have. However, I would have expected to do more on the occasion of all the pension reforms and similar reforms. That is what I am accusing of social democracy, which is now in a role which it does not know, since all the representatives of the Social Democrats in this House do not know the opposition. 30 years of government and, in good German, can do and let what you want – and forget people! That's why you've also been selected. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Don't worry about us!]] That's the reason. You and your kind of politics have been chosen. But now you do not want to give a new policy a chance to make available through privatisation those funds that will save taxpayers that will continue to use tax money for marode nationalized businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16873	The next item is the speech by Mr Dobnigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16900	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before: Mr Gaugg – before You leave the hall – you have spoken of social justice. [[Abg. Gaugg: Where is she with you?]] You are only in power for a few months and you are already initiating a redistribution of the weak to the rich. Is this the social justice you keep putting into space? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, as a representative of employees, the issue of ownership is not a dogma. [[Abg. Gaugg: Just like Mr Vergestnich in the penthouse of BAWAG!]] – No, I let you talk, let me talk too! [[Abg. Edlinger: (in the direction of Abg. Gaugg) That's class fight!]] However, it should be clarified in advance: We Social Democrats are committed to meaningful privatisation steps. [[Abg. Gaugg: Meaningful?- Oh, my God!]] For our country, however, we are favouring the industrial policy approach of the core shareholder philosophy in front of a purely sales ideology for debt reduction, as you plan from the government parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gaugg.]] The ÖIAG currently has significant shares in numerous companies. These enterprises have changed over the last few years to flourishing industrial enterprises. For example, since 1987, the VA steel has not received any more schilling from the state. That only a previous speaker, my colleague, Grossruck, remembers! At the Donawitz site, the world's state-of-the-art steel plant will start testing in a few days. In the area of wire, Donawitz is market champion, in the area of rail world champions. [[Abg. Fischl: After you threw the operation... and a lot of people out!]] – Mr Fischl! A few years ago, her still-Parteiobmann said that Donawitz belonged to him. We have invested in the future, we have secured the Donawitz site in the longer term. I invite you today to visit us in Donawitz to get an idea of the work on site. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Fischl and Mr Gradwelt.]] Many other holdings from the ÖIAG area could be listed, which have taken such a turnaround. These good results are solely due to the joint use and performance of staff and management. This is a few previous speakers, especially colleagues Grossruck and Kukacka, who repeatedly claim that only in the private industry the managers were successful, written into the main book! What does this blue-black federal government plan with our economically successful domestic companies? – They are to be destroyed abroad! Why abroad? – Because there are certainly not enough financially potent investors in Austria who can afford to participate in this scale. Therefore, all companies would be classical takeover candidates. Ladies and gentlemen! The jobs of up to 120,000 workers are at risk by this overcrowded sale, which only serves to cover short-term debt. In my home region, the Upper Styria, 15 percent of the employees were threatened with unemployment. Also valuable know-how went irrevocably abroad. Important business substance in industry and infrastructure would be at risk, and strategicly important centres of competence would be transferred abroad. They of ÖVP and FPÖ are constantly talking about red-white-red. I am still in the best memory of what efforts were needed so that we could again acquire 50 percent of the shares of the UAE in tentway, which produces one railway system. We would otherwise have become a classic takeover candidate for the French competition, and it would have been only a matter of time until it had come to a close in tentway. But the example Semperit in Traiskirchen has also led us painfully to see how quickly highly qualified jobs can be destroyed in the companies concerned, but also in numerous subcontractors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We Socialists are opposed to the privatisation ideology of the FPÖ-ÖVP government, which is obviously completely indifferent to the well-being of domestic workers. We Socialists are committed to the preservation of strong domestic industrial cores, because only in this way can Austria's economic location remain attractive and jobs can be safeguarded and created. Our goal must be to keep key sectors of our industry under Austrian influence. Therefore, ÖIAG needs to become a joint venture which is a core shareholder in these key companies. For this, the share of 25 percent plus a share is necessary. In our opinion, this would be red and white-red industrial policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another negative aspect of this law is the time pressure under which industrial participations are to be ruined. In fact, it was necessary to reduce the price of the companies so priced for sale. The exchange rates are falling into the basement, the ÖVP FPÖ government is destroying Austrian assets continuously by its operations. However, the summit of the anti-employee policy of this Federal Government is the new occupation of the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG. The group of entrepreneurs sent there could also be called the Prinzhorn-Friendeskreis. Mr Prinzhorn! In your speech, you have given examples of foreign businesses. This clearly shows that you are not about red-and-white red, but only about a quick sale out of Austrian companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You and the government parties think only of the profits and the stock exchange. With us Social Democrats, however, employees with their families are in the foreground! On the social attitude of Mr Prinzhorn. It is generally known that when you take over the paper factory in Niklasdorf, you have initially terminated all the employees and returned to work under worse conditions. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] So what is the new economic and social policy of the Black and Blue Federal Government? – Social reduction, pension cuts, health tax, job reduction, hidden home businesses – all on the back of workers and socially weak! [[Call the SPÖ:Pfui!]] In contrast to ÖVP and FPÖ, our staff representatives and social democrats are concerned with a forward-looking Austrian industrial policy, but above all with site security and, with it, with the protection and preservation of red-and-white-red – Austrian jobs! Finally, I would like to point out that neither the Styrian head of state, Klasnic, nor its Economic Council, Paierl, have delivered an opinion on the ÖIAG Act 2000. Mrs Landeshauptmann Klasnic responded quickly to the ÖVP agreement today and sent a telegram to Vienna, but the tens of thousands of Styrian workers with their families were apparently not worth a single line. Finally, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This provision corresponds to the current legal situation. The involvement of the social partners in privatisation matters has proved successful and should also be maintained. In particular, it ensures that the over-company and macroeconomic context of privatisation projects is adequately taken into account. This is also a red and white-red concern.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17082	The amendment tabled by Mr Vergestnitsch and Mr Dobnigg is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17109	The President-in-Office kindly asked me for the following actual correction [[Abg. That's what the President said!]] The termination claimed by Mr Dobnigg by President Prinzhorn in Niklasdorf has never taken place. Rather, it was terminated by the state because this state-owned operation was reduced to indebtedness. Mr Prinzhorn has taken over this state-run operation and has recruited all workers and employees so that they have work, although the state would not have been able to carry on this operation.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17147	Next item is the report by Mrs Pecher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17168	Mr President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] - Not again, now it's slow. I would like to explain in writing why I have remained. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Some of the Socialist Party's amendments are already before you today, and a total of six amendments have been tabled immediately before the start of the Industrial Committee. Of course, the Members had no opportunity to study these amendments. If one reads them afterwards, one feels that they should serve to calm down the conscience of those who must justify themselves before their trade union members. [[Abg. Dobnigg: The members of the Industrial Committee have gotten this at the hearing!]] – Yes, at the Industry Committee, during the hearing we got it. Such amendments should normally be possible to study for at least one day. [[Abg. Gradwell: What about the coalition proposals? When did we get it?]] – I only have 4 minutes, and I ask you to let me talk. Nor do these amendments comply with the notions of a modern economic policy, nor do they serve to improve and strengthen the competitiveness of businesses. I can read out an important paragraph from these amendments to show why I mean that. In the Government proposal, § 7 para. 1 very clearly: The ÖIAG is responsible for complete or partial privatisation. According to the honourable Member, this section is to be amended in so far as I quote: ÖIAG is a long-term holding company with a view to maintaining the interests of the federal government with a view to maintaining important Austrian economic enterprises and value added at the Austrian site, as far as economically reasonable. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I must tell you, if I sat in the Supervisory Board of such a AG, I would not know what the owner's will in relation to this stock company is actually. Ladies and gentlemen! What does it mean to be economically acceptable? – Are 80 billion Schilling debt the ÖIAG has accumulated still economically acceptable? One of the experts who attended this committee or hearing also said: Without the receipt of PTBG, the ÖIAG will not be able to repay interest rates from 2003, let alone the debts incurred. I therefore believe that there is a need for a clear privatisation mandate. Everything else would mean waiting and would mean that the debt mountain continues to grow. One already has the feeling that the economic policies of the Socialists in recent years are more like a blockade policy or a "forceful happiness which one cannot afford anymore", as your former Minister of Finance described very true. But also the quote of Mr. Gusenbauer in the journal "Entrepreneurs" from April of this year is clearly striking this notch. Gusenbauer was asked what he felt when the national lights were pleading at the time. He said: This disaster has shown the clear need to carry out reforms in order to reorganise businesses and make them competitive on the one hand. – Ladies and gentlemen! If a disaster first requires that reforms be needed and businesses made competitive, then I must say that I am entrepreneurship, I certainly do not imagine modern economic policy. I therefore believe that we will not stop globalisation – not us and not you. That is why we have nothing but to make the business location and the companies competitive so that they can prevail in this globalised world. Three things are necessary for this. We need to look for the right owners as strategic partners, and this Supervisory Board is responsible for finding them. We need to revive the stock markets. I quote from a German study that proves that the German gross domestic product would be almost one percentage point higher, the stock market would be invigorated; this is in Austria a gross domestic product of 10 billion schilling higher per year. And we need to find concepts for modern employee participation, because in this respect too, we are clearly following the other EU countries and, above all, America.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17225	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17247	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! At the outset, I would also like to make an amendment, but before that, Mrs Pecher pointed out – Mr Gradwelt said that in an intermediate call – if you are sitting in a glass house, you should not throw stones. We have only received the coalition proposals on the day of the Committee on Industry. It would have been time for us to have the reasonableness of our proposals, which we have tabled, to say that, in relation to our colleague, Pecher, we should not throw stones in the glass house; that is where he is right to examine. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: With paving stones!]] But now to my request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as my amendment is concerned. It is intended to provide legal clarification so that the Federal Equality Act can continue to apply to these staff in the future. Now come back to the matter again: I myself come from an area, from a district where we have had a sad experience with foreign participation. With us in the Vöcklabruck district, there were the Austrian fibre plants, which were 49 percent domestically owned and 51 percent owned by Hoechst AG. They had four works. For capacity reasons, one had to lock one, and one locked the Austrian work, which was the best at the time, because – under Kohl at that time – one had not politically prevented a German work from being blocked in Germany. And these fears are there. I already admit: There are quite positive experiences with foreign participations and businesses, but there are also a lot of negative examples, and the employees in such - even for Austria, I mean - are afraid of important businesses. The privatisations of the ÖIAG in recent years have certainly been a success story, for which the coalition partners were jointly responsible. But what is happening now is certainly no longer borne by the same responsibility and caution. There once was a Martin Luther King who said: "I had a dream." The same could be said by our President, Prince. He also has a dream: He wants everything to be 100 percent privatized and ruined. In view of this, I am, of course, a little uncertain, but thank God, there is the somewhat tiring Minister of Finance Grasser – he has been quoted today – who has calmed down the works councils and staff of essential enterprises and said that they do not need to worry that the shares of these companies are worsened by more than 25 percent plus one. That means there's a little bit of a discrepancy between Prinzhorn and Grasser. But I liked Grasser today, and he's not necessarily for paying the rent money for everyone. So there are certain tensions, whose output will be "stressing" in the next time. President Prinzhorn is similar to his party leader – now I would almost have said "leader" again – who likes to talk in beer tents, not mouthfaul. Perhaps the ÖVP should be the "profile" of the 10th century. Look a little more closely on April. In it he – perhaps it is indeed so; it is a prince horn dream and a prince horn law – the economic policy for his party and says: In addition, I do not see any concrete approaches in the EIA to what extent the new VP economic policy should differ from the old one. – That sounds rather critical. Regarding Federal Chancellor Schüssel, he says: How should a party whose party was part of a rigid system become an initiative reform government for 30 years? – The ÖVP is thus a bit the attachment of the blue government force, at least says President Prinzhorn. I believe that such representatives of the economy like President Prinzhorn are a cause for concern for us because we know this way of thinking – a way of thinking that can be seen in all the measures of the new Federal Government: Reducing workers' rights, pushing back workers' facilities, which may be replaced by Magna facilities at the operational level, and not over-company strengthening. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] - There you can scream, but that's it. This may be stupid for colleagues because the Chamber of Commerce is not yet in the shooting field. The Chamber of Commerce is not yet to be restricted financially. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: We limit ourselves! That's the difference!]] She also has more money, I admit. But that's the method. That's system. We have recognized this very precisely, and we will fight it accordingly. We really don't want a "prinzhorization" of our businesses. We're going to fight it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17343	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17364	Mr President. High house! Today, the claim has often been made that it should be sold as soon as possible only in order to eliminate debts. – This is not the way the privatisation order is to the ÖIAG. The ÖIAG must fulfil the privatisation contract in the following form: in the interests of the population, for the best possible income, taking into account the interests of the undertakings and while respecting Austrian interests. When carrying out the privatisation contract, ÖIAG is free, the ÖIAG institutions may act freely within their discretion. The Management Board shall submit to the Supervisory Board a multiannual privatisation programme for approval, on the basis of which annual privatisation steps shall be decided. The purpose of privatisation is certainly to eliminate the debt. The debt must therefore be cancelled because otherwise they will be staggering for the budget. But it's healthy businesses to create. Healthy farms are achieved by being able to operate freely, without conditions or under the legal framework, and by creating jobs in particular. In addition, the market square in Vienna is to be strengthened. That would be very necessary. It has also been mentioned today how important a functioning stock exchange place is. Internationalisation is very important for economic policy. It can't be that a participation or a purchase of companies is good if it makes an Austrian company abroad, but vice versa, it's a sale out. In the economy today, reciprocity must apply, and especially for an export-oriented country like Austria, internationalisation is a very important step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17401	I'm going to: The amendment tabled by Mr Vergestnich and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Böhacker spoke next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17425	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In drawing horror scenarios, Mr. Dr. Doppelmüller has seamlessly classified himself in the series of social-democratic statements. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: I praised the Minister of Finance!]] It actually started quite well in the early days with the statements by Mr Verzellnitsch. He has even tried the consensus in red and white red, and this has brought me hope that the SPÖ will be able to learn and will perhaps give this privatisation law the consent. But the hope was deceptive and only for a short time. For already in the second sentence, President Vergestnich has given a rejection to this consensus in red and white red. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: A dissertation in black and blue!]] Dr. Doppelmüller! The analysis made here by Mr Vergestnich was quite correct, consistent and good. He said it was about the assets of the Austrians – parentheses on: with a backpack full of debt of 80 billion schilling. - Right! It's about the assets of the Austrians. It is about Austria's industrial policy future. - Right! I'm even saying, It is about a successful industrial policy future in Austria. It is also about many small and medium-sized subcontractors. . Right, Mr President of the Council! It is also about 5 percent of Austrian employees, which is about 150,000 employees. - So far, so good. The conclusion that you have drawn from your self-analysis, Mr President, is absolutely wrong: It's supposed to stay with the old man, just don't touch anything! The state as such should be preserved. This conclusion, which you and your subsequent speakers have drawn from Social Democracy, is just as wrong as the national policy of the Social Democrats of the 1970s and 1980s. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: When did you come today?]] Mr President of the Council! If you and the SPÖ had already done this analysis and drawn the right conclusions from it, then it would have been possible to obtain 20 000 jobs in industry, then it would not have been that the Austrian taxpayer would have to pay more than 100 billion schillings for the national leader, for which essentially you have the responsibility of social democracy. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Did you hear about the global steel crisis? Did you hear about the global steel crisis?]] – Dear brother-in-law, Master Teacher! Please do not interfere in industrial policy, do your job as a senior teacher, but not here in this House! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Schweitzer is also a teacher! This is professional discrimination!]] Even if you don't want to hear it, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: For the National Enlightenment, you bear the responsibility, and it is unfortunate that you have learned nothing from this disaster, from this story. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With a good piece of goodwill I understand the excitement in the SPÖ. It's true – let's be honest! –: For many years, you have viewed the nationalized industry as your almost personal property and the employees, the skilled employees in these businesses as your practically strategic and useful electoral potential, with which you have repeatedly tried to reach politically appropriate majority. If you are now taken away from this political playground, you will find it as hard as the loss of power by falling out of the Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why your argument, which you are constantly presenting here in connection with this draft law, is unbelievable and inaccurate. Ladies and gentlemen! You should note that there are a variety of reasons why these privatizations should come about. There are many experts who say that the state has served as an entrepreneur. [[Abg. Gradwelt: That's not how many!]] This is a trend that is not only visible in Austria, but is international. I already agree that not every private entrepreneur must be a good entrepreneur, but the majority of private entrepreneurs who risk their own capital are able to operate better. That is to say, the entrepreneurs' state has been in the widest range. Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, it is quite business-economic, but also economic, if existing debts are covered by sale or privatisation. It is only a first step, a one-time measure, but with a sustainable effect, because it reduces interest rate service, reduces capitalisation costs and thereby achieves more financial mobility. Thirdly, the capital market, which is actually underexposed in Austria, could be really stimulated by this privatisation, and it could be appropriate for the population to take appropriate measures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, fourthly by creating new forms of participation, it would be possible for employees, in particular, to be involved in their companies, in the company's own capital and thus to benefit accordingly from the benefits of this company. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, these privatizations, which this Federal Government is developing intelligently, without time pressure and free from party political and ideological constraints, create those framework conditions that allow these companies to succeed in the harsh climate of globalisation, in times when it has become really more difficult to operate – not only to survive but to succeed. Successful economies mean securing successful businesses, ensuring existing jobs, creating new jobs, increasing income, better wages – in short: more prosperity for all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17543	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17564	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I would like to make the following request at the beginning: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are discussing this ÖIAG law today and are very controversial, but still acting on clear tracks, I can only say that from our point of view this privatisation law is very little ambitious as regards the pace, quality and revenues we are hoping for from this privatisation, because with 84 billion schilling of possible revenues from these societies, this federal government has not really started to work optimistically. More ambitious, however, has been done to break down the supervisory positions, the political functions and the political "adres" of these ÖIAGs, so to speak, and to put the economy of friends and nepotism, as it has been mentioned today, back into this political activity. I will later justify why I believe that it is quite the case and that the political proportion is replaced by the personal proportion. The reasons why you don't want a stock-holder ÖIAG, I think, have come out clearly even today. My previous speaker in the debate explained this very well and honestly: One simply wants these trade unions, the works councils and the workers-oriented organisations, which are, of course, better organized in these public enterprises than in small and medium-sized enterprises – that is already right – to lose influence, in power. One wants these colleagues to be unable to influence industrial policy, income policy, employment policy in Austria as they may have been in recent years and have led to prosperity in Austria. This is essentially the goal. It is clear that there is, of course, a very emotional rejection of all the public property that has been quilted in your heart and recognizable in every contribution to the debate. [[Abg. Kampichler: Because there have above all been negative examples!]] I think, dear friend, you feel formally out, everything that is public property is bad, is inexcusable, is awfully horrendous. [[Abg. Kampichler: Not everything, but much!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But "consumer" definitely!]] Private is good, public is bad. I am surprised that our friends from the Austrian agricultural community join these positions. It is essentially a matter of reducing or destroying the social middle construction in Austria. Mr President, Mr Prinzhorn has already mentioned the Argentine conditions in praise. There "real" was successfully privatized, it doesn't work there anymore, and the social middle construction in Argentina has gone smoothly for a long time. There are a little more empires, there are a lot more poor people in front of all things. The methods that are being used have already been carried out today, up to the incorrect approach of the Minister of Finance with his "trautors" or those of the Prinzhorn-Grasser-Clan. These ebony-like conditions remind me of other times, it is really strange. At any rate, great ideological recklessness is taking place. Therefore, we are also concerned that these activities relating to privatisation in the ÖIAG area will not be successful over the stage. I therefore believe that it will be necessary to ensure that this federal government or these "privatisation people" do not make a self-service shop out of the ÖIAG. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] I mean, it has to be paid great attention to the fact that not even in the Scientology field, great capital increase from Austrian state resources will be recruited. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's a fool!]] - Unfortunately, that's not stupid.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17682	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Vergestnitsch, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Genossinen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Kampichler spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17706	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖIAG legislative amendment, the ÖIAG Law 2000, provides for the majority or total privatization of business enterprises directly owned by the federal government. The ÖIAG will carry out the necessary privatisations, and the proceeds will be used primarily for the repayment of the old debt. The taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen, who are currently liable for these high debts, will be released from his liability. My previous speakers have already pointed this out in great detail. I would just like to say that I very much welcome these steps, because the privatisations that I have been able to follow in recent years have been very successful. I know examples from my district. Ternitz will be a term for you. We had a nationalized industry, which, although very many people have employed, was unfortunately very deficient in God. These companies are now successfully privatized. Unfortunately, God's fewer people are busy today, but the businesses write black numbers. Some businesses, ladies and gentlemen, were even taken over by the former employees. These companies are making themselves very successful in the more difficult world market. – In other words, employee participation is fortunately also expressly desired in this privatisation wave. Participation models, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen – also mentioned today – are mostly very successful. Staff who are also partners in their business are more responsible. They identify more closely with their operations, and they think more performance-oriented. A positive example of recent years was the EVN in Lower Austria, for example: 44 percent of EVN's employees have participated in this privatisation wave in their company. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With today's decision-making, we also ensure that sales revenues are optimised. The Secretary of State is pleased to have just made it very clear which action should be taken. The decision on the timing and extent of privatisation lies solely in the discretion of the ÖIAG institutions. [[Abg. And the Council of Ministers' decision no longer?]] A multiannual privatisation programme is planned. [[Abg. That's the one!]] Mr President. I have only taken this from the documents, from the committee reports, and for me this was a very important point because it disproves the fears expressed by speakers from your group that they are sold quickly or quickly. – I believe that a very good path has been taken. It is simply the skill of the managers to achieve the corresponding sales revenues. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with these essential steps we are very successful in securing jobs in Austria in particular. We may experience pleasant surprises about what the proceeds are. Let's talk about it when the privatisation wave is completed! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17757	Mr Firlinger, the next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17778	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate on the Privatization Act has once again brought out quite clearly the ideological breakdown lines. That was a very clear understanding, and I am pleased that it is also approved by the Social Democratic Party. It would also be foolish to deny this, ladies and gentlemen. The position of the Social Democrats is quite clear. In general, privatisation is a taboo theme. Let's open up what it is! Let's not talk around for long! Privatisation is not desired because – which was impressively recognised from the contributions to debate – privatisation with social reduction, employment reduction, the loss of Austrian identity, and so on, is closely equated. Only, ladies and gentlemen, are addressed to your address: They seem to have not studied any successful examples in the world at all. You don't care, because otherwise you wouldn't come to such bakey statements. They also put – that is something that is very disturbing to me – industrial policy in Austria in the same way as industrial policy of national enterprises. You have no industrial policy in general, that is to say the creation of favourable industrial policy conditions, which is not an issue for you. They understand in industrial policy ÖIAG policy, works council policy – all that we have had for ten years in the suffering of Austrian taxpayers and in which the Republic has duly 'bleached', ladies and gentlemen! You seem to have forgotten all this. You don't look into the future, ladies and gentlemen, if you say again and again today, a privatisation doesn't come into question, even if you occasionally admit a small, moderate privatisation, a sale in 5 percent packages we could already imagine, but... – No, I was already there. [[Abg. Gradwelt: You either weren't there or...!]] I have also listened very closely to all the committee meetings and have been actively involved in the debate, Mr President. But you go blind eyes through the industrial world. Today it was repeatedly addressed to Donawitz, steel companies. We have to defend our sphere of influence on prosperity and corruption, because the railway is over it, that is ours. – Have this impression She keeps conveying it again and again. I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what happens, even if there is no further and no additional and international and wide spread of the stock market privatized: You'll miss the transfer a second time there. Just go to the media, look at what is happening internationally! 500 kilometers from here, perhaps 600 kilometers, in eastern Slovakia, a new steel giant is created. I assume, Mr Vergestnich, that you will have heard or read this or not. It may also be that you are not interested in all of this. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's a premise!]] There, Mrs Collaborative, a new giant is being created. There was a state economy in proven East Block manner, which has managed. There, 500 kilometres east of Vienna, the steel giant US-Steel rises, will invest billions and set up the most modern steel plant in Europe. From there there will be deliveries to Europe. If not equally invested with international capital and also with national private capital in Austria, we will simply miss the transfer. I don't know why all this is so complicated that it doesn't want into your brain. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But that's the ideological barrier you have. They are on the question of national policy and on the question of privatisation for ten years with attracted lead-patters on the road – that is a naked fact – and the upper brake block of the last German government – a pity that he is not here now – was Federal Minister Edlinger. He tried to turn off what was going on, and under his leadership there was also a contract concerning Telekom AG. It is difficult to put a second strategic investor there, but it is feasible. But this Minister of Finance Edlinger is significantly responsible for the fact that I believe there is a misguided syndicate agreement concluded between the representatives of the ÖIAG and the Italian holding company, the holding of the Italian Telecom. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you know who negotiated the contract? – That was the former State Secretary Ditz!]] And who was the wiredriver of the whole, ladies and gentlemen, who was the agent who opened the door for the Italians, as it were, Mr Parnigoni? – It was Mr Mag. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This has made the contract!]] Karl Krammer, his sign consultant to former Chancellor Vranitzky. These are facts that you cannot deny, and I will not tire out to emphasize that again and again, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Here – and since socialist prevention policy manifests itself – a contract has been concluded that makes it difficult to privatize in the future. You don't need to be a big insider, Mr. Parnigoni, in order to recognize a few basic and important contexts, you only have to go through Austria with open eyes and ears. Then everything will be clear to you, ladies and gentlemen. This policy, with this prevention policy, with the opposite of innovation, with the opposite of economic promotion must be finally cleaned up. With this law, we, as representatives of the government parties, are taking an important step in the right direction – he should have come just five years earlier.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17869	Mr Parnigoni spoke in favour of an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17893	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My predecessor claimed that a Mr. Karl Krammer had negotiated and signed the syndicate agreement with Telekom Austria and the Italians. I am right that this is not true, but that this syndicate agreement with Telekom Austria and the Italian partners of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Telekom Austria, former State Secretary Ditz, has negotiated and signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17929	As the next speaker, Mr Prince spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17950	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== April was clearly expressed by the experts with overwhelming majority that the state is usually a less successful businessman than private. [[Abg. Grade: What are you talking about?]] The State should, in principle, withdraw from undertakings. There are enough examples from the past here. This is particularly true if the state interferes too much and this state influence may still suffer relatively much from the SPÖ's domination. Let's think about the "consumer" plea. The current debate on SPÖ's debt – and we think about the morning – may be another quality criterion for the entrepreneurship of this organisation. Are you really so scared, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ that you lose your influence that you still act as if the companies of the ÖIAG were property of SPÖ? [[Abg. Gradwell: Do you really have so little idea of things?]] Finally, stop putting your party political interest in economic policy interests! In this area, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to mention the workers, with confidence, once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps you should look at the OECD report each year. What does the OECD report say about the national lights in Austria? – Towing privatisation, generally too high state influence, too many state regulations. That's what the OECD report says. If ÖIAG’s price development had not been inhibited by state participation, the old debt of 80 billion schilling could certainly have been reduced and further proceeds would have been left for the restructuring of the government budget. How irresponsibly the SPÖ operates here, that actually screams to heaven. People prefer, with privatisation, entrepreneurs and investors from abroad, who would only have the intention of reducing the number of workers in Austria, that is, I believe, really infammity and insulting the investors. Consider the many positive examples: Siemens, Opel, BMW in Steyr and so on. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Who has resisted the BMW investors!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the framework conditions are crucial whether to invest in jobs or not, whether domestic or foreign investors. And if you call so loud, your arguments won't be better. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] Austria is not alone – Mr Dietachmayr, quiet, quiet blood; it does not do well at your age to stir up like this – Austria is not alone in privatizing with the need. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Yes, be nice quiet!]] Italy saved 263 billion Schilling in the previous year, and France's government is fully committed to privatisation. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: But privatize fairly!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: But privatize with brain, Mr. Colleague!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this case one might even think that we should look towards the West, even though during the last months some members of this House may have turned their eyes too strongly outward. A clear removal of the SPÖ and the Greens from EU sanctions would certainly not harm the economic location of Austria. The SPÖ has not yet distanced itself. Or perhaps the sanctions that have been proclaimed correspond to the scale of values of the Socialist International, whose alternate is obviously Mr Gusenbauer? Allow me to say: Mr Gusenbauer can continue his anti-Austria course. Equipped with the red chef, he is really a true sympathizer. One last sentence: We will not come to see Austria's half-hour football game against Croatia, but allow me to compare: Personally, I am convinced that Mr. Gusenbauer and his organization will drift beyond the left margin of the field, while the government parties will ensure that Austria can continue to play in the economic champions League.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18072	I call Mr Fischl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18113	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have, as it were, the privilege of speaking at the end of this debate, and I would like to take this opportunity to refer once again to the first speaker in this debate, namely Mr Vergestnitsch's speech. Mr President. You said two remarkable sentences to me. The first sentence for me was so remarkable that you meant that you should come to a red-white-red consensus or shoulder closure in the sense of the nationalized industry, especially when it comes to preserving state assets. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I have to tell you: I am now a member of this House for ten years with a few interruptions. I've experienced ten years directly and indirectly, how you've preserved people's wealth. An shoulder closure with you, with your doctrine and with your ideology – plan economy instead of market economy – it will, I can guarantee you from this point on, will certainly not be with us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And I would also like to tell you why, my colleague: One who was politically co-responsible for the fact that some 100 000 jobs in the state-owned industry have been lost over the last few decades, that this state-owned industry had to be supported by up to 120 billion schilling state capital in reorganisation contributions, or still has to be supported, someone who took over the government in that country, which was almost debt-free at the time, and left us today with 1,700 billion public debt, public debt that we are invited to consolidate today, can't ask us to close our shoulders, Mr President! [[Abg. Silhavy: We also did not require a shoulder closure with you!]] That's impossible! That would be sick, and we don't want it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: We also don't!]] The second sentence for me was so remarkable that, in relation to the statements made by Minister of Finance Grasser, you meant that speeches were one thing, and reality was the other. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You are right, but I would like to address the realities you have created. This includes not only a financial debacle, not only a monetary disaster, which we find today, not only the fact that we have run a better future at the expense of the next generations, but also the fact that we find in our country almost the highest tax rate, if we compare it with other countries in Europe, that we must take on an increase in debt which is higher than the Maastricht criteria allow your colleague Edlinger to be told by the EU to ensure that the Maastricht criteria are fulfilled in the budget. [[Abg. Silhavy: What state do you live in, Mr. Colleague? Are you a foreigner?]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] It is not just that my colleague, climate, has created the reality that he has constantly made new promises, which were as follows: We will fight for the workers, we will secure jobs and jobs!, not only have we been told at Telekom, that is, Post, we want to guarantee that no job will disappear, while some 12 000 jobs have been rationalized in the same breath, but you are also responsible for the reality that with the "consumer" one of the biggest economic arguments of this century – I think, even in the history of Austria – has been carried out, so to speak, about 17,000 employees in the "consumer" have lost their jobs and the state has been damaged with about 20 to 27 billion schilling. – That, Mr Vergestnitsch, is your reality! And now I am telling you how our realities look: saving, consolidating, truly representing the interest of the citizen, creating foundations for job creation to be sustainable, a modern industrial policy that can meet today's market mechanisms, and no planned industrial policy on the question of policy having a permanent influence, which is perhaps to grow voters somewhere and always to act only with class struggle theories. Mr Vergestnitsch! Our realities will be called: a modern industrial policy, less political influence, more flexibility, higher tax efficiency and secure jobs. We are in favour of this, and I am happy and proud that today I was the last speaker to speak before the vote of this so important law. Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18237	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member and comrades is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Once again, Mr Vergebnitsch has spoken. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18261	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry to have to disappoint my previous speaker: He's not the last speaker, I can take the floor again. It has become clear and clear, I believe, the ideology differences that exist here. If already the OECD is quoted, this can be quoted by each of us. I can also quote from an OECD report, from the same report you have quoted today, in which the trade unions for Austria are attested that they have an economic policy understanding that is being sought elsewhere. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So how does it look with ideology, ladies and gentlemen? [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] And it was noticeable: The works councils, the co-determination are a thorn in your eye. They completely forget that the Labour Constitution Act applies equally to each privatized company, which will be successful then. So you can't get rid of co-determination. You cannot choose your works councils, they are still elected by the employees. And the last elections in the nationalized industry have shown very clearly and clearly what line people are going on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For you – and this has also become clear – a successful steel industry today is bad only because it still has a nuclear shareholder state. We are far away from the black and white painting, but we turn to it again and again and again, and what you seem to overlook again and again: Here we have a Council of Ministers proposal, a decision which states: In three years is too privatized! It doesn't mean we have time, but it's "to privatize", and it doesn't mean we have to wait for the cheapest offer, no: It's too privatized! And that's the difference: We want industrial policy, you want to privatize to hell come out. We want to privatize with brains, you want to privatize on devils coming out. That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18317	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft ÖIAG Law 2000 in 77 of the Supplements. To this end, Members of Parliament and comrades have tabled several amendments. In addition, there are two requests for nominal vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments referred to or the request for a vote on them and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Vergestnich and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article I(1). 2 refers. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I leave immediately on Article I, Section 1, paragraph 1. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for this, I'm looking for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. A motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Vergestnich and Mr Comrades refers to Article I(3). 3rd. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Jene Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking for a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Deputies Vergestnich and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article I(4). 1 introduced. Whoever agrees, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I(4). 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. A motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Vergestnich and Mr Comrades refers to Article I, Section 5, para. 1. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken, and I am therefore doing so. Votes to be used are in the shop and bear the name of the deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Members of Parliament, 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Parfuss, to begin the call for name; Mrs Reitsamer will replace her later.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18436	The vote will end if all those who have been called have been cast. That's probably the case. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 8.19 p.m. and resumed at 8.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18466	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 172, of which "Yes" votes 73, "No" votes 99. The amendment tabled by the Deputies Vergestnich and Comrades concerning Article I, Section 5, para. 1 is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Sophie, Brix, Brosz, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul, fisherman; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gazner, Glavish, Grabner, Gradwelt, Green Forest, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Huber; Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, kostelka, herbs, cubits, sorrowers, kuntzl; Lacner, leikam, Lichtenberger, Lunacek; Maier, Muttons; The decision-making authority shall Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pittermann, Plank, Posch, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Rider, Riepl; Shashing, coves, slugs, boars, silhavy, sima, stoisits; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wicker, Wittmann, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Amon, Auer, Aumayr, Bauer Gerhard, Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Brinek, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, fect, feturstein, fink, firlinger, fischl, friend, frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Gaugg, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grollitsch, Großruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Haller, Hartinger, Haupt, Hofmann, Hornegger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Koßl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzmann; Leiner, Lentic, Lexer; Maderthaner, Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Of a kind used for the purposes of this Papházy, Pecher, Pistotnig, Platter, Prince, Princehorn, Pumberger; Rasinger, Reindl; Schender, Schoettel-Delacher, Schöggl, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Sodian, Spindelegger, Staffaneller, Steindl, Stummvoll; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Windholz, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18643	I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now coming to a number of votes. I now leave the article I § 5 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report, and ask those members of the House who are voting in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. In addition, Members of Parliament and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I, Section 5, para. 2 and 3 as well as § 6. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Deputies Vergestnich and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I(7) para. 1 introduced. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. As already known, the ballots to be used are in the shop and bear the name of the deputies, as well as the names "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No", which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Vergestnich and Mr Comrades to vote in favour of 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Parfuss, to begin the call for name; Mrs Reitsamer will then replace her.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18722	That concludes the vote. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18755	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: There were 171 votes. Of these were 74 "Yes" votes and 97 "No" votes. The amendment tabled by the Deputies Vergestnich and Comrades concerning Article I(7) para. 1 is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall be accompanied by the names of the Members, stating their voting behaviour in the Stenographical Protocol. With "Yes", the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Sophie, Brix, Brosz, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul, fisherman; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavishnig, Grabner, Gradwelt, Green Forest, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Huber; Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, kostelka, herbs, cubits, sorrowers, kuntzl; Lacner, leikam, Lichtenberger, Lunacek; Maier, Muttons; The decision-making authority shall Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pittermann, Plank, Posch, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Rider, Riepl; Shashing, coves, slugs, boars, silhavy, sima, stoisits; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wicker, Wittmann, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Amon, Auer, Aumayr, Bauer Gerhard, Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, fect, feturstein, fink, firlinger, fischl, friend, frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Gaugg, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grollitsch, Großruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Hartinger, chief, Hofmann, Hornegger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Koßl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzmann; Leiner, Lentic, Lexer; Maderthaner, Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Of a kind used for the purposes of this Papházy, Pecher, Pistotnig, Platter, Prince, Princehorn, Pumberger; Rasinger, Reindl; Schender, Schoettel-Delacher, Schöggl, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Sodian, Spindelegger, Staffaneller, Steindl, Stummvoll; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Windholz, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18934	I am now leaving Article I § 7 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and it is accepted. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled a amendment to Article I Section 7 para. 3, 9, 11 para. 1 and Article III(13). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and thus accepted. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article II, § 12 para. 3 refers. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately proceed to the vote on Article II, Section 12 para. 3 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. In addition, Mr Vergestnich and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article II, § 12 para. 4 refers. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. When I consent, I seek a sign of confirmation. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is majority, and it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and with that the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law on the amendment of the Federal Act on the introduction of the Austrian postal savings bank into a stock company, the Postsparkassengesetz 1969, the Banking Act and the Federal Law on the establishment of the government debt committee in 78 of the supplements. Mr Hizu, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Prinzhorn, Dr. Stumvoll and comrades submitted an amendment concerning the deletion of Article I Z 2, Article II Z 21, Article III Z 4 and Article IV Z 4. In view of the fact that there is only one amendment tabled, I shall immediately refer to the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the aforementioned amendment tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Let prince horn, Dr. stupid and comrades vote. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 4. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the report (III-28 of the Supplements) of the Federal Government on internal security in Austria (1998 Security Report) (55 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19048	We reach the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr. Peter Pilz has spoken. I'll give it to him with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19078	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There is a security report that says that our Republic is extremely secure. This is actually the case in every safety report, and we can only say that every year this is true: Yes, our Republic is generally very safe. I'm sorry, but Then there are a whole series of details to be discussed in the Committee, but I do not want to deal with them too much in detail now in the light of the advanced period. That is why I am limited to a few comments. First: The Green Group has always been the group in this House, which is characterized by a particularly positive relationship with the safety executive. [[Abg. Young: To safety!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Young.]] We have always supported the service of officials. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] We have always tried to represent the legitimate social concerns of officials to improve the interests of training. We note that we have not been successful everywhere, but as greens against the prevailing uncertainty policy of parts of the Federal Government we have always achieved some good successes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Austrian security executive knows that it has reliable partners in us Greens. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Schlögl.]] Together, we will be able to achieve some improvements from a very high level of public security and, where a current majority in this House is not on the side of a consistent security policy, we will perhaps find other majorities. I would like to make a few comments to this effect. We are probably the only ones in this House who are willing to fight organized crime in Austria with all the consequences. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: (in view of the somewhat delayed appeal) Even your own group needs 10 minutes!]] I still remember exactly how we followed the criminal police's instructions and were able to prove that, through a negligent execution of the credit law, Austrian institutions are open to money laundering from different countries of origin. A green initiative then succeeded in closing this gap for organised crime. [[Abg. Young: "For" the crime!]] There are other problems, such as the lack of foreign exchange import declaration obligation, various possibilities to invest dubious money in Austria, the lack of burden of proof in the return to dubious millions and billions of investments and a lack of personnel in all units dealing with economic crime and organised crime, in particular EDOK and economic police. Here's a little criticism of the security report. I never understood that under organized crime, one always understands something exotic: Groups of masked Chechens, hiding and spending in the most strange places in the country and then always hiding near the Naschmarkt. - It may happen. [[Abg. Oillinger: At the South Railway Station!]] The South Railway Station has become much better thanks to a green district initiative. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Fischl.]] But the main culprit – if I can believe the notes of the economic police and also the EDOK – and they are extremely credible – represent quite normal, mostly party-oriented Austrian entrepreneurs, for example, from the construction industry. These are the centres of organised crime, and there is also the greatest damage. Because I was not sure, I allowed myself to ask in a conversation with the leading officials in the Ministry of the Interior: Is the crime that is actually organized, which occurs at the Austrian construction sites and in public tenders? The answer was: Of course! This is the most pronounced and most rooted form of organized crime! Now I ask a single question to the Minister of the Interior: Why is there nothing in the security report about this? Why, if one believes in the security report, is it important to combat the so-called foreign organised crime and to put much less emphasis on the much larger area of domestic organised crime from the total amount of damage? What's going on? So, and that's it. The individual police attacks, the abuse of certain units that have existed, and the strange carnivals in the disguise area will discuss others from our group. I would just like to point out something last, even if we are not going to discuss it in detail today: The new regime in the Ministry of the Interior, where I really have problems with certain police developments, is showing an amazing pace. Legal principles are called into question from the security review to the extended investigation and the protection of the Constitution is offered in part to the idea of a full police overview and police control. [[Abg. Kiss: No, no, no!]] I do not have the impression that the officials are not aware of this development. In many discussions, I have actually seen a lot of sensitivity and awareness of the problem in the Ministry of the Interior. I have the impression that there is absolutely no awareness of the problem – at least at present – where policy-makers are concerned. It is true that the initiatives we are taking in the coming months are initiatives that have already been developed almost literally under the Social Democratic-Conservative Coalition. There is only one difference, and that explains this sudden pace of the introduction of elements of the surveillance state. This is because there was at least partial resistance to parliamentary implementation in the SPÖ club at the time. These are certainly not available in the ÖVP and FPÖ clubs. That is why it will be even more important to the parliamentary opposition to slow down, to clarify and to counteract it as much as possible. Finally, I say a little hope: As social democracy at least at the moment is no longer in the possession of the interior, the railway would be free to allow the successful security policy of the Greens to increase the necessary parliamentary support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19215	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19271	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Some things have to be used to here in the House: not only that some have moved to the right, which used to be on the left, but also as regards the order of the speakers. Mr Partik-Pablé, who has always opened the match, is missing today. The match has opened today one that otherwise was not in the game, namely colleague Pilz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] But some things have also become different from the content. I'm just so surprised, my colleague Pilz: The Greens are now the great advocates of security policy! – Well, at the speaker’s desk it sometimes sounded at least different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] I remember the early days of a Member of the Pilz, in which the police and the Gendarmerie were the "Picking Police" and the "Pushing Army". This harmony with the Greens in terms of security policy has always been absent, but I am glad that it has now become different. That's not a question at all. It is also new that I already have all the press releases of the ÖVP delegates about the speeches they have already given here. Maybe you'll give up the speeches, and we can read everything you want to say here! It's all done, it's all done. It has already changed a lot as far as security policy is concerned. New – and I would like to say this too – was the fact that in the Committee on the Interior, where the safety report was being debated, there was praise from all the political groups for the Minister of the Interior, Karl Schlögl, who was no longer in office; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. Kiss: He was good too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's why you shot him!]] We didn't shoot him! – I just want to say that there are a number of new things to which you have to get used to. [[Abg. Kiss: Who else?]] [[Abg. Kiss: Who didn't let him become a party observer?]] What is not new, however, to this safety report, ladies and gentlemen, is the success contained in this report – for the seventh time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the seventh consecutive time in a row, we are debating a report or we are giving an approval to a report indicating that the intelligence rate is rising and the crime rate is falling. This is a truly great success of the Austrian executive, the officials responsible for security in the country, but also those who have the political responsibility to bear, and that is for this report, for the 1998 security report, the no longer in office Minister of the Interior Karli Schlögl. [[Abg. Murauer: That doesn't mean that anyone is fighting!]] [[Abg. Auer: No one argues!]] Thanks to him, there is such a good, so successful security report! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the ÖVP:But you can't say anything anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't let him become a party observer!]] [[Abg. Murauer: ( towards SPÖ) Leikam! You have to explain that, not to us!]] The officials are also grateful and grateful for their work. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a speech by colleagues Kiss here as a press release: He, who, in fact, was always full of praise for security policy – in which he also cooperated and cooperated, we don't want to argue at all – now thinks he is glad that after 30 years of social-democratic interior ministers finally have an ÖVPler of this office again, because now the population would feel as it goes up in this country. [[Abg. Murauer: That's right!]] No more gendarmerie posts will be closed, more executive will be on the streets, everywhere you will feel: [[Abg. Murauer: That’s right too!]] The ÖVP is back. – Original of a broadcast by parliamentarian Kiss. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] Mr Kiss! I do not know if you saw Mr Küberl on television a few days ago. It is certainly not your opinion that he would be glad that we have an ÖVP minister. He's quite different! But Mr. Küberl is, please, not from our ranks – not with God! – but it comes from a direction that is at least very close to you. What did Mr Küberl mean a few days ago? – He meant that this federal government, this Minister of the Interior, would put our country’s social fabric at risk! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, no,...!]] He has referred to civil service, and he has meant that these gentlemen in the interior do not recognize what they are doing in this Republic! – So no trace of this enthusiasm, which you expressed in your press release today, and then probably will be here for the best. Ladies and gentlemen! However, safety must not, of course, be exclusively a product of the executive, but must be a product of the entire society. We all have our contribution to make, and the Federal Minister will not tire to stress again and again that the Ministry of the Interior is the largest and most sensitive service company in terms of security. Federal Minister! You're right. I'll give you the right, too. Why Act Don't you think you're different? Because that must already be determined: The measures that have now been put forward by this Federal Government in the budget 2000 and which we are still going to have the debate here, do not indicate the direction you always want to play out to the public. [[Abg. Murauer: We will explain this to you, Leikam!]] Your words are not in harmony with the deeds! You talk differently than you do! Mr Federal Minister, what you have presented to us here is going in a different direction, in the wrong direction! For, Mr Federal Minister, in recent years we have always been proud that the budget of the Interior has always increased, thanks to the understanding of the Minister of Finance, I must say. It has always been spared by the savings measures, from the savings packages, which were also to be decided, which were also necessary. You are now the first evp minister – Paul Kiss is so proud of you! – who has managed not to move the Minister of Finance to ensure that the budget of the Interior would have remained at least the same level. It is less than 440 million schilling, and this has a wealth of catastrophic effects that we will still talk about when it comes to making the budget. Federal Minister! I would like to mention the officials with whom I have a great deal of contact: These say to me without interruption that security in the country can no longer be maintained with this staff status and with this budget. The official trade unionists are talking about "social accession" for the Austrian executive through this budget! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! Think again whether the idea of saving is appropriate in the field of security policy! Change your opinion! Make a different security policy so that Austria remains a safe country too! If you do not, then, and I am firmly convinced of this, the 2000 Security Report will no longer have those successes, such as the safety reports of the last seven years.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19528	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19550	Dobar vecer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Good evening! Both the chairman of the Leikam Committee and Peter Pilz have already found: Austria is a safe country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This will also not change the panic of this government or of some politicians of the government parties from the very right margin! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And what about the panic due to the opposition?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! According to international investigations, Vienna is one of the safest cities in the world. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's positive!]] Sometimes when one hears government politicians, one might think that Austria is a country in which one must constantly be afraid and panicked when one goes to the public. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Why is that bothering you?]] Again and again you hear: It is terrible at all, and all possible measures must be taken to prevent the insecurity and danger that exist. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Do you know what the greatest danger in Austria is that a person is exposed to? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The Greens!]] You certainly know, because you were very affected by this at the end of the Easter weekend as the responsible Minister for the resort: It's road traffic! The most damaging and most intensive weapon in Austria is the car, and I say to it: usually the car, directed by men! [[Assured by the honourable Member Mag. Lunacek and Mag. Worm.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The greatest hazard posed by individuals is road transport. All of this is in the safety report, ladies and gentlemen. Study him once! In 1998, 963 people died in road traffic in Austria. There were 963 traffic deaths! That was – you have to say the exactness half the time – the record number since the 1950s. There were as few dead as never before. Last year it was already more, and this year, after more than 40 traffic deaths during the Easter season, this number will certainly be exceeded – in order to predict this, one does not have to be Hellseeherin. Ladies and gentlemen! To this are 159 murders, 15 body injuries with fatal outcome, 22 body injuries with permanent consequences and 179 intentionally severe body injuries. . I only call these figures so that you know what is in such a safety report at all and what a safety concept it is all about. Now I have to mention something that I haven't been doing this for the first time, but I've been taking away the security reports for a few years, namely, how precise, good and successful the Austrian security executive works, because in the crimes and crimes against body and life – that's what interests people most – the investigation rate is 93 and 91.1 percent respectively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's neither ironic nor cynical now, but it's honest when I say: That is the praise of those who work for it. They do not do it about God’s reward, because this is their job – and I expect essentially from every government servant that he is engaged in his profession – but with this Enlightenment rate you can really see yourself internationally. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as it is statistically clear that in Austria it is much more dangerous to move in road traffic than anywhere else, it is also clear that in this discussion about the safety concept, the most important danger to safety in Austria is not organized crime. I don't need to repeat what Peter Pilz said, although I don't want to play down the building cartel here. But the main threat to security in Austria is the risk of social security and the increasing reduction of social security; and what this Federal Government – and you, Federal Minister, are a member of this Federal Government! – in this context, security in this country is indeed at risk! I have found more or less annually on the occasion of the discussion of the security concept in the security report that this is partly based on a false concept. We Greens believe that if we define "inner security", social security is an essential element. That is why, and we promise you, we will act against the planned social reduction by all the means available to us by individual Members and our party, in order not to compromise the individual's sense of security! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is no need for a massive improvement of the security police, but a massive disarmament of the Federal Government's plans in terms of social reduction in order to keep internal security in Austria and not endanger it. Ladies and gentlemen! A very last comment, because, shortly before the anniversary of mine and certainly also the opinion of the Federal Minister, we are faced with the most human rights-related deserters in Austria during the post-war period, namely the removal of a displaced person into death: Federal Minister! It is known that, under your immediate predecessor and even now under your leadership in your department, measures have been launched for human rights-compliant deportation practice, and, as I admit, there has been a noticeable de-escalation in carrying out so-called problem deportations. Federal Minister! However, it is equally clear – and I would remind you now in this context – that there are delays and cutbacks in this area and that measures have not yet been taken. For example – I now mention only one point that will still be discussed tomorrow – it is the fact that there are cuts in civil servants' care or that no contracts have been concluded for the year 2000, although we already have at the end of April. In addition, the desire to allow human rights observers to use charter aircraft during deportations has not yet been met and will continue to exist – I do not doubt – in the future. Federal Minister! In this area, you could truly make a contribution to internal security in Austria, so I do not want to assume that your interest in the security of the population in Austria refers only to the domestic population and not to those inhabitants – and even to those inhabitants in Austria in the short term – who do not have Austrian citizenship. Federal Minister! You still have great tasks ahead! I wish you all the best! You know: We'll measure you by your actions!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19666	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19688	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Before even a speaker of the coalition government could take the floor, the opposition speakers were already aware of what we are going to say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] I admit, Mr Leikam, that the issue was started just before the beginning of this security debate, but it is sometimes ahead of its time! By the way: I intend to say what I have written about here too, and of course I will not forget to praise Karl Schlögl expressly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You could have distributed the text in writing! That would have saved us time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, as you do, I also had my personal happiness at the beginning of this discussion today. However, I would like to appeal to Mr Pilz in a very different way. As far as I remember, it was the Greens who have always fought for the reduction of the road border. I would also like to ask for this for Parliament. Prost, my colleague, fungus, with goose wine, please! [[The speaker lifts the water glass standing on the speaker's coil.]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Mr Leikam! In recent years – and I do not want to stress this explicitly – we have designed a common security policy, which is also the basis of this 1998 security report. It was of course for the ÖVP in the past that it does not make child-bearing decisions – of course, we do not do it today and will not do it in the future. I'd like to say: Karl Schlögl was the minister we supported. However, you from SPÖ did not support Karl Schlögl in your party, because from our point of view he would be the new chairman of the SPÖ. That's not a question. If someone fell in his back, I'll say, We have never been, but you could not enforce him in your own party! Let's stick to the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now it's on the matter again. I don't want to say after 30 years of Social Democratic Interior Minister: I'm glad we've had an ÖVP security minister in Dr. Ernst Strasser's person for three months! I know that there will be more security for Austria with Ernst Strasser – and this is good for this country and its people – because the coalition supports it, and I also know one with the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] In the matter itself, of course, I now mount those things that I have also mounted in the past security reports – Karl Schlögl will remember – each. There are things in the security report that are not all right. Let's just consider: In 1998, 480 000 crimes and crimes were committed; this is a crime per minute, of which we must be aware! According to the safety reports of recent years, eight crimes occur statistically in the 8 minutes of my speaking time. Good for you, Mr. Pilz! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] In view of the safety reports of recent years, I have repeatedly mounted three things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] First – Karl Schlögl will confirm it –: We clearly have too few visible police officers and gendarmen on the streets and squares. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: And too many invisible!]] Prevention in the form of the visible policeman or gendarmen has not taken place in the way we would have liked it. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] At the same time, we know that this can only be achieved if the individual executive officer is removed from the ballast of desk work. We want to do this with Ernst Strasser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, We know – and I am now addressing the SPÖ address – that a number of reforms have taken place in recent years. The reform of the criminal service and the state police did not succeed under Karl Schlögl. I have pointed out stereotype on every speech. But I know: With Ernst Strasser, the reform of the criminal service and the state police will quickly pass through the stage – for the benefit of the executive and for the benefit of the people in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I also say a third thing clearly and clearly: It hurt us – and I know that it hurt socialist colleagues too – that hundreds of Gendarmerie posts in this country had to be closed. They were especially closed at the expense of people's safety in our small communities and in particular in the border regions. Ernst Strasser – a man’s word – has guaranteed that there will be no closure of Gendarmerieposten under his aegide. The ÖVP and the FPÖ are in favour of this! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] How to implement something very quickly is clear and clearly understandable, for example, from the assessment drafts to the Foreign Law. What did not go with the SPÖ is going with the FPÖ. I quite agree with Mr Stoisits' criticism of what happened in the past. However, I also say that ÖVP and FPÖ agree on the need for swift legislation in certain areas, for example in connection with the Foreign Law, when it comes to combating organised tow crime; that this is necessary, the report of organised tow crime in 1999 strongly demonstrates. Because in the Austrian rule of law, it is not the case that towing is still a cavalier crime or an administrative offence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For this we will demand and enforce draconian punishments. It was not possible with you to say it very easily and clearly! [[towards SPÖ]] [[Abg. Leikam: That's not true!]] I'll be the last one. [[Abg. Gaál: This is the police state!]] - No! That's not the police state! Whoever now paints the police state on the wall in this context, he explores the seriousness of the situation! It is inconceivable when, in connection with the organized tow crime and sharper punishments against the mafia organizations, the word "police state" is brought into the mouth! There's no need for any comment, that's self-evident! I come to the conclusion: We from the Austrian People's Party, together with our partner in the Federal Government, the Freedom Party, want our executive officials, whom we thank for their use around the clock, day and night, to be motivated. In order to be motivated, they must feel that the politicians stand with them and with them that politics, at the same time, also sets out legislative measures to strengthen them. We want to give them this motivating boost and achieve that more can be done for security in this country. Because we don't forget: Every minute a crime in Austria, which is still little in international comparison, but still far too much! With our executive under Ernst Strasser as Minister of the Interior, we will create positive things! With Straster we can make it that there is more security in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19859	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19880	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make three brief comments on the safety report. First of all, to the safety concept. My colleague, Mr Térezija Stoisits, has already mentioned this, and I also believe that, of course, there must be a balance between the areas in which a large number of people are really at risk. That is, I think that the safety concept, but not necessarily the competence of the resort, should be extended to those areas in which people feel at risk – in areas where, for example, children are at risk, people feel insecure and women are reluctant to stay. I mean, it also needs a feminist security concept. Federal Minister! If I look at your consulting team, I almost see men. But I think that women should be more involved in the field of safety and a preventive definition of safety! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, for example, as a mother of school-based children, I really can't understand that in an area that is very important to me, namely in the field of safety on the way to school, students should be saved and that they say: The parents are supposed to take over! Federal Minister! De facto that means that mothers will have to do so in very many cases. This means that if you have several children, you have to take them to different places in kindergarten and school. You may be hard to imagine! But I think what is required now is really unreasonable. This is saving in the wrong place, and we reject it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: There's never been any student lotteries in the working districts!]] Deputies! That would be a reason for setting up such services at all the vulnerable intersections, wherever many children go back to school. And that there was no such thing in some places is no reason to stop it everywhere. I think that's the wrong conclusion. Second comment, also on the statements made by my previous speaker, Mr Kiss, in connection with towing, trafficking in human beings and trafficking in women: I think it is important that we actually approach the organizers of such injustices. But this presupposes that one cooperates with the victims. However, we hear again and again about women or women's associations who have also made it their task to help prostitutes and protect them that victims of trafficking in women often cannot even stay domestic until the start of a procedure. The victims were quickly taken away. They have often been put here under false promises. The male perpetrator usually has new – as the cynical name is – "human material" and may receive a small penalty. Otherwise, however, I find little real effort to come to the backmen or organizers of such crimes. There is no willingness to really protect the victims, because at least a temporary residence permit would have to be granted until legal proceedings have been completed, and then one would have to leave parents and children together in all proceedings in the case of refugees or asylum seekers, because the tearing of families is misunderstood and inhuman security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A third and last point, and also on this, honourable Member Kiss has given me a keyword: He complained that there was too little visible police. That's right! I often miss them in road traffic, especially in running or standing traffic. I think all those who try to comply with the standards – for example, speed limits – will have already experienced what is often going on behind their own vehicle. In such cases, I would expect more visible police. But there is another aspect of visibility and invisibility. I mean, it really is not possible for police officers to make use of black straw masks, not identify themselves, and even keep the tight mask on the commissioner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] It is unbearable if even police president Swadl has to say that mistakes have failed when it turns out, for example, that the police are among other things those who were no longer wanted at other services because of excessive brutality, because there are many procedures there because of racist violations. [[Abg. Kiss: These are allegations! Who gave you this information?]] These are not allegations! Three fatal use of firearms in an official: I think that's a very strong piece! All of this will be checked. There is a film documentation to which I would like to invite you. The following is particularly noteworthy: My colleague, Mr Oellinger, and I presented this film at a press conference. Again – hidden – an official was there and photographed the television of the Greens, by the way with high-quality bad results. He then suggested to his senior authority that this material should be ensured in the green club. He didn't say: Can we look at the movie again? Can we have a copy of it? No, no, no, He did not recognize himself, although, of course, the film was immediately and immediately with the investigating court authorities. Rather, something quite different happened: On the basis of an object that could not be recognized in these bad photos photographed by TV, a criminal proceedings against a woman was initiated by saying: It could have been a dangerous object that the woman took out of a prisoner's pocket. – When the court looked at the film, the two were immediately released because the "hazardous object" clearly turned out to be a cigarette! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Smoking is dangerous too!]] Federal Minister! Apart from this really strange process, I ask you: Is this the economical use of public resources? – I say fairness for the sake of this: There would probably not have been this film if at this point there had not been a lot of uniformed police officers, who had no great pleasure with the process of these disguised colleagues visibly to say this carefully. In my opinion, there is a great need for information and action here. I believe that these are absolute minorities within the framework of the executive. But it would be a shame if, for this reason, bad light were to fall on a large majority of law-oriented officials!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19972	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19990	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few words about Mr Leikam's speech, which has already been almost nostalgic, which has given a real voice to socialist security policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] That almost pushed the tears out of my eyes! Unfortunately, Mr Partik-Pablé is ill today, but she lets you and, of course, also greet the former Minister of the Interior, with whom she has fought several struts. Now to the report itself, which unfortunately had little to do with my previous speakers. I would like to begin by saying, in a few words, that I am here in a split function: We will take note of the safety report, but we will not identify with its content, and I will explain it. As Mr Leikam correctly said, we were in this period – and I add: Thank God! – neither responsible nor co-responsible for Austrian domestic policy. This report bears in its effects a clearly socialist manuscript, namely that of the then Minister of the Interior Schlögl. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Mr Leikam and I are of the same opinion, but with other starting points. Although Mr Schlögl was always called and traded as the legal connector in SPÖ, the study of the report cannot help to give the impression that some of the left-wings of the SPÖ have been involved. Therefore, the evaluation of these documents is less about comparing the purely numerical material, but rather about reading between the lines and critically questioning the results and interpretations. That is why there is no point in responding to Mr Leikam's jubilation reports too much. Although the figures have fallen slightly – but they have deteriorated again in the following year – but the offences with violent background, the crimes against body and life, the morality and in the area of organized crime, that is, the really dangerous offences, have not gone down. Similarly, specific offences – I would almost call them "balkan-delicts" – have not become less. For example, the use of knives in the field of violent crime can now be read almost daily in the newspapers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] You just need to look into it, Mrs. Colleague! There was something in the paper yesterday and yesterday. The knife is a specific instrument that is much more used. It is not always about murder and death, but unfortunately this instrument is often used in the fight, and there are more than enough injuries and unfortunately also deaths in us. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Mrs. Colleague! It is important to intervene here. In this regard, the Minister of the Interior has to show in the future that we are not willing to tolerate this! And if anyone in our company is committed to violence to this extent and he is not an Austrian – the Austrian belongs in such a case to the judge – then he has not lost anything in our country, Mrs. Colleague, even if you are still so strong for him! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Racism has not lost anything in this country either!]] Another problem is the problem of Islamic extremism, which is increasingly affecting Europe and thus also our federal territory, as is explicitly mentioned in the report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Mrs. Colleague! Before you get upset again: It's not mine, it's in the report. In Austria, about 300,000 Muslims are currently living, who, as the report says, are increasingly influenced by religious groups through flyers, videos, and aggressive sermons. Preferred places for this are mosques, bethouses and club halls Islamic clubs. With these groups – I can tell you that from my own district – there are more than major problems. They have been granted very generous operating permits which do not receive comparable Austrian establishments, which provide the same services as restoration plants. Radicalisation is not only to be seen in this area, but also – and now I look in the right direction when I look at the greens – in the area of political crime and in the area of political crime. Now, just as it is in the safety report, I am talking about the formulations that happen there. Because look at what has happened in recent months in Austria as part of the alleged resistance demonstrations, which climate has arisen, how much damage, destruction, even violence, has been caused, and unfortunately – you have to say that too – has been covered over and over again! [[Abg. Oellinger: (a high-level magazine) Look at this!]] Unfortunately, political extremism in Austria is on the increase, and it is increasingly impoverished. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Ku-Klux-Klan!]] Look at the "Kronen Zeitung": Chaoten-Krawalle. May be feared. Yeah, where does that come from? – This is the environment you keep keeping the bar repeatedly, which you support and whose interests you represent here from this pult. We will not tolerate this in this form! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Or, in the direction Socialist Party: To throw objects, bottles, and so on on to officials, for example, my party, says the chief of the Young SPÖ, Robert Pichler, against can throw on FPÖ politicians, he is of course, because he is for garbage separation. – He has received the title of the "Dolm of the Week" today from a not exactly right hand, the "Falter", and he has rightly deserved it. Ladies and gentlemen! You can create this climate with your words, partly here from this pult. [[Abg. Oillinger: And your words?]] But this is all the more precisely seen in a supposed right-wing extremist area, although the report has to admit that there is almost no organized right-wing extremism in Austria. [[Abg. Oils: What's the claim?]] The report speaks of backwardness – minus 12 percent – and expressly states that no signs of an international merger or militarization of this scene can be identified at the moment. But the reporting pages have to be filled – apparently a requirement from the left. Therefore, every single crime is counted; I think it was ten, or like many, crimes. These include the intrusion and spraying of hook crosses in three cases, as well as three anonymous threat letters. One of them came from a 15-year-old student whose girlfriend had previously been shot by Turkish boys with an air pressure gun, and one was the result of an internal bassena fight among householders. This will be a report – a safety report! – the Republic accepted! I do not think that there is another state in Europe that did so in a similar way. It is quite ridiculous to mention that in a security report that is about threats to the Republic. But we are building here a real populace, which in this form God is not to exist in Austria, which has the lowest rate at all in the European Union in this sector. [[Abg. Oillinger: What about the ads according to ban law? Say something to the ads according to the Prohibition Law! Is that up?]] However, you need something to build here a figure that is actually not existent, so that you can send and mobilize your people on the street, so that it can then be done as in the party home of the 22. District comes where disks are thrown in, where a damage of 180,000 s is caused and where hook crosses are lurked on the wall. I hope that this process will not possibly still be pushed into the shoes on the right. It would fit in with this methodology. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What?]] However, it seems to me, above all, that without concrete and verifiable persons and groups of persons, they are quoted here, just because they represent an opinion different from the world's left. A conservative or a right view of the world is almost a crime in your mind, even if its representatives cannot be accused of any relation to National Socialism. One consciously gives the impression that everything that is to be classified left-liberal or left-wing would be almost indecent and would actually be better prohibited. [[Abg. Oil: Who? Now you've promised!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Without further explanation – this is what this report says – there is an increase in revisionism, ladies and gentlemen, and it is addressed to non-nearer advance organisations whose effect is complained of. Now I have asked the Federal Minister what the revisionism is all about. He told me that there are relevant court rulings going there. As a result – Mr Schlögl nodds; I would like to finish because it is very significant – I have looked into what is to be understood by "revisionism". Goldmann Lexikon, Bertelsmann 1998, "Revisionismus" [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Check "racism"!]] From about 1890 onwards, the reformeric direction in the workers' movement called for a revision of Marxist theories. Revisionism rejects revolutionary goals and puts its hope for reform opportunities within – 1998! – the capitalist system to improve the situation of the proletariat. [[Abg. Oillinger: What year do you have the lexicon from?]] If, therefore, a judge falls under these conditions, that is very worrying. This could at most be a judge, as Mr Jarolim, together with Mr Fuhrmann, asked him to do in the minutes. A very, very obscene statement here! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is the young show!]] This is one of the most worrying points in this area. They're trying to suspect people without calling names without more precise mention and without being able to prove anything to them. You also want to kill your opponents. I'll tell you one thing: You will certainly not succeed in this form! That is why I would also like to ask the Minister of the Interior: If he has such a report in the future, I expect him to be called Ross and Reiter, that names and specific offences are called, but that there are no more vague suspicions in it, as Minister Schlögl – whether it be a small addition to his left wing, or whether it is his own decision – has been listed here. [[Abg. Oillinger: What does your authority do...?]] We expect a specific security report to be presented by the offender where he can call it, but by the way – even if you are still so excited, colleague... – I know why you are upset. [[Abg. Oillinger: Makes your authority...?]] Because now different things in your environment may be investigated because different things will fly up because perhaps the famous bomb story of Ebergassing would be to be investigated again, and different others! Maybe some known name will appear. I understand you're nervous. But you need to realize and understand that the times when reports were written only after left-wing world view are over. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20264	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20326	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that the value and world openness of colleague Jung is fascinating. I was shocked by my attitude, because I was caught listening to and seeing Mrs Partik-Pablé instead of this machine gun-like speech. So that was a relatively bad thing. To discuss the 1998 safety report is a bit problematic, because that is really snow from yesterday. The fact is, however, that one has to look at what is behind it and what was the case in 1998. What has been done well, what could be improved, and what effect does this have on the following time? It has already been mentioned the high level of information we had in 1998. This high level of intelligence is certainly due to the fact that we had very good officials we still have, a relatively high level of staff, as the Minister of the Interior repeatedly demanded – he has also managed to get approval from the Minister of Finance for this – and clearly also that politics has been made with far-sighted views at this time. The essential thing – I have to correct Mr Jung’s colleagues – and the The key is not the manuscript in the sense of writing – whether it is written or not – but the manuscript in the form of politics behind this security report. This was a very good one, and for this we all have absolutely thanks to the then Minister Schlögl. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to come to a few sub-areas. Thankfully, a previous speaker has already dealt with the field of transport policy measures. We should also note that the 1998 report states that 33 percent of the fatal traffic accidents in the 18- to 26-year-old group are attributable. In my opinion, if we assume that these young people are at risk to a very high level in road transport, we must also consider why the whole thing is happening. In other words, we can not only talk about whether more gendarmen and police should be on the street, it is not only about whether more reviews are being carried out, but we have much more to do. I think we are committed to thinking about how we can improve traffic education and how we manage to destabilize the car and speed by means of political steps. I think it is a very essential point, which is also much easier to question, to what extent the rules that exist are meaningful and necessary, because we know one thing: Speed limits are primarily not met if acceptance is not given. I therefore believe that it is essential for the future to take all the measures and steps that can be taken immediately and that can be done in a shorter or medium term. These include, in all cases, the adequate level of status of employees. When we hear what the new government is up to, we can only be surprised by the reduction in staff levels. If we hear that the effort is being reduced and that the good equipment of officials is at risk, all of us have to be concerned. A very essential point, which is also very busy with me and which is not directly part of the security report, but – Mr Petrovic has rightly mentioned this – is a part of security, namely social security, is the situation of civil servants. By planning to dramatically reduce the number of civilian servants, Mr Minister, you are taking a conscious step towards endangering the social institutions in Austria. [[Abg. Murauer: For conservation, not for reduction!]] I can only hope that alone the jubilation of the Paul Kiss – happy to have an ÖVP minister – are not the decisive factor in party-political motivation. The essential thing for Austria – even if it is an EIA minister – has to be that social institutions are guaranteed with civil servants and security as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20366	The next speaker is Mr Platter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20388	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are discussing the 1998 Security Report – a security report for which Karl Schlögl, then Minister of the Interior, was undoubtedly responsible – I would like to begin by expressing my thanks for the good cooperation – it was a pleasant time – and also my thanks to the then Minister of the Interior Karl Schlögl for the commitment to the security of our country. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and the Free Trade Unions.]] However, I would ask you to understand this, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, that, of course, I am very pleased that after 30 years of socialist interior ministers, we now have a very competent, prudent, committed, even in difficult situations quiet and relaxed ÖVP ministers, who are in charge of the interior resort: Dr. Ernst Strasser. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fortunately, legal framework conditions are now possible, which were not previously possible. I am thinking here of the extended research of the danger, which will undoubtedly bring more security to our country. It was not the fault of Minister Karl Schlögl – I would like to say that clearly; it was no doubt on the left foot of the heavy Klotz – that the necessary steps in the field of internal policy could not be taken. I therefore welcome the development in the area of the interior sector, which will bring with it that the executive will have new opportunities to combat crime and prevent crime, that more security will be achieved for the citizens of our country, and that law and order in particular will have a clear priority in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now some comments on the security of our country: The threat images in Europe have changed enormously. I here call migration, prosperity, border disputes, terrorism, international crime and drug trafficking, but I am also thinking of illegal border crossings in connection with tow crime and tow crime. I'd like to deal with that now. The number of attacks on illegal border crossings increased dramatically from 1998 to 1999. In 1998, there were 15,796 illegal border crossings, which were traded in law, plus 117 percent to 42,812 illegal border crossings in 1999. We have the biggest problem in the area of illegal border crossings in Tyrol. I remember saying a few years ago during the Schengen debate: Tyrol is open like a barn gate because it is not easy for Italy to control the "blue" Schengen external border. – Unfortunately, this has happened to God. The trend in Tyrol has also been worrying in the last three months of 2000. Here's a comparison: Comparing the first three months – January, February and March – of the years 1998, 1999 and 2000 can be seen as follows: In the first three months of 1998, we had 138 attacks of illegals in Tyrol, in January, February and March 1999, there were 599, and now, in January, February and March 2000, there are 1,274 illegals seized. Ladies and gentlemen, these are facts! Dear Toni, I take this matter very seriously as a Tyrolean and as an Austrian of course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that... [[Abg. Leikam: How many gendarmen?]] I'm gonna borrow a caperel so you can deal with these things yourself as SPÖ's security spokesperson. I believe that these things must be given a special priority, and I am very grateful to you, Mr Minister, for having already recognised this problem in the first days of your activity as Minister of the Interior. As far as I'm aware, you're on 25. ==References====External links== He was not always particularly fond of us, but you were with him and discussed this problem with him. There is an urgent need for international cooperation. If I hear that common, mixed stripes are to be made, I have to say: That's a good approach. [[Abg. Leikam: Something new!]] Secondly, I am grateful to you for expressing the need to increase the level of punishment in the field of tow crime. It cannot be said that in Germany much higher penalties for organized tow and tow crime are imposed than with us. There is no doubt that there is a need for harmonisation and an increase in the penalties for tow crime. I would like to thank you very much, Minister, for these accents. I am seeking to continue to give tow crime a special priority, and I would like to say: With Ernst Strasser, there will also be a lot in the area of tow crime in Tyrol that clear accents will be set here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20468	The next speaker is Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20490	Mr President. Estimated Minister! The safety report for the year 1998 will not be discussed until the end of April 2000 and therefore unfortunately God's very late here in plenary. Such reports can be read over and over again, for example, about where organized crime develops. My previous speaker has already addressed, especially for the area of Tyrol, a branch of organised crime, in which constantly increasing numbers are recognizable. This is the movement of people across borders, of illegals, who in their homeland are often deprived of all their wealth under the guise of false facts and are transferred here by tractor organizations to the supposedly golden West. This is where crime is actually carried on, with black-and-collar work being probably the least evil. The following figures are given in this safety report: 19 693 illegals and an increase of 49.3 percent. Today we know that this will be much worse in the safety report for the following year. It is clear from this that the legislator should have acted for a long time. The current penalties for tractors are not appropriate. There are three forms of crime, two in the Foreign Law and one in the Criminal Code. In this safety report, it could not be carried out how many tractors have committed an administrative breach and how many have been held responsible in accordance with the Criminal Code; that was not possible. One has, in fact, ruined this, for towing is a completely false view of things. Each tow belongs to a proper court with a corresponding risk of punishment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also evident that it is always tried to act only with the number of five who are tossed, because then one falls into the criminal record of the infraction. There is also a shift where it is obviously easier to cross the border. We have the German army assistance to Hungary – that is, in Burgenland – which has proved its worth. On the other hand, we in Lower Austria north of March unfortunately have no German army assistance. If you look at the report for 1999, you can see that, for example, in the Czech Republic, there is an increase of 86 percent. As far as Slovakia is concerned, there is even an increase of 153 percent. However, there is a 15 percent reduction compared to Hungary. That is, the tractor organizations are precisely instructed about where it is obviously easier to cross the border. Minister of the Interior! They are therefore on a completely right path if it is soon also in Lower Austria for the use of German army members. There will now be a working group on this subject. Organized crime is also always to be found in the area of addiction smuggling. Secured quantities resulting from the report are 1 553 kilograms of cannabis, cannabis resin, heroin and cocaine. Almost a third of this, namely 478,66 kilograms, was able to ensure customs administration. It is similar in tablets. Of the 117 171 tablets secured in total, almost a quarter of the security cover is the customs administration. Minister of the Interior! In this context, I should like to ask you to consider whether it should continue to be possible for customs administration to have limited access to the Schengen Information System and also to the ECIS. According to Schengen agreements, there are clear rules in my view; in three areas, in three articles the customs administration is called. Only in national implementation, in the Federal Ministry of the Interior's search and information regulations, has this not been achieved. The background to this is probably the planned forced transfer of over 2,000 customs guards to the Ministry of the Interior. Minister! I would be very pleased if you would also make it clear that these socialist plans are once and for all from the table. They would thus clearly signal the more than 2,000 officials in the financial sector that it is worth reaching out for the most motivated approach. I think that there are therefore very great successes, especially in the fight against organised crime. To conclude: The above figures on criminal proceedings – almost 480 000 – suggest how many official acts are carried out by the Austrian executive year after year. This means that twenty million official acts are often carried out under the most difficult conditions, involving seizures, interferences in property rights or withdrawals from freedom. I am in this position, on behalf of the Liberals, to express my highest thanks and appreciation to all executive officials, the federal army members and all other civil servants working in any area in the interests of the security of the Republic. Even if a political party is constantly trying to publish the concept of the "punishment police" and to make representations again and again, as if there were a "punishment police" in Austria, one knows: The opposite is the case! All of this is false, there are highly motivated officials who have not deserved this title with God. If you remember the demonstrations in February, you will find that the opposite is the case. Unfortunately, there were more than fifty injured police officers back then. I should like once again to ask the Minister of the Interior to involve other forms of organisation in the interests of the security of the Republic of Austria in other departments. This does not cost taxpayers any more schilling and will certainly result in an even higher level of security. Minister, take Please take these suggestions along the way! I hope you can actually put this into bale.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20560	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20581	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present facts and figures of the 1998 Security Report confirm, as in previous years, a continuous crime decline while at the same time increasing the awareness-raising rate. I am particularly pleased, Mr President of Vienna, to see in Vienna a fall in the number of crimes and crimes, which is not the case throughout the federal territory. We have already heard today that there is hardly a country and hardly a city in Europe or in the rest of the world, which has a similar positive security balance. Ladies and gentlemen, this is proof to me that security policy among SPÖ ministers has created the right political framework in the past, as well as ensuring the high quality of life and the necessary subjective sense of security for citizens. But of course this is also an important merit for the employees of the safety executive. They did and did excellent work for which to thank. This safety report, this positive security record, is approved by us, Mr Federal Minister, and this also applies to the field of civil protection. I want to join you... [[Abg. May. Kukacka is speaking to Federal Minister Dr. Strasser, who is sitting on the government bank.]] – If it were possible to talk to Mr Kukacka, another time with the Minister! Federal Minister! I would like to thank you for the very constructive discussion on civil protection, and also for your willingness to support and to take an active part in what I believe will be the biggest safety project in the future, namely the Children's Safety Olympics, with which we want to address thousands of children and young people. You have said that you are willing to support this project and to take over the protection of honor for it. In this way we want to address young people and children at the regional, national and federal levels and in a very sporty and playful way with the subject of security. We want to inform them that it is worth talking about civil protection in the sense of comprehensive protection of the population. We want to prepare them for crisis situations so that they can survive without harm as far as possible. It is also about the fact that in the isolation phase – that is, from the entry of the negative event to the effectiveness of the organized aid – they are not panicked, but are thoughtful to overcome the situation without damage. You have been willing to give your consent that we are preparing, training and informing young people. This applies to the security Olympics, but also to the self-protection information centres. I therefore expect you to help us to get the necessary financial resources provided and to act as a civil protection association within the meaning of an extended arm of the Ministry of the Interior, in the sense of security and in the sense of civil protection, as comprehensive protection of the population. Federal Minister! However, I am concerned about the future way of security policy in Austria, which is of particular importance in the field of security executives, which has already been repeatedly discussed today. If we want to continue this successful work here – and I believe we want to do so too – we need, of course, further human and technical investment. This means that it is necessary to increase the security executive personnel so that we can also benefit, as well as in the field of expenditure, and I would also like to speak here of further urgent modernisation in the computer sector. Minister Schlögl, but also the security spokesman of the ÖVP, Mr Kiss, pointed out that we need more executives on the street, that it is necessary to have more staff on the street. But the opposite, Minister of State, is the case: The human resources and material resources are being eroded! I don't think you can continue on this path. We are miles away from the goals. This unsustainable situation, Mr. Federal Minister, these violent redundancies of personnel, which are to take place here – these mean savings of 1,000 planning posts in the area of Vienna in the next four years! – you can't agree with them. This has a negative impact on maintaining public peace, order and security. Federal Minister! I can only ask you to include our suggestions, our proposals, our legitimate demands in your security policy considerations so that we can continue to be a safe country where people – throughout Austria and also in Vienna – feel comfortable and secure!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20651	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20672	Mr President. Minister! High house! I can identify with a lot of what my previous speaker said. It is true that we have a safety report, which is very pleasing, which identifies Austria as a safe country and shows that Vienna is one of the safest major cities in the world. This means that our executive did excellent and tangible work in 1998. I would like to thank all my colleagues for this. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Herbert L. Graf.]] If we take a closer look at the security report, we note that on the one hand we have a very high education rate, especially in the field of criminal statistics. Of course, it is also evident that there is a decline in crime, but not in all areas. The outcome of the safety report, which I also admit, shows that the safety officers have so far been on the right track. I would also like to explain from this point of view the intention that this route will continue with Minister of the Interior Strasser. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the other hand, this safety report also shows the future priorities. One of these priority areas in security policy must be the fight against organised crime, in general and in particular with regard to the movement of alienated vehicles, organised property crime, tow crime at our borders, especially at the eastern border. A special horse of mine is the subject of addiction crime because it seems urgent to me to counteract this dangerous development. I would just like to point out that the drug and addiction sector is a huge economic factor in the world and, according to estimates, acts with revenues of around $500 billion. This also shows that the drug mafia is not afraid of efforts and costs to open up new markets and bring even more people into their dependence. The ghastly thing about this whole matter is that there are more and more young people coming into the catches of the drug mafia. As a result, it can also be seen that the first consumers are getting younger and younger. Statistics also show a sharp increase in the number of primary consumers. I therefore see it as an urgent need to equip the in-depth executives in a technical and human way so that we can face this dangerous social policy development in a massive way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, I would like to make it clear here because the previous speakers have explained that we must be afraid that in the next few days so much staff will be saved, and I have already mentioned this in the Committee: It has never been saved as much as under the former Minister of the Interior One. There are no officials in Lower Austria at the General Army and in the Transport Department. This figure refers to the level of 1. ==References== This shows that Minister of the Interior, Strasser, has already taken over a heavy heritage. I would like to take one aspect out of these statistics and look at it critically, in the area of addiction crime, and I would like to point this out to you on the basis of an example: If a drug dealer is arrested and 50 drug sales are shown to him, but in ten or 20 people it is not detectable when and where, and the person is detectable, this is considered to be a factor. This is, and in itself, a beautification of statistics. I believe that we should face this in the future because it is important that there is really an accurate statistics in the area of drugs, and because accurate statistics should ensure the basis for future work in the field of drugs.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20741	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. Voluntary time limit: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20763	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You should actually be "empty house!" That's right. I suppose opposition work is a meager bread. – Yes, but I have something to say to you, and that’s why I’m upset now; but the Minister of the Interior A.D. – he’s for me the representative of the things I want to tell you now – is still there. [[Call the SPÖ: You too!]] [[Abg. Leikam: (to the present representatives of the Freeman Wise) One, two, three,... – all empty!]] – I know it is Austria’s game against Croatia, in the cafeteria it’s going to be colorful, and, as I have said, opposition work is, of course, a meager bread. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] But I would now like to come to the 1998 Security Report – and then perhaps I will address your comments too –: The 1998 Security Report provides a wealth of figures out of which some can be read. However, it does not help at all, ladies and gentlemen, to rejoice now and to promise that according to statistics, criminal acts have declined in 1998, while at the same time a very important effect has not occurred, namely increasing the subjective sense of security of the population. This has not improved, but it has worsened quite the contrary! There are some key data for this – please listen! – for example, those dealing with the crime of robbery: [[Mr Jarolim, Mr Silhavy and Mr Mag. Worm]] This is the impairment of physical integrity, but it is also the loss of property. This is one of the classic cases where the subjective sense of security of the population is considered an indicator. In 1998, please, 1 835 of these robberys took place – five in every day! This is an increase of 12 percent! In particular, young people, and above all – and this should give us some thought – elderly people and women are those groups that are most at risk of becoming victims of robbery. [[Abg. May. Worm: Not just there!]] One more thing has to be said, and that is what the Greens – in the meantime only one is there, no, two are from the Greens, our favorite opposition party – namely that the foreign crime is rising strongly. [[Abg. Brosz: What is it?]] I know, this is going to start immediately – I know, I know. In the case of the crimes, the share of foreign suspects is at least 30.7 percent, and in the case of robbery, the number of foreign crime rose by 48 percent in 1998. Ladies and gentlemen! If I speak here of the subjective sense of security, then I am currently referring to the outpourings at the recent demonstrations. This is the chapter that ladies and gentlemen should listen carefully to representatives of the Social Democrats. There is a fear of violence. Who were those paroles? - "Resistance! Resistance! Haider, bowl on the wall!" - Do you know that? The occupation of the ÖVP headquarters, the occupation of the Social Ministry: criminal acts! ==References== February, at the supposedly so peaceful great demonstration: Professional demonstrators from Germany and Holland with batons, shoes with steel plates and so on and so on. As a result, 200 property damage, 500 damaged equipment items, and above all, ladies and gentlemen – some of you have marched along – were 53 injured officials! - That's supposed to be peaceful? That's supposed to be a peaceful demonstration? Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It is irresponsible to march there, even if you wear your candles in your hand, if at the same time such incidents happen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You do not have to say at all that you did not know anything about it now, because the article "Die Nerneschlacht" just explained to you "Kerzerlmarschier" a few days before the Great Demonstration that from Germany, the Benelux countries and from England, according to preliminary and alarming findings, more than 1,000 professional demonstrators would travel to Vienna. You knew that, and you're still marching! You get the next problem at the 1st May celebration, and I tell you – also here the "Kronen Zeitung" has already reported – that violent left-wing extremity – you are the Social Democratic! – will be marching again. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Tell your colleagues!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Tell your colleagues!]] I'm warning you: It would be a great democratic mistake to believe that under the guise of a peaceful demonstration, you can let left-extreme and anarchists march with you in Reih and allied! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You don't need to warn us!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] That won't be the case!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20937	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20967	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I don't know what the previous speaker wanted to do with his contribution. Did he want to restrict the right of assembly and demonstration that we have had since the last century – it was introduced a little after 1848 in Austria –? [[Call at the SPÖ – towards ÖVP –:A disaster! And with such a thing you have entered a coalition!]] – Here I praise the moderate and sensible words of the present Minister of the Interior, who called for moderation in this context. Thank God you have nothing to say here! [[towards the freedom of movement]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now to the safety report. I noticed three things in the safety report: Firstly, the number of crimes has fallen, second, the investigation rate has increased, and thirdly, the crime is male. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Young.]] Crime is a male phenomenon! I will now show you that with figures and facts, and that is the truth and nothing but the truth – I emphasize this because Mr. Khol is sitting there –: The total number of criminal offences committed does not at all break down as could be accepted on the basis of gender distribution. 52% of Austrians are women, 48% are men. But what does this look like in criminal statistics? – Listen to: 79 percent of criminal offences are committed by male perpetrators, 21 percent of criminal offences are committed by women. Don't you wonder a little? [[Call to the ÖVP:And what is the conclusion?]] Let's take a closer look at that! Let's see how the crime is divided! You know, in crime there is also the robbery; there is a criminal threat of more than three years. The crimes give rise to an even more dramatic picture for the male sex: 87 percent of perpetrators are male, 13 percent of perpetrators are female. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] – That is not to laugh at the fact that violence is so malely dominated, I would like to tell you, Mr Schwarzenberger! [[Abg. Silhavy: That's terrifying!]] Let's take a look at what this is like in the crime of violence in the family! There's 90 percent of the perpetrators male. – Is that not what you think? Shouldn't you be on Is that not how your family members act and say? Or would it not be necessary – because you always say that women's policy is a cross-sectional matter – to consider Mrs. Sickl and Mr. Strasser, who are responsible for women's affairs, how can we degenerate this aggressive potential, which is now a matter of particular concern to one's sex? [[Abg. Kiss: Who was... Interior Minister?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Again: Violence in the family is a crime committed by men above all. In the area of its fight, there is an example that I would also like to give as an example of the anti-violence law which was introduced in Austria in 1997 and which is a good law that would like to call women, families, and in which there is something special for the perpetrator's work – that is not funny at all, but very effective –: Here the male perpetrators are ordered to have so-called social training – those who make it voluntary. These violent men undergo therapy, and the success is that no murder has happened in Duluth, Minnesota, for 15 years. If that's not something you should think about and whose imitation you might think about, then I don't know what else to think about. Now I am also coming – the subject has already been mentioned today – to the victims of road transport. There is a sad, tragic current occasion, because on this Easter weekend very many dead people were to complain about on our streets. Here again – I am almost sorry that I have to say it again – the same picture again: Not "Women at the tax – monsters", the numbers say something else. The negligent physical injury in road transport is caused to 73 percent of men, to 27 percent of women who die in road traffic to 81.7% of men, to 18.3 percent of women. In the area of risking physical safety – so this is about the so-called shavers – the contaminants are almost 90 percent men. – Something has to be done here, here imagination is necessary to minimize this aggression potential! It has also been mentioned here about the education of transport: Yes, transport education and again transport education and other measures more! A brief comment, because it is also very important to me: One could almost be pleased that a crime group has gone down by almost 17 percent, and that is the previous crime of sexual abuse of unmistakables. There are 150 cases less. But that's something to think about, because in the two years before, more ads have been made at the executive. This is a circle of perpetrators, which can be found above all in the families and in the closer circle of acquaintances, and here has helped to raise awareness of a large-scale campaign of the last or last German government. I think the way of the former Minister of the Interior was a real one. On the basis of these figures, he did not automatically say: Well, there have been fewer crimes!, but he has commissioned psychologist Professor Max Friedrich to conduct a study to explain this phenomenon, so that not the weakest in our society is given any help. In this sense: There would be a lot to say, and I also have some questions to ask you. However, we will certainly be able to do so over the next few months in the context of advanced risk research in the Security Police Act, the regulation you have adopted, and all these measures to be implemented here in the rapid procedure. We will certainly have the opportunity to continue to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21071	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21093	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The 1998 Security Report is a comprehensive and objective reflection of the internal security of Austria. The facts collected are the basis and basis for the current and future Austrian security policy. These are 380 pages of balled information and overviews. Unfortunately, there is still an average level of overall crime in Austria, although the number of crimes is decreasing and the investigation rate is increasing. However, I do not want to say: Security policy, as it was responsible for the SPÖ-ÖVP coalition in recent years, was not a bad policy. It is also the security policy, ladies and gentlemen, that should not be allowed to know party boundaries. It's too much at stake to be allowed to do party politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My ÖVP collegiates Paul Kissund Günther Platter have been deeply concerned with the tow-unsus. The ÖVP is a very special concern that we are more and more fighting this tow. Mr Platter mentioned in his speech the figures from 1998 and 1999 and on the basis of these figures it was found that there was a huge increase in tow activity. It will be the main thrust of the ÖVP's side that will be countered more strongly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It can't be that tugs prefer to drag the refugees to Austria rather than to Germany, because the legal situation is clearly cheaper for them because there are fewer penalties to be expected here. There must simply be harmonisation in Europe with regard to the legal situation and the legislative proposals. I support the efforts of our esteemed Minister of the Interior, Strasser, who has already agreed in Europe and in particular with the Bavarian Minister of the Interior that harmonisation should be sought here. I am of the opinion that, through Minister of the Interior, Strasser, security in this area will become much better than it has been in the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] International cooperation will simply be necessary in order to stop towing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, there is not yet a satisfactory solution in all the federal states as regards the accommodation of displaced persons. Here too, there is still a great need for action. This problem has to be solved! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a member of the Upper Austrian border area, I would particularly like to point out the MÜG, the Mobile Monitoring Group, which is always very successful in the context of the veiling, and I would like to thank her very much. Many customs offences, in particular by third-country citizens, can be detected in this way, especially in cases of intoxication and cigarette smuggling. Here really nice successes can be recorded. A warm thanks also in this direction! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am particularly grateful to all executives for their commitment, and I have full respect for their efforts and also for their success, for they are doing this for the benefit of our citizens. I would also particularly like to mention those organisations and bodies that are committed to the citizens of our country within the framework of voluntary civil protection. Thank you so much! I am thinking in particular of the firearms and similar facilities that we have in our country and which we particularly appreciate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21180	The next speaker was Mr Reindl. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21201	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Schwemlein of the Social Democrats said that this safety report was snowy yesterday in 1998. I'm almost right about that. I do not dispute that the high education rate is partly true. However, this safety report deserves to be considered a little closer. It is clear from him that the number of foreign suspects has once again increased enormously. This is evident in the criminal acts against body and life as well as in the crimes against foreign property, where it is shown that there is a particularly high proportion of Slovak, Polish, Romanian and Hungarian suspects. There are even cases where up to 100 percent of foreigners are practised: This is the robbery in jewelry and watch shops. I know there's only six crimes in total, but you have to mention them anyway. But let us, ladies and gentlemen, compare this safety report not only from one year to the next, but let us pass a longer period of review: In just ten years, from 1988 to 1998, the proportion of foreign suspects doubled. Almost doubled the share of crimes, which is more than 30 percent. An example: Although some 15,000 strangers were still suspicious in 1987, according to the 1998 security report, it was already rising to the 40,000 suspects. This, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed a social-democratic foreign policy! What is especially dear to me is the subject of crimes in our youth. In the area of crimes under the Addiction Act, there were 16 624 persons displayed in 1998, and, I would ask, also the security report, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not suck out of my fingers – the organized drug smuggling is dominated by foreign criminal groups: In the case of imports of cocaine, nationals of the countries of origin and black African groups of perpetrators dominate; the illegal import and distribution of heroin in Austria mainly operate groups of nationals from Turkey and from ex-Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, in the context of drug crime, the name of an organization, an NGO that has acquired great merits throughout the humanitarian field, is also always emerging, namely the name "Caritas". I can therefore get out of the "standard" of 22. Quote in March: "Caritas criticizes Minister of the Interior." With Minister of the Interior Dr. Ernst Strassergäbe there are conversations over and over again, and, according to Caritas President Michael Landau, this conversation "was a more". Landau can no longer win much of the round table on the topic of integration, which came to the Ministry of the Interior on Monday. He fears that these meetings will be held on ‘employment therapy’. Interior Minister Ernst Strasser is obviously ‘very busy by the coalition partner’, believes the Caritas President." I allow myself to quote some newspaper articles in this context. ==References====External links== On 1 March 1997, in connection with a drug raid of the Vienna police in the subway and in the city park, two suspected drug dealers were quantified in a caritas home. ==References== In August 1999, the "Kurier" reported on Styrian Streetworker, who had been arrested as a drug dealer and employed in Caritas. – The list of such newspaper reports could be continued for a very long time. I just want to say: When receiving foreigners as asylum seekers, the Caritas would be well advised to be a little more critical in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! From this point of view, I would like to thank all the forces of the Gendarmerie, the police, the Federal Army and also the customs guard for their excellent work! All the guards have done really great things under often difficult circumstances. High house! In recent years, under a Social Democratic Minister of the Interior, I have not said that I mean Mr Schlögl – some 190 Gendarmerie Posts have been grouped together, although everyone knew that there is an increased need for security in the population. High house! The social-democratic era has ended, and post-death has also ceased. It was high time for that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The new Federal Government will ensure that our home country Austria will continue to be a safe country in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21270	The next speaker was Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21291	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make a small organisational criticism of this debate on the safety report. Mr President. Perhaps it would be possible to make sure that in the future, if a minister has a lot of officials from his place, these gentlemen – they are just gentlemen – will also get a seat. As far as one is concerned, everyone has now managed to get a seat, but perhaps the Minister permits officials to take a seat on the left side of this house, with the exception. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Because it is really not reasonable that these rulers have two and a half hours to stand in the right corner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Westenthaler has the best seat in the stadium!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to the discussion: I would have expected my previous speaker to apologize for his colleague Mainoni's comments, because what this colleague has done here with the denunciation of the "Church Carriers" and tens of thousands of peaceful demonstrators is really a strong piece! We must not allow such denunciations and discussions to break into this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Mainoni of the Freemans complained that this was not the High House, but the "Empty House". I can tell him, if he happens to look for his clubman Westenthaler, where he is: He's in the football stadium at the country match! [[Abg. Fischl: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I just saw him on TV, dear friend!]] [[Abg. Auer: What is it like?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to deal with a part of the security report. On the basis of this safety report, the Austrian executive can be given a very good witness. This has already been confirmed by some previous speakers. I would just like to focus on one more area, namely the fight against addiction crime. In this area, the dealers consciously also take into account the physical-soulish decay and death of fellow citizens. This is why addiction crime is so dangerous because the addicts often become criminal themselves in order to finance their addiction. Many burglaries go to their account. They often start dealing themselves to finance their drug use. They're also seducing others to addiction. This creates a no longer controllable spiral of addiction and crime, in which in reality various mafia organizations deserve a fortune. The safety report shows that there were 162 drug deaths in 1998 alone. This number should be thought! The report does not address the suspected number of addicts. However, if you think that more than 16 600 people were displayed in 1998 for infringement of the Drugs Act, you can imagine about how large the Dark Numbers or the number of persons concerned really are. It is gratifying that in 1998 the amount of drugs secured could be increased, so the officials did good work again in this area. There is a special increase in the security of Ecstasy tablets from 23 000 to more than 100 000 pieces, while it should be noted that these drugs can be manufactured relatively easily in secret laboratories and their distribution often also takes place in event venues where many young people live. I would like to draw particular attention to one point: I do not understand at all that it is precisely in the field of security that we want to reorganise the budget with excessive savings measures, even in view of the fact that drugs are now also being offered on key press over the Internet. The "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" reports that some websites appear via the Internet, where addiction is offered and can be ordered. ==References====External links== February 2000 states in a report: "Especially soft drugs such as hashish or "Magic Mushrooms" ('Zauberpilze') are completely unsold for sale on various websites in all quantities and variations – including accessories. However, where – especially with regard to the many children and young people among the internet users – everyone stops ‘surfing fun’ – accompanying texts such as: ‘It is unlikely that your order will be stopped by the customs’, or ‘nothing will happen to you if the goods are intercepted’. Ladies and gentlemen! It is foolish to believe that savings measures will increase security here and expect better figures, especially in the area of drug crime, as Mr Kiss has said. I can only say: Saving security is certainly the wrong way!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21387	The next speaker is Mr Auer. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21405	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the 1998 safety report at the end of April 2000. Therefore, I have a request to the new Minister of the Interior Dr. Ernst StrasserIt might be possible to streamline the safety report more efficiently and not so comprehensively – this one has 380 pages – although it is an excellent reference work! Perhaps in the age of electronics it would be possible to streamline the timetable accordingly, because it would be desirable if we could discuss the 1999 safety report today and deal efficiently with the real problems and concerns of last year. Mr Ex-Bundesminister Mag. Karl Schlögl! The current Federal Minister is, as it were, your heritage. And I confirm that you have made a good security policy. But I mean, Dr. Ernst will make street cleaning much better. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] An old statistics doesn't help us. It would be a question of efficiency. We do not need this report to know that the Austrian executive is doing excellent work. It's known that's what officials prove every day. I am therefore grateful to everyone and wish that in the future as few of the difficulties as possible as they have been dealt with by the executive in an excellent way in the past few months!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21450	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21472	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Dietachmayr of the SPÖ has said about the comments made by my colleague, Mr Mainoni, I would like to say right here: If we speak liberals against the use of force in the demonstrations against the government, then we do not mean the right of demonstration as such, but then we mean precisely these uses of violence, and then we also think that you and your officers could have done something louder here in the House! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! If one can give faith to the speakers of the opposition parties, then you must be careful about your ministry, because according to their words one will be able to cancel it quite soon! If I hear the SPÖ-Redners, I have to say: It could appear that SPÖ has solved all security problems. And even if I hear the speakers of the Greens, I have to say: It seems to be developing happily in this area, and the model of society of the Greens, namely the multicultural chaos, finally seems to become reality. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this 1998 safety report is also a summary of the SPÖ's inadequate security policy. For years, the SPÖ has tolerated uncontrolled immigration and the irrational opening of borders, and this policy has led to an intensification in the security field. As a result of the massive freedom policy and the attacks of the opposition at that time, you have recognized this mistake and have partly resorted to countering. You, Mr Schlögl, have done this in recent years as Minister of the Interior, but it has been too late over a long period of time! If I go into some details of the security report here – we could discuss it elsewhere too – then I find some figures that prove it strongly. A number of speakers have already spoken about organised crime. I would therefore just like to stretch this area more in the light of the very short period of time. Minister! In the context of organised crime, we must be concerned with preventing criminal organizations from being established here on the ground. In this context, it is not only the criminal law, but also – and we insist on the value of freedom – that we consistently implement the rules of foreign law and the laws of residence, and where they do not grasp, they must be innovation. Federal Minister! That this consequence is necessary, I note when I read about who we are dealing with here at all, namely: This includes groups of perpetrators from the former Eastern Bloc, whose specialties in drug trafficking, car shift, trafficking in human beings, money laundering and economic crime; criminal groups from the states of the former Yugoslavia, which have developed very special skill in the field of property crime; Turkish criminal organisations, whose fields of activity include drug trafficking and arms trafficking, extortion and protection money collection; Asian criminal organisations dealing mainly with document counterfeiting, towing, protection and money laundering. Minister! In this area, do they put in place effective measures against organised crime as long as the state can face such powers at all! Statistics on the crime of foreigners highlight this claim. [[Abg. Arbitrators: what he says is inconceivable.]] My colleague has already mentioned this: In 1975, the share of foreigners in total crime was still 9.4 percent, whereas in 1998 it has already grown to 19.4 percent! In 1998, in the case of armed, commercial and gang theft, 45.8 percent of foreigners were reported in criminal offences, with some variants of the robbery even 100 percent! I can understand that the Greens seem to consider it normal and do not feel it worth mentioning. We liberals, however, do not want to do that! We will ensure that security remains an essential part of the policy of this federal government, and you, Mr. Federal Minister, as a supporter of this policy will have our support in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21517	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schlögl. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21539	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the debate on this safety report is taking place in an unusual situation. The Minister responsible for this security report has this in good time – Mr Auer! – presented to the Council of Ministers in October of last year. As this security report is unfortunately being discussed in Parliament only today, the responsible minister now acts as an opposition speaker, while the Federal Minister, who is not responsible for it, has today the task of representing this report from the Government Bank. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Nevertheless, I believe that the debate today has succeeded in finding a great deal of common ground. Even the Greens have made a clear commitment to the Austrian executive and to the support of the Austrian executive. This may be a good heritage of my work as Minister, because I have always represented the principle that it is the task of politicians to build bridges and not to break down bridges. Perhaps we have managed to achieve a great deal in this area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone has expressed their support for the fact that we must do everything we can to ensure that the high safety standards are maintained in Austria as well. I warn you that if anyone in this House believes that comprehensive security can only be achieved by acting consistently against crime and crime. This is of course important and necessary, but it is only a small part of a comprehensive safety concept. In reality, we can only ensure that in Austria the rate of crime and crime is as low as possible, if we do everything we can to ensure that we have a high level of social security, if we do everything we can to ensure that the social system is so ruptured that no one in Austria needs to live in need, if we guarantee that the health system in Austria, which is excellent, will continue to be maintained in the future. We must consider security in many areas of society as something comprehensive, whether in the field of the environment, whether in the field of social security, such as the guarantee of pensions, or in the area of the consistent fight against drug crime. I am convinced that if we proceed in this sense, we can also be successful! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Come, sit with us, you belong to us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have been working together in recent years. If I now think that the past Federal Government has adopted an integration package and that a new foreign law and a new asylum law have been adopted in 1997 and entered into force, I believe that this has contributed significantly to the fact that the issue of immigration and asylum policy in Austria is now being discussed with much less emotion than it has been in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But you didn't do that well in your own party!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But we have also moved a lot in a number of other areas. If I just think that in criminalism we have introduced a lot of new possibilities, such as the DNA analysis, about which Austria was a pioneer in the UK and which has brought a great deal for the investigation of crimes that would otherwise not have been done, then I think that really substantial contributions have been made. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You wouldn't have done that without us!]] I would also like to mention other things, such as the law on protection against violence. This anti-violence law is a law unique in Austria, which guarantees that victims of domestic violence actually receive protection and help. This anti-violence law has led the Austrian executive to intervene in more than 20,000 family disputes a year, and this has helped to alleviate the misery and suffering of many women in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I hope that my successor will continue the path I have taken together with the Minister for Women, that the intervention agencies in Austria will also be extended and supported accordingly, because I believe that this is a very, very important institution. The intervention agencies work very well with the Austrian executive, and only in this way is it guaranteed that those women who really need protection and help will receive the necessary care after the first assistance by the executive. Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate there have also been some things that are controversial. I do not want to address everything because today I do not see my task exclusively in defending the 1998 report. But I think we should mention two or three points. First: Mr Kößl! You're right. At the beginning of the 1990s, there was a variety of closures of gene army posts. But, Mr Kiss, don't ask the ÖVP for a child-moving report: The ÖVP has also agreed to these Gendarmerie post closures! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Caspar One was the one who, during his time as Minister of the Interior, ended these Gendarmerie post closures. But already during his work and then in continuation during my work as Minister of the Interior, no more Gendarmerie posts have been closed. This is also to be said very clearly here, because Mr Reindl has said something completely different here. What is also very important to me – a man, a word – is the following: You said in September last year that one of the main conditions of the Austrian People's Party for their entry into a new Federal Government is that 1,000 additional posts are being created for the Ministry of the Interior. I will remind you at the budget debate of this essential condition of the Austrian People's Party! In this sense, I think this safety report of 1998 is... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That prevented Edlinger!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong!]] In my time, I had a very generous Minister of Finance, a Minister of Finance, who had a great deal of understanding for the Minister of the Interior in terms of internal security! And I hope that the current Minister of the Interior will find a similar finance minister. In this sense, we agree to the 1998 Security Report.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21653	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21675	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Ex-Minister Karl Schlögl! Child-moving can be done in such a way. I think that there is indeed a safety report that is of considerable importance and that can be measured by the safety reports of other Western European countries. The thing to think about is, above all, addiction crime and how it develops. In this context, we really have a lot to do, especially because both perpetrators and victims in the area of addiction crime will not and do not want to cooperate with the executive. In this area, we really need to be careful! - But that's not my topic today. My topic today is quite different: We listen to Easter and Pentecost repeatedly stereotype the same reports about road accident development. Today we have 118 fates to complain more than last year to Easter. There are three dead and 115 injured, ladies and gentlemen, and in view of this problem, we should consider a little more precisely what we can and should do. Ladies and gentlemen! The frequency and severity of road accidents are known to be directly related to the level of driving speed. Mr Stoisits and Mr Petrovic have already pointed out this in their speeches, but I am still a bit concerned. We have to ask ourselves: What way does this bring us into a new dimension and in a new direction? – After all, I believe that we are taking too much of an interest in the fact that the executive will already do this. In reality, it is a question of accidental misconduct, and the executive would not have any appropriate means in many areas alone, because we have too few executive officers to deal with the problem. You can't set up an executive officer behind any curve or after any long straightway, where high speeds are driven. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to mention a few theses that I have to do with this. First: Control by the executive is important and indispensable. However, it seems even more important to me to rely on a change in people's behaviour. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The men!]] – Not just the men, Mrs. Colleague! Unfortunately, in the meantime, the ladies are beginning to imitate the male example! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Over 80 percent are men!]] You have to look at the numbers very carefully! I admit that male behaviour in road transport is more aggressive than that of women. Nevertheless, we should consider: For the woman who is killed by a traffic accident, it is completely irrelevant whether she has killed a man or a woman. I think we agree on that! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we should stop killing each other on the street! I mean, it's wrong to present every traffic accident as if it were an inevitable God-worshiped catastrophe; that's actually a traffic accident too much. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Do what? Mr. Strasser, Minister of the Interior, thanked God in his statement on the development of traffic accidents yesterday, he clearly pointed out that he intended to increase the use of marketing measures to meet high speeds and accidents, so to speak, in the run-up to the car associations, the road safety board and, in my view, to the point of being very objective. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not be able to abandon the executive in the field of road accidents development. But what we absolutely need is another way of thinking and another approach to the problem of excessive speeds in connection with road accidents! We have a positive safety report. In some points, changes need to be made. On a number of points, we need the help of the population. I think that we are on the right track with the measures we have taken, as well as with those measures that you, Mr Minister, have announced.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21731	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21753	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The safety report, which is no longer completely updated, is now before us, and all the parties have announced that Austria is a safe country. – It should remain that way, and with the new Federal Minister, this security in our country is more than guaranteed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The safety report is, of course, a success story of our safety executive. I am happy about it and congratulate us on this executive! And of course it may also be a pleasure to ex-minister Schlögl, because that was his responsibility. And why could he make a successful security policy? Because he had the support of the Austrian People's Party, a support which unfortunately God did not give him to that extent by his own group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it! A good conclusion!]] I hope I didn't harm him with that statement. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! He has said something essential, namely that the area of security is comprehensive. To that end, I say: The new Federal Government has begun to offer security in all situations of our lives: securing prosperity, social systems and the future of our youth. A special part of this is the area of security against crimes and crimes assigned to the Minister of the Interior, and I would like to say that our Minister of the Interior passed the fire baptism when he had to deal with violence in the demonstrations with his officials and with his personal commitment. By the way, I would just like to mention that there have been 53 injured officials, 500 damaged equipment, 17 arrests, 200 property damage, and so on, which was supported by the left. Greens, alternatives, socialists, communists and their youth organisations have united, and this has not helped to increase the security of our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This was handled by the sensible, consistent and competent Federal Minister Dr. Ernst Strasser. I would like to congratulate you very much, Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 security reports already show us that there are worse information rates and increasing crime. Of course, we must take into account the recent events in a safety debate and point out that we must be concerned about the road traffic situation – the many fatal traffic accidents – as well as about the increase in organised crime. In this context, I would also like to mention economic crime in addition to the tow. Even though the crime was called "male", I do not just want to assign it to men. It's a general problem. In addition to fighting, we must also step in to make a change in society, that there is an individual responsibility that we should not go to headlines – for example: ==References====External links== The century" – but with individual responsibility and solid participation in road transport. We need to give time to our gendarmen and police so that they can be preventative on the street. We must make this time available to you by burdening them of bureaucratic tasks which do not fall directly into their responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Strasser and the new government will continue to ensure internal security in this country with motivated officials. We as legislators must provide them with the necessary time and legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21830	No further words are available. That concludes this debate. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We therefore come to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of this safety report in III-28 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this safety report to give a sign. The Security Report was adopted by a large majority. We've got the 4th. Agenda item. 5. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (59 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Free movement of Services and the Establishment of European Lawyers in Austria (Eurag) and on Changes to the Code of Lawyers (72 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21879	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Dr. Jarolim. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: 4 minutes!]] Shorter? - Okay.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21948	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current EURAG is based on a highly emotional debate in the Committee. This is about the implementation of an EU directive, namely the Branch Directive for the Lawyers' Office. This Directive is to be transposed, and the issues of transposition are in themselves relatively strong. I can therefore be very brief, even in view of the advanced period. I would like to highlight a few points. There was a discussion for a time about whether or not there should be interdisciplinary society – that is, between lawyers and economic trustees. My group has behaved rather neutrally in this respect. As a lawyer, of course, one has a different position. Finally, Mr. Fekter has prevailed against the Federal Chamber of Commerce and has achieved that the interdisciplinary society is not possible until now. That is right, we have no problems in this regard. Another point which has been raised to the discussion and in which a very remarkable change seems to me also to be evident from the representatives of the Freedom Party was the question of the extent to which the current duration of study and overall education is desirable and acceptable in the pan-European context. I can remind you that Austria – taking together study and legal training – has one of the longest training periods. I dare to say that, with shorter training periods, a level quality standard can be reached within the law firm even if the training is more intensive. We see, for example, in England – there are considerably shorter training times there – that very high knowledge standards are being taught within a short time. It seems to me that the current length of training periods – although I naturally have an open ear for every argument that needs to be guaranteed quality, because the consumer ultimately needs good advice – is a bit prohibitive. Therefore, I believe that we should further discuss the need to adapt, shorten and more practice-oriented study and training time for the lawyer accordingly. We now have a very theory-oriented education at the university in particular, and one actually starts only in practice with another phase, a completely new stage of training. This is not really desirable and not very efficient either. Maybe a short time. The following: It would be useful to solve the issue of the index of documents. This question was discussed a year ago by the Notariats-Vocational-Law-Amending Act. The notaries have such a record register. In my opinion, we should work to ensure that there is a common federal record for all documents and not for every stand its own, because the latter does not actually serve legal certainty or clarity. What is desirable is a single register in which all documents can be found. In this respect, however, the present law – which is not the directive’s requirement, one must add, but one should, nevertheless, deal with it – has not really gone a bit further. Finally, there is also a change in the rules of law which means that, in the case of individual proceedings, the remuneration should be measured more after the case has occurred, which is certainly a step towards greater cost-justice. The reason why we do not agree to this proposal for a law is this. A year ago, in the last debate on the Law Law on Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law-Law, this was actually from both government parties – that it is a concern of the society, a concern of consumers, to try, on the question of the costs of lawyers at the beginning of the representation, to give an excellent information on the way in which costs are calculated – the cost bill is in itself a philosophy of its own and already relatively difficult to understand or apply for a lawyer, and thus the more difficult of course for a consumer – at least in rough outline to give to those who want to consult themselves or depend on it to know how it is going and what it can expect when it receives certain performance packagess. In addition, it should also be given information about the height reached after certain times, about half a year or a year. Finally, the question arises of how to make the cost accounting more comprehensible, because it is a very complex and complicated matter. At that time, in a letter, the Bar Association informed him that it would allow for an improvement in this respect. There was a corresponding committee statement and, ultimately, a recommendation was made to individual lawyers, to improve information and to calculate costs. A recommendation, however, is a recommendation, and those who do not comply with recommendations will again cause exactly the same problems that we already wanted to eliminate, namely incomplete tariff application or no information. We have assumed that once again a statement will be made in the Committee, and at the beginning we have reached relative agreement on this, at least in the case of all those taking part in the discussion, that there is a need for it. Finally, it didn't happen. I do not understand to this day, Mr Fekter, why we have not done this. You have to answer that you didn't want it and that we don't. This is certainly not an improvement in quality standards. In any case, this is the reason for us not to agree to this proposal, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22010	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22031	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! I would also like to take a brief look at the hour ahead. The EURAG is about professional regulations for lawyers who have been intensively formed by the professional group itself and – let me make this assessment – I am not a lawyer – tend not to be called particularly liberal, but rather to be a rather very restrictive law. It includes the action of foreign lawyers in Austria, especially before Austrian courts. There are two possibilities for this, either as a service lawyer without his own law firm in the home or as an established lawyer with the corresponding regulations. This new law also regulates socialization across borders. Unfortunately, Mr Jarolim has already mentioned this, there has not been any arrangements on interdisciplinary societies with other professional groups, because no agreement could be reached within these professional groups with professional professional regulations. This should have led to harmonisation with the other professional professions, but these have not been achieved. I hope it continues to work on it. Finally, I would like to point out that, at the last change in the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice has addressed the request to the Bar, which is set out in a comitology note on 1681 of the Supplements, to amend the guidelines for lawyers on the obligation to provide information on fees to their customers. There should be the admissibility of fees under tariffs, and the ban on advertising should be removed. With regard to my following speakers, who will certainly address this, I would like to say that I have the amendment to the directive here. ==References== 9. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the In this respect, the Board of Advocates has taken into account the request of the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22073	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22095	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the comment made by my previous speaker, the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mrs Fekter. It meant – and we have discussed this in the Committee on Justice – that what is written in a letter dated 11 January 1989. March 1999, addressed to the Court of Justice, Member of the National Council Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, would have been implemented by the Austrian Bar Association. Mrs Fekter, that's not right! On page 1 under the chapter "Article 9, Honor" there is point (c) which reads as follows: The lawyer has, in the event that the extent of his activity significantly exceeds the extent estimated at the time of the award of the contract, to inform the client thereof. - Quote. That is an essential point for me. But this very point, Mr Fekter, is not reflected in the decisions of this delegation conference. The other areas can be discussed whether an amended proposal for a decision is in line with what has been promised to the Committee on Justice. If you please, Mrs Fekter, this is your case as chairman of the Committee on Justice. We, the Socialist Group, will not like this. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, why do I say that? – Now I come back to a case I have already presented in the Committee on Justice. Let me tell you a story. [[Contradict with representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So much time must be, colleague Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I didn't say anything!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] A Salzburg consumer buys an apartment in Salzburg. There are two co-owners who will be transferred to him via a broker office. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... already belongs to the committee!]] This has a lot to do with it, colleague Pumberger. It may not be understood by a doctor, but the lawyers in this House will understand. – Purchase price: 3 million schilling. This is the basis for the fee. It was agreed – after the buyer had been obliged to take a specific lawyer in writing – that: 2 percent of the purchase contract sum plus sales tax and cash outlays, in about 85 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have the bill from this case. The billing... – Mr Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There's a secret of office!]] I was authorized today by the buyer concerned, who came to me as a consumer in the consumer consultation, to present this case. [[Abg. Gaugg: Tragic single-sicksal! Imagine now...!]] – The billing, colleague Gaugg – and therefore there is consumer advice in the Chamber of Workers, remember that! –, is 576 000 S. Now you can of course ask – Mr Gaugg, you should stay here! – who is the saleswoman, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, whoever chooses such a lawyer is either incompetent or insensitive. It is Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Elisabeth Sickl. I recommend that the elected lawyers of the Liberal Group advise them on how to proceed in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Socialist Group is committed to the professions. However, the S & D Group believes that this issue must be considered very differentiated and that the issues of cost law may need to be addressed under the task of existing regulations, which are discussed on the basis of the assessment and other areas, in the sense of the people seeking legal protection, to a new objective or a new, more just solution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are on the side of the people seeking legal protection. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22236	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Dr. Ofner. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22266	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal on which it is based today is a consequence of European agreement. It opens the borders – in the specific case to and from Austria – for lawyers. It is important to keep in mind the numerical circumstances. Since 1945, there have been about 3,500 lawyers in Austria throughout the federal territory. In Munich alone, there are 9 000, and in Milan, as much as I hear, there are 10,000 lawyers. In Germany, there are lawyers who sue the costs of a Talar at the Labour and Social Courts. This is to be financed by the Federal Republic, they say, because they cannot earn enough money – because there are too many – to buy a talar; but the law obliges them to carry a talar in certain types of negotiation. That's just to keep in mind how things are going. I can already imagine that this can be a problem – in Ottakring, where I have my office, not immediately, but perhaps it will soon be felt in Salzburg, in the border areas of Upper Austria, in Innsbruck or also in Vorarlberg. Some of it's already felt there. Essentially, in this context, it also appears to be keeping in mind that the training process in the case of lawyers is a much different one in the individual European countries. In Austria it is particularly long, particularly detailed and particularly strict. The Austrians, I think, have the longest training at all, and they then decide to take it by a written and oral examination, which is actually to be taken seriously, for several days, which you really have to fear and which is also sincerely feared if you take it. In this context, I should like to announce that Mr Martin Graf will still deal with the problem of how training should continue if everyone who is much less trained is allowed to enter and how to oppose the necessary level of quality assurance. To colleagues Maier, who apparently only exercises the profession in order to be able to tire again and again to the lawyers: Maybe he'd like to become one of his own. But you can still start as a late professional, Mr. Colleague, you can still study Jus. Maybe you've already done that anyway. If you want, I'll help you find a concept. If you can't suppress your collision feelings otherwise, see that you're still a lawyer yourself. Then you may realize that this is a profession that is beautiful, but not easy. If I tell you that today I got up at four in the early morning to dictate a scripture that had to go out today, and made that up to seven, then you will... [[Abg. Silhavy: It's just the same with a factory worker who has to get up!]] What do you mean, Mrs. Colleague? - That's right. [[Abg. Silhavy: Many factory workers have to get up at this time too!]] But it was not about whether Mr Maier wanted to become a factory worker, but I suggest to him that he should perhaps try to see the lawyers and not the consumer protectors of the Salzburg Chamber of Workers. And I'm a lawyer, not a factory worker! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But once I was a worker for ten years, Mrs. Colleague! I know that there are a lot of people in your ranks who have always been so jealous of me. In a workers' party everyone would like to have been a worker – but unfortunately in the SPÖ many have been only secretaries throughout their lives, and they suffer until their end of life. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But the cost question is really a problem, and it has several facets. First of all, it's so easy to say: It must provide any information. - Now I've got to cheat. The client comes with a briefcase full of yellowed copies. You take a look inside and say you have to look at this. He says: What does that cost, as much as possible? – But it is not possible to tell him that. The desire that the colleague puts on the table – that he says, at times, what further steps the cost questions take – is understandable. You will also find a way to do this. The next problem is that the tariff is extremely balanced. For lower dispute values, a joke is prescribed by the tariff – that does not even cover the cost to a fraction – and in high areas it is so much that no reasonable person can demand it and cannot expect it to be really paid. The quota litis is prohibited in Austria anyway. Do you think it's a good thing to ban them? – Either something is allowed, or it is forbidden. But to forbid something strict is, I believe, not really comprehensible. Today, with a motion for a resolution, I do not think that it makes sense to want to break things over the knees, which one should consult and discuss. We shall vote against this motion for a resolution. By the way, it is only possible to agree to the proposal. There's nothing else left to you, whether you want or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22331	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. I ask you to pay attention to the speaking time, and also to the corrective and actual situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22364	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor claimed I hadn't studied Jus, or I wanted to be a lawyer. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, he didn't! He asked!]] [[Further calls.]] I'm correcting: I never wanted to be a lawyer, and I studied Jus.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22431	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22453	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! To go to the verbal scharmaützel between the lawyer Dr. Ofner and the workers' chamber attorney Mag. Enter the corn: Dr. Ofner, what do you say? – I am now quoting from that act that Jacky Maier has presented here regarding Mrs. Federal Minister Sickl and the lawyer she has appointed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] There is a service directory at the cost note, among other things: Telephone call response 847 p. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But net!]] As a lawyer, are you not ashamed of this – I call it that – black sheep? – Just, and that’s it! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: No!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You're not ashamed, that's the problem! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But we do not commit the mistake of many people not to let people answer!]] This is the problem of the profession. It's the same as with the police. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Let me say something!]] There are a few black sheep, and all the police are in the corps spirit like a man behind all, even behind the black sheep. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You asked me a question!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'm saying it as a non-lawyer, but as a... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You asked me a question!]] No, I'm talking now. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes, you have judged them! I want to answer her!]] Are you ashamed? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: No!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] No, no, no, She's answered. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very serious matter. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I'm glad you're not a lawyer!]] A cost note, which had an expectation of around 85 000 S against the client and which – now I don't know the exact amount – rose to 580 000 S – can't do anything! That's obvious. [[Call to the Freemen: Reinhardt Seminary, 2. Department!]] This example of my colleague, Mr Maier, shows that something in the whole attitude, what the lawyer's tariffs and promises – now I refer again to the letter of the Bar Association to Col. Fekter, quoted here by Mr. Jarolim and Mr. Maier, where she...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22633	It will be possible that one can talk one after another, and nicely alternate. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: She asks me questions, and I'm not supposed to answer them!]] Please, Mrs Stoisits.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22660	Mr President. You still have the good faith that the colleagues and above all the colleagues have a children's room. They do not even have them in the way they behave in relation to women's MEPs at the speaker's desk. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I'm not going to let myself off my mind to talk about these black sheep. [[Abg. Zweytick: Oh, that's it!]] Returning to the letter to Mrs. Fekter: At the time, this letter of the Bar Association was an essential basis for the consensus that existed in the Committee on Justice – and I assume, in plenary session below – when it came to innovation. But if it turns out a short year later that you don't even stick to that exactly, then it will be justified... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true, Mrs. Colleague! Here, read on: important change!]] It will then have the right to refer this to Mrs President of the Committee on Justice. I say it to protect lawyers, represented by their officials in the Bar Association. That's what's being assembled here. As far as the draft law is concerned, as Mr Ofner has said, we can only ask ourselves the question: What is to be said about a draft law that does virtually nothing but understand an EU directive if we have no other choice at all? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're asking a question again, but you're not expecting an answer!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen: I have nothing against opening up to lawyers from other EU countries! A little fresh wind in this country certainly does good especially for the professions in the sense of competition, even with regard to the costs for customers and clients. But I wonder: Is there any apparent reason why a Slovenian, Hungarian, or Slovak lawyer is treated differently from an Italian lawyer – not to say, a Portuguese who is much further away? – There is no clear reason why Austria should not, at a time when it only understands an EU directive, extend it beyond that in a national regulation. No one tells us anything about this. There is no reason not to do this and to maintain the mentality of a three-class society here – here Austria, here EU and here third-country nationals. Enlargement would be in the sense of liberalisation, of more market, more competition and thus more choice. In my opinion, this would be a sign for the professions and not against the professions, ladies and gentlemen. That's why, unfortunately, I have to say, I do not agree with this law. A final word on the Maier-Stoisits motion for a resolution, to which Mr Ofner has announced that he will not agree. Although he has explained a little why not, he has not, of course, stated that three out of five points in our motion for a resolution today have been taken from a resolution tabled by Mr Graf – but not because they are from Graf, but because they are reasonable because I think it is reasonable to introduce the letter election to the Bar, because I think it is reasonable to introduce the active and passive right of election for lawyers to the Bars, because we think it is reasonable to involve lawyers in the old-age, professional inability and survivors' provision, because the reasonable proposals are – even if they came from the liberties at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Thank you!]] That you are distanced from it today is probably not our concern, but that is your problem with your own credibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22749	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22770	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mrs Stoisits is somewhat unfair in the argument or in the question if she does not want to know the answer. I can tell you! It is also a bit unfair to act here in front of the group of delegates as if it had not been condemned in the committee in particular by the four lawyers present in the form in which it was placed. To this day, however, the question is open to me – and I would now be interested in it very slowly – whether the address of this honorary note actually paid for it. I don't think so. That would probably be a prerequisite. One is that of course there are black sheep, and these are to be condemned. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Do you want to drive them in?]] – No, they can be condemned! We hope that you will take this away from us that we have expressed a unanimous opinion there. It was now presented by this speaker's board only in such a way that it looked as if there had been no such one in the committee. The other is that, in the event of defaults, there are, of course, always possibilities for ushering against them, whether it be the cost office of the Bars, whether through consumer protection information or through the consumer departments of the Chamber of Labour. There are many possibilities. The essential and interesting thing is only whether, in the final analysis, the affected person comes to his right in a rule of law. Of course, there can be errors, they are never excluded. That's why there are instances. Otherwise, we don't need any bodies. I think it would also be fair to say whether this has actually become striking on this point at all. I think you should stay here a little bit with honesty. I would like to say to the directive we are now implementing: Every year again! We have a problem here, of course, because there have been many preliminary talks during the last period and then there has been a change of government and we are now forced to do so until 14.3. – we are already a little late – to achieve an EU-compliant implementation of the Branch Directive, where we said last year at the latest that the last novel is not sufficient. I also say at this point: It will also not be enough for me to suffer, but that is the absolute minimum that needs to be implemented. The fact that one refuses to carry it is actually surprising to me in this regard. I believe that there is still some need to finally bring about a regulation for interdisciplinary societies. I am almost sure, however, that the market will overrun us and that the international train, which is finally over us in the liberal professions, will create an order here. I would be much more pleasant if we were to reach a solution during this period, which we are trying to reach out here in Austria, without perhaps requiring a European condemnation. That domestic discrimination in the foreign sector – I am correcting – in the field of education – is actually getting more and more serious – Mr Posch, it is already late, I know, but you have understood! – that she is moving on more and more,... – Mr President! [[Abg. May. Posch: The "Imnational Discrimination in Foreign Affairs"?! ...!]] [[Further call of the Abg. May. Posch.]] If a liberal makes an intervening call and is constantly disrupting you, then you are very eager to bring the liberal member to the raeson. On the other hand, if someone from your group is constantly bothering the speaker, I will not hear anything from you. I would also ask you once again to have the same right for all and perhaps to intervene in this respect with the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22818	Deputies! If you have heard Mr Ofner's interlocutory call and Mr Posch's two sentences, you must not only compare the same thing with the same thing, but also inequalities with the same thing. Please be so good and continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22845	Mr President. I have heard more than two sentences from colleagues Posch – but that is it now. [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] What surprises me, however, is – and this is also a rather unique case – that, at the request of the Bar Association of Advocates with § 48, the flat-rate compensation system, which is not necessary in itself, is implemented. I am disappointed by the fact that here the Federal Bar Association is passing over the affected individual Bar Association, in this case the Chamber of Advocates Vienna. I think the lawyers were always well advised to show agreement here. When they lose this unity, they weaken their profession permanently. I would have liked us to bring another regulation here. Now to Mr Maier's motion for a resolution. Of course, it honors me that he takes over three of his five points from my present request. But once again it is completely inadmissible injunctimised, and therefore I personally cannot do this now – with two points that in themselves have nothing to do with my then points. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with God only to three fifths. I can assure you, however, that in these areas, which you have listed as points 3, 4 and 5, this Minister of Justice of the old-fashioned tradition, he will invite all political groups, including interdisciplinary societies, on the issue of the elimination of domestic discrimination, on the issue of the "Competitive Enforcement" of the Chambers and the profession, involving a modern electoral right, perhaps including the necessary age, professional inability and survivors' provision for professional growth, he will also have a consensus with the chambers during this period. I'm sure that will happen in this legislative period! For reasons which I have already mentioned, I cannot support this request because there are two unsolicited points in it, which have only been presented here as a quick shot. The other three points are good – they also come from me, I have to say – but also need a broad discussion, perhaps also with the professions. We shall certainly put forth effort to do this. You are then warmly invited to cooperate actively with Mr Maier and Mr Jarolim, so that in these areas, as in the past, perhaps we can get back to the fact that we are actually reaching a consensus on the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22904	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. A final word of the rapporteur is not required. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 59 of the Supplements. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to vote in favour of this bill for a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. The draft law was adopted at second reading by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to the presentation, to give a sign on this matter. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Maier, Mag. Stoisits concerning the revision of the order of law and of the RATG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. We have also discussed this item on the agenda. 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (31 of the Supplements): Agreement pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the simplified extradition procedure between the Member States of the European Union and Declarations of the Republic of Austria (73 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22974	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. There is no wish for oral reporting. Mr Heinzl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – I don’t have any more words yet. I therefore ask you to note that we will soon have a vote again. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23004	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the media, extraditions are often the subject of very spectacular cases, such as the long-standing FPÖ National Council member Rosenstingl or Mr Rabelbauer, who was in close contact with the ÖVP at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in such cases, the impression often arises that the suppliers usually try everything in order not to be delivered. This is not the case in a number of cases in practice. Sometimes it is in the interest of the subcontractor that he comes to Austria as quickly as possible in order to obtain a fair procedure here under ordinary legal conditions. Of course, this should not mean that there is no rule of law in other Member States of the European Union. Of course, there are legal procedures there, but it is also a difference whether one gets the procedure handled near his family, near his relatives and his social environment, or whether one is in a long-term extradition somewhere abroad. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The further major innovation can be seen as the short-term commitment of the execution of the extradition procedure and the transfer of the requested person to the requesting State, which is intended to reduce the duration of the extradition. Especially for the ultimately innocent, extradition is an absolutely lost, most unpleasant time, but even the potential debtor will usually be happy if he gets the extradition time quickly behind him. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It depends on where!]] This Convention will lead to a reduction in the duration of the extradition procedure, probably also by the introduction of the direct business path between the competent authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that six Member States of the European Union, namely Denmark, Germany, Finland, Portugal, Sweden and Spain, have already ratified the Convention, I consider that it is time for Austria to comply with this commitment, at least in the good middle of the EU countries. The flexible legal framework that this Convention is now creating will bring improvements to all parties involved. It is also important to stress that the procedure provided for needs, in any case, approval by the competent authorities of the requesting State and their assessment of its legality and effectiveness. An article also guarantees that this Convention will also be open to all States that will become members of the European Union. This means that even with the EU candidates now under negotiation, improvements in the extradition process will be possible in the future, of course only after accession to the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can, on behalf of my group, with good conscience call for the agreement to be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23040	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee for approval of the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with statements by the Republic of Austria, in 31 of the Supplements to the Stenographical Protocols. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to grant this approval to be a sign of approval. – This is almost unanimously adopted, but at least by a very large majority. In this context, we shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG to decide that the Convention, in its Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish versions, is announced by the fact that they are available for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the official hours. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give the Committee's request their approval to give a sign in this regard. – This has also been adopted by a very large majority. 7. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Terezija Stoisitsand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Criminal Code (StGB), BGBl. 60/1974 as amended by BGBl. I 153/1998, amended (82/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23092	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. Mrs Stoisits has come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23116	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Not or not only the recent report by the Ministry of the Interior on the situation of extreme right in Austria, which of course had not yet been included in the security report we discussed before, has prompted me to present this initiative, but it was primarily a television broadcast in the ZDF and related press reports. According to the TV report, the NPD has recently provided in Germany a platform for right-wing extremists who do not have a field of activity in Austria, because they belong to legally prohibited organisations in Austria and thus what they do would be sanctioned by the Prohibition Act. The situation report of the Ministry of the Interior on the extremism of the right simply refers to what this ZDF report described as "forbidden legal refugees". Neonazis, who violates the prohibition law in Austria and therefore deliberately and purposefully does not develop their activities on Austrian territory, simply and simply shift it across the border to Bavaria and become active there. These are now phenomena that are not only isolated, but that is happening – and that is what has been said about constitutional protection in Germany – specifically, that is happening quite consciously, and this is also clearly and clearly guided in the way. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation report of the Ministry of the Interior clearly reports this. We have therefore decided to make an application that says nothing else in order to put it very simplified now than that so-called "forbidden legal refugees" should not be able to develop their activity impunity on non-Austrian soil – that is, in other countries – but should they be held responsible if they violate the Austrian Prohibition Law – in this case I am now speaking specifically of Austrians. The amendment of § 64 StGB is necessary for this purpose. It is a similar regulation, although not identical in all the details, as we have just recently decided on it in the National Council for so-called sex tourists. If I remember correctly, it was at the time, whether the revulsion of these acts, that there was a unanimous agreement to this amendment. A similar problem is that of the "forbidden legal refugees". Therefore, our initiative to change § 64 StGB, and now I come back to the report that I did not yet know at the time of the submission of the application, is simply to take action. The Stapo site report states that the Republic of Austria is now faced with a resurgence of right-wing groups. That too is a fact. Although this problem is not removed from the world by a revision of § 64, it is certainly not in the sense of the Austrian Prohibition Act that it is simply developing its activity from neighbouring countries and thereby withdrawing from criminal proceedings, which, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly not in the sense of the Austrian Prohibition Law. Therefore, this proposal for initiative, for which Greens has been signaled to us in advance by all parties in the National Council for approval or positive response. I hope that the Minister of Justice is of the same opinion and that we will be very accessible to the Justice Committee – and I am very open here and also to all the proposals made by the Ministry of Justice, which may be more precise and successful in detail – in the near future – I am assuming that at the next meeting of the Justice Committee, this problem will be addressed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23162	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23183	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Stoisits has already explained the intention of this request. In fact, the question is: Is there a need for action in this direction? The situation report, which is, by the way, a newer one than the security report discussed today, says explicitly that people who would in itself be persecuted in Austria withdraw from the persecution through membership of the NPD from Germany in an illegal manner. The need for action here is therefore undisputed. The question of whether this formulation is the appropriate way to deal with this problem is quite right. It is not only an alibi treatment, it is a question of how we can actually become addictive to these people. In this context – and we are indeed discussing the matter of the Prohibition Act – the dramatic increase in the number of ads described in this Situation Report is alarming. This graphics really deserves attention. [[The speaker shall keep a graphic shown in that report up to date.]] It shows that by 1992 until which the Prohibition Act had provided for very high penalties, the number for this reason has not been very high. As a result of the 1992 revision, the number of ads increased. It then went down again, was at its highest level in 1994 and 1995 – higher than it was last year – and again significantly declined from 1996 to 1998 and increased again in 1999. The question of why so many ads have occurred under the Prohibition Act in 1994, 1995 and 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Election campaign!]] Electoral campaign, says Mr Fekter, and she is perfectly right to do so. What was the point of these elections? . I quote from this report again: It was about right-wing and xenophobic-motivated crimes. – You certainly remember that these elections were conducted by the Freedom Party at least with hostile slogans. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 1994 when it came to the budget?]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: In addition, there's more ads inside!]] There is a connection between these two phenomena, or one can at least create such a one with fug and law: If, on the one hand, a large or relatively large political party makes this attitude hopeful, it also finds imitators who go far beyond the goal. Let us look at this report a little further: It is mentioned in the Constitutional Prohibition Act. – We still have a representative in this House – not in the National Council, but in the Federal Council – namely, Federal Councillor John Gudenus of the Freedom Party, who repeatedly emphasizes that this prohibition law is actually a law that cannot be brought into line with his views of freedom – it repeats almost constantly – which rejects this very effective law itself. It is interesting in this area, for example, what can be read on page 10: In connection with this, the Executive Student Connections, which are united in the umbrella association of German citizens, have examined. These also include a number of connections in Austria. It was found that of the total of around 30 such student connections, there is no militaric and obvious but subversive legal extremism. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is an understatement! Don't put...!]] – I quote here literally from the report of the Ministry of the Interior, which says: "officially usable report" – please nice! [[Abg. Aumayr: Nevertheless, it is an understatement!]] [[Abg. Young: That's exactly what I criticized today, Mr. Cot!]] [[Abg. Young: submissions without evidence!]] – Please, you really have to do that with the experts in the Ministry of the Interior! I think that this finding is extremely precise, clear and correct. That's also my personal opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What do you say about the student connections quoted in the right-wing extremism report? – He literally says: I belong to both the Turnerbund and a Waffen Student Corporation. I also have no intention of questioning this membership, since there is a very substantial educational and educational work being done there. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right!]] – He speaks of educational and educational work! In the report, we read of an understated and proclaimed right extremism. [[Abg. Aumayr: These are precepts!]] I ask you: Is this the educational and educational work? [[Abg. Boy: These are suspicions!]] These are suspicions? Let's continue to page 24. That's probably also a suspicion! – I quote: ==References== In November 1999, the former RAF- and now-right-extremist Horst Mahler spoke at the Freiheitlichen Akademikerverband in Vienna. – These are also assumptions, are they? [[Abg. Well done: Aha!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That's the climate you've created! And I'm not convinced that you're going to stop it now, because your reactions here are pretty treacherous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me address something in this report that has already been mentioned today: Federal Chancellor Schüssel mentioned in his speech in the morning that, unlike other European countries, there had been no attacks on asylum homes or the like. From page 31 – this is tragic and cannot be approved by anyone here – a total of 14 such cases of infringements in 1999 have been identified, documented and demonstrated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have to deal with this danger ourselves! But we will not get done with it when we close our eyes to it – as the Federal Chancellor has done today – and say: There's no such thing as that with us! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Some interesting and important approaches are included in the Preamble and the Government Programme, and we would like you to address this problem with the same energy with which you deal with the de-stateization and disassembly of civil service as responsible government parties!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23398	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23420	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In view of the youth of this day, we could also quote 24 hours from any report, we would be tempted to go into detail, but I will nevertheless try to make just a few comments on the current proposal. The fact is that many of the crimes committed abroad are already covered by Austrian jurisdiction today, probably also those which are subject to the prohibition law, for example because these acts have led to partial consequences in the country. I admit, however, that Mrs Stoisits' request is certainly justified in this way, that, in the present international situation in which Austria is located, it is necessary to deal with the concern behind this request particularly carefully. I would like to support the Austrian People's Party: The ÖVP detests any kind of extremism – whether it comes from right or left. Therefore, it should be examined whether such a provision should be extended not only to individual acts but to any kind of extremism. In any case, however, a quasi-export of political criminal provisions raises a number of issues that will be carefully examined. Above all, it is to be asked whether an intrusion of this matter in Z 4 would be useful, because then an extension would also take place on citizens who are not Austrians, and and and so on. There are a number of questions, such as the evidence et cetera. I do not want to go into it in detail now. We therefore do not, in principle, reject the present proposal. We think you should really check the matter. It is necessary to end all consequences in peace and finally to decide how we can best help the cause behind the request to succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23463	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 82/A to the Committee on Justice. 8. Point First reading: Request from Members Doris Buresund comrades concerning a federal law amending the rental law (90/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23502	We shall now proceed to item 8 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23529	Mr President. Federal Minister! If I pursue the debate on housing rights as a tenant, I can only say: Now, five after twelve, according to the proposals of the new coalition for tenants, it is at least five to twelve. . I would like to replicate briefly the debate on the right of residence of the last week. The draft new housing law proposal submitted by the Government is exclusively at the expense of the tenants and at the expense of those seeking housing, and of which young families in particular are affected. The public discussion, which has also been led by the social democracy and the tenants' protection organizations in response to this coalition draft, has also brought success to the tenants, this social tenant scrapping programme, and I believe we can be proud of it! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: What successes?]] The first success is that we have succeeded in preventing this night and fog action in which you wanted to pass this law without consideration and without involving those concerned, namely the tenant, and without involving the professional groups concerned. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's free invention!]] Now we have at least a limited review, Mr Firlinger. This bill and your attempt to carry it out in a night and fog action are another proof of your dialogue inability, which also runs through all other social policy areas! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am glad that we will be able to draw attention to what burden package you are planning in a public hearing in which a discussion of our applications for the rental law will also be on the agenda! Second point: In the public discussion with the tenants' representatives, we have succeeded in preventing the large rental increase programme you had planned. They had provided that you would also bring about a doubling until triple the rent for those who enter a rental relationship that was established before 1982, even if you then tried to cover it up and hide it, but there is the corresponding draft. This affects 200 000 people in our country. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Where do you get this? It's a horrendous thing!]] Therefore, I am glad that we have succeeded in achieving that this is no longer contained in the present draft. This is a success of social democracy in the run-up! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But it's still bad enough. They need not worry, for the interests of homeowners are preserved! It's bad enough of your thoughts. You will only offer tenants more rental contracts with expiry date in the future. – I know: None of you probably live in a temporary rental relationship. All of them have certainly addressed it! But I'm telling you: I know from practice what a lease with due date means! For the homeowner, this means that stock will become free if he wants, and that in turn means a massive increase in value. For the tenants, however, this means that they will become extortionable or have to beg to the owner that their rental contract will be extended. This means limiting legal certainty for tenants. You have promised to reduce rent, now you do the opposite. We will have to discuss a number of measures in the budget accompanying law tomorrow, with which you will simply make renting and living more expensive. [[Abg. Haigermoser: About rent: How is that in the Löwelstraße?]] I only call the energy tax, the electricity price – you know it – but also the exemption. You get 50 million of the cooperative tenants, you get 100 million to 150 million of the "small" house-keepers. This is a social scrapping program at the expense of the tenants! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our request is about renting, as it were, the price of the contract ticket – these supplements, such as for washing machine connection, small house surcharge, room height surcharge, the imagination is set no limits, lead to renting from 120 S to 130 S per square meter! - To stop. Such rents cannot afford young families! If you are serious, you agree to our request. But I doubt it. As the last decisions have shown, you have the right to represent the foreign exchange: Promise and break. The FPÖ, since it was in the government, has also lost all the elections. I don't think I need to remind you! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop saying the untruth!]] I say: If it is serious to you, then support our request! In fact, this would be a reduction in rents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23646	The next speaker is Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23668	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should try to look at the very sensitive policy field of housing policy as emotionally as possible. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The words of Deputies Bures were very emotional!]] In addition, I mean – I am a long-term residential politician – that housing policy must also be considered longer-term. The curves should not be too sluggish and not too narrow, for the sufferers are those who live in the apartments. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== October so amazingly pasted: "Men to reduce", so I mean, you really should stand by what you write on posters before. People seem to have believed in it, for otherwise the liberals would not have received so many votes. But if you do, Your applications are read, you can see what is behind your residential policy considerations, then it is clear and clear that the ÖVP has fully enforced itself. At no point in the templates I know so far, rents are reduced, in no area – especially in the private rental areas where people pay the highest rents – you will reduce the rents. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ government! I really can only appeal to you to take a closer look at the request we have now made. It contains a number of approaches, which are very reasonable and assume from the philosophy that housing has to remain manageable – this statement also comes from your ranks – that there should be no unlimited rental rents, that there is a clear limitation of rents and that the rental rate should be comprehensible and that, above all, the temporary rental contracts should be really well and rethinked. There is a proposal from you, but I do not think that this proposal makes rents cheaper. If, according to your proposal, you want to make a 25 percent discount from a base that is not clearly defined, then 25 percent also use nothing! This is the problem with which we have to fight! We cannot discuss this in detail today, but we will have the opportunity to discuss it in detail at the next meeting of the Building Committee and in the Hearing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23703	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23725	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Mr Eder mentioned that it was on 23 March. May give an expert hearing, in which only matters of housing law will be advised. That's why I can take a short look. In the 13 years of the coalition with the SPÖ, we have successfully prevented exactly the content that is now found in this application. Mrs Bures! That's why I'm saying: Promise and never broken! We can't accept that! The upper limit has never been to be discussed with us, because fixing a guide value plus 20 percent as a ceiling for rents in the law is market disrupting and price-provoking, because it automatically applies the limit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, you will be re-explained by the regulation relating to the rent payment, which is currently in force. They want the landlords to pay the taxes for the rental income first and then let them put the money into the house renovation again. In other words, you require the landlords to pay taxes to the Minister of Finance for rent and then invest money from any other kind of income. That is impossible, that is not fair, that is not fair, and therefore we cannot accept it! This is a very, very left-wing request from an ideological point of view. Again, Mrs Bures: Promise and never broken! – We cannot accept such a thing!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23778	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23799	Mr President. High house! I am, in principle, willing to discuss everything in the rental law sector! Why not? – I am so glad that at least Mr Eder has found a different and more moderate tone here. I do not think that Mrs Bures' appalled, slightly comical relationship has anything to do with materiality. [[Abg. Nicer: That's huge!]] Rather, the round envelopes and naked polemics are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] I don't understand you need such a thing, but that's just a question of taste! I'm not going to get that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] It's not serious either! As has already been said, we will be able to discuss this presentation of the coalition parties in detail as part of the expert hearing. But I really have to reject a statement with all my determination: We didn't break anything over the knee, Mrs Bures! We have carried out a very regular but voluntary committee review! I don't know where you always take such nonsense and why you put such claims in the room that don't hold at all. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you homeowners?]] You're talking about something completely different: They want to benefit from any change and any reform that comes from us in order to insure the people outside! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] You did that with the housemasters, and that's what you do with tenants' associations. You are insecure, and the main thing is that you can mobilize the masses and walk on the road! That's your policy! But that's not our policy! We have nothing to do with this, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you want us to get back to moderate and objective tones, you also have to make constructive contributions. However, what you have brought here, Mrs Bures, is not a constructive contribution! This is a template that you tried to celebrate in the previous legislative period – I think it was in summer – in the last minute of the time to celebrate to their coalition partner. It's almost the same thing you brought in a year ago. That was indisputable for us at the time and it is still today. It's a left model, a regulating model, and the word "market" is a foreign word for you. – That is not the way to make housing policy, at least not with us! – I would like to say: [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Make proposals where the word "market" is also present. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do the "little" tenants say?]] Let us make the proposals you made at the time, which Mr Eder also presented in the course of the main debate on rental rights. He dropped her. If we move in the direction, we may get closer to each other, otherwise not! And if we don't approach each other, we'll find a way to get through it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23907	Mr Brosz, the last one to speak, is Mr Brosz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] – Mr Brosz! You're talking! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23940	But there's so many more talking! That's why I'm waiting a little until the others are done. [[Mr Haigermoser and Mr Fekter.]] Mr President. High house! I'd like to talk, but the others don't seem to want it yet. Maybe... [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We still have enough time! That's not the problem. It's only 20 minutes after midnight! [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] You could stop talking to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I'll start already! Mr Haigermoser, I haven't started yet and you've been talking all the time! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] It's good you're waiting! Take it easy, then I'll start. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is the "most powerful" speech I have ever heard!]] It might be useful to bring calls to a speech only if the speech has already begun but does not make intermediate calls a previous speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24010	Mr Brosz! Take the floor, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24025	The style in this high house is already amusing. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I have not even begun, and Mr Haigermoser and your group are talking about it. I would like to start with my speech now, then you can intercede. That's incredible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] [[Call of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] We have heard about a left-wing model presented by Mr Bures. I'd like to say: The model you have presented in the last days and weeks would deserve the name "a right model" very well! The point in the debate on housing law in recent years was – and there, of course, one cannot take away the SPÖ from the criticism – that a lot of step by step has been torn down, so to speak, and therefore a clear legal approach was impossible. Criticism is first of all about the slow and gradual limitation of fixed rent-rate restrictions or fixed rent-rate limits, which began in the 1980s and then continued step-by-step. This is also stated in the application, and this criticism that there is no exactly manageable data is very well justified. I confess to you by the SPÖ in view of the calls that are now coming, that you have suffered very much from your coalition partner! Nevertheless, I would like to say that these restrictive measures have already begun in 1981 when there was an exclusive government of the SPÖ. At that time, we started to get away from fixed interest rates. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Thank God!]] I can still remember the discussions about popular desire for housing in the early 1990s. At that time, many criticisms were expressed, but they were unfortunately very little heeded by God. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You weren't there at that time!]] Nevertheless, I have already had something to do with the rental right in 1990! Whether you know that or you're interested in it, I don't really care! The fact is: There was then a popular desire and corresponding initiatives. Mrs Bures will know that, the homeowners will know less. There will probably be a reason why people like Mr Neudeck in the FPÖ are now responsible for the housing situation and for housing policy, namely people who have access to the rental right through their professional situation other than the "small" people you want to represent here. The homeowners and brokers will probably not necessarily make an apartment policy for the "small" people you seem to want to represent as well! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: My tenants are very satisfied!]] On the content: Mr Bures' request contains demands which the Greens have made in recent years. If a model that restores the rights of the tenants and contains the possibility of fixed boundaries is apparently a left model for you, then I would like to say: You have a somewhat strange concept of separation from left and right! But we will see what your concept of right policy looks like! I would like to say that after you put these terms in the room without interruption! The fact is that the situation for the tenants in Austria has become drastic in recent years. You can ask the "little" people you keep addressing, how it looks like the livability of living! If you now call the reduction or redeployment of fixed-term deposits louder than your policy, then you have to say: There's already in the law! The arrangement you make will mean that there will be only three years of temporary rental contracts, because it will no longer pay off to take a longer term. And I wonder if this is a special policy and a special... [[Abg. Neudeck: You have no idea of the market, Mr Colleague!]] The market is a separate chapter in social policy. In fact, we believe in the market only limited! We also believe that in rental law you really have to consider very carefully which areas you can leave to the market and which one should regulate. And if you act just like regulations are something dissuasive, then I can imagine what the rental policy of this new Federal Government will look like in the next few years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24130	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 90/A to the Committee on Justice. 9. Point First reading: Request by Mr Doris Buresund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Consumer Protection Act (91/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24169	We come to item 9 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24196	High house! It is de facto the continuation of the discussion on how to reduce costs and help those who really need help. You are right: In the past, we have consistently continued to represent the tenants' interests in this country as regards our position on real estate commissions. The fact is that in Austria we have the highest broker commissions in Europe, both when renting an apartment and when buying an apartment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] I know that doesn't matter to you. Nevertheless, I call the order of magnitude: On average, an apartment-seeker in Austria pays around 24 000 S only to broker commissions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] In comparison, I would like to mention that there are countries in Europe in which the tenant does not pay any commissions at all because the client is the landlord, for example in Belgium, Great Britain, the Netherlands, Norway and Switzerland. Mr Firlinger! In Switzerland, Norway and Great Britain one knows the word "market", but there are no broker commissions there that the tenant has to pay! And in all other European countries, broker commissions are much lower than in Austria. We have been criticizing this for years and have been trying to change it for years. Of course, there have always been conflicts with the ÖVP. It was about a balance of interests. ÖVP has always represented the interests of homeowners, social democracy has always stood on the part of tenants. And the FPÖ promises and breaks, as we now know. That's the line, as it were. If you are in favour of reducing these costs, we can discuss this proposal. Today we are only talking briefly about this, but I believe that we need to take more time for it in the future in the interests of those seeking housing. What are we talking about? – We are concerned with reducing the high commission limit of three gross monthly rents, which are usually also required. Furthermore, we know from investigations that some 16 percent broker commissions are also prohibited. Therefore, we demand that the limit for broker commissions be reduced to three net monthly rents. This would be similar to about EU level. In this context too, you can again take up the evidence of whether you are in favour of reducing the cost of housing seekers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24260	The next speaker is Mr Eder. Time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24281	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really can't spare the Freedom Party the accusation that their posters have been written: Drop rent! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The broker fees are also part of the rent and are housing costs. Therefore, I can only appeal to you that You comply with your rules of play and your election promises, because there is a real need for action here! Since my previous speaker referred to the broker commissions, Mr Neudeck, I would like to mention a few figures: For example, in Austria, for an apartment that conveys a broker, 24 516 s are charged, compared to that in Germany 14 364, in Finland 8 900, and in Denmark 6 700 – there is something in the state of Austria that does not match with the broker commissions. I therefore think it would be very reasonable – as I also put great hope in the new Minister of Justice, Dr. Böhmdorfer, who, in my opinion, clearly understands – to review and consider whether there is no real need for action here. It should be the objective that the entry thresholds are lower if the rents are already high. If the young families entering an apartment or looking for an apartment are also charged high entry thresholds in the form of these broker commissions, I wonder what this has to do with the policy of FPÖ for the "small" people. You promised it in the election campaign, but in your proposals you break one by one. [[Abg. Neudeck: There you have experience!]] [[Further calls.]] I understand that it is now difficult, in a coalition with the ÖVP, to comply with the previous election promises, which one has given, which one cannot actually do. They now stick together and suffer from what the smaller coalition partner lets you look at here all the time. I can only ask you here that you help and agree to such a request – this is a request that could be yours – and finally also in the field of housing policy. In fact, to keep their promises of election, to do something for the "small", decent Austrians. So far, you haven't done anything for the "little", dear Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24331	Mrs Johanna Mikl- Leitner spoke next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24352	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The two previous speakers from SPÖ have received their request shortly. For me, this proposal is very curious in some respects. This can be explained very easily, and I would like to do so in my remarks. As far as the application is concerned, it can generally be said that the SPÖ is about reducing broker fees for consumers. This is a demand that has not been unknown to all of us and has been raised once and for all and that at first sight has something tempting, but I also consider it important to refer here to the Real Estate Real Estate Regulation and the Real Estate Real Estate Regulation of 1996. This set the maximum limit for the broker commission, i.e. 3 per cent of the purchase price, as well as three monthly rents for indefinite rental contracts and two or one month rents for temporary contracts. [[Abg. Eder:... are 6 percent!]] In addition, comprehensive information and information obligations were laid down and, of course, the right of withdrawal was granted to the consumer in order to protect him. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Living Stone Age!]] It is very interesting that all these arrangements have brought joy to the former Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection and to the former Social Democratic Federal Minister. This is still to be read in all the brochures today. But at one time all of this should be inadequate, all these regulations need to be changed and corrected! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Eder: Only the fees belong lowered!]] I am really not sure whether you are really concerned about consumer protection or whether it is just a party-political game, whether it's purely effective, whether it's purely populism from your side. [[Call the SPÖ: Who else?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen from the Social Democratic side! I know you're not tired of criticizing the government day out. I know that you are constantly criticizing – unfairly, unjustly – and that you are blaming the government to have already left the way of social partnership. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Whose business is that?]] But now I ask you the question, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ Where is your willingness to talk? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is this text?]] Have you already been talking to the chamber? Have you already conducted detailed discussions with the innung? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I do not think this should have happened so far, for otherwise you would know that there is a willingness to talk and to discuss both on the part of the Chamber and on the part of the Innung. [[Abg. Eder: Farnleitner said...!]] But I think the only thing you do is: You preach water, and you drink wine! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What kind of text is this?]] As a consumer protection spokesman of the ÖVP, the ÖVP club, I can still imagine a shift in the commission burden from the buyer and tenant to the seller and landlord. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You have to turn around! You say that for the second time!]] Of course, we need to talk about it in detail and discuss it in detail. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is that in the text?]] But one must be clear. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not in the text!]] [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Joseph, you're tired!]] All interests must be taken into account, all interests must be balanced and discussed in detail. But I do not see from your side any approach, no social partnership approach. I miss these from your side completely! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This request still has a very big hook for me. As you know, according to the current statistics, many brokers often no longer make the placement of dwellings at a rental price of 6 000 s, because the effort is in no relation to the revenue. On average, about 20 visits are necessary until completion. Of course, the cost of brokers is much higher than their revenue. Of course, you can discuss other solutions. Of course, it is possible to find a solution so that in the future a commission can be requested for each visit. But that is not a solution in our view. It was, as you know, from the beginning, above all our desire that only if a contract is concluded must be paid. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Talk time!]] We will continue to do so, and I think that is of great importance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Speaking time 3 minutes! Unheard of!]] Short to reduce broker fees: I think we all know that it often depends on a reduction in broker fees... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (passing the speaker's desk) Listen, we're at 1:00 in the morning!]] Sorry! – If we reduce broker fees, it will hardly be possible for the smaller brokers in particular to make mediations for cheaper, cheaper apartments. Whether it's social, be it. But I think we do not solve the problems if we simply destroy a profession one-sided and strive for a class struggle. [[Abg. May. Posch:... Klubobmann!]] This is not a solution as you can find in numerous publications. It cannot be that the homeowners are being raised against the citizens and that the brokers are directed against the customers. That can't be a solution! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I call on you not to seek common solutions against each other, but to seek common solutions. In this sense, I hope in the future for a relationship and not for a mutual!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24658	Mr Neudeck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24706	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Bures and Mr Eder's request does not primarily benefit consumers, but rather should make it difficult or impossible for a whole profession to exercise its activity – that is, pure class struggle! For the time being, the explanatory statement sets out the false claim that higher commissions are to be paid in Austria in the EU comparison than in other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Jungfernred!]] This claim is also not more correct by repeated setting up. If this study is about Lehofer's AK study, I have to say that it proves the opposite – do you want to read it? – as far as these comparisons are at all possible. [[Abg. May. Posch: Leave it in writing!]] In Austria, both in terms of height of rent and in terms of length of rent, there are mandatory provisions which distort the market and therefore do not allow for these comparisons. It should also be noted that in some EU countries expenditure can also be charged in the event of unsuccessful mediation. These substitutes for ads and fees are foreign to the Austrian Honorary Guidelines. It should also be noted that these fees are maximum rates which have not been charged in recent times, contrary to your claims, due to the rotation of the market, in any case not in all cases. In this too we distinguish ourselves from God, thank you very much in the opinions. I trust the market and the consumer's negotiating skills more than the social-democratic spirit of regulation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Bures! If you want to do good to the consumer and the tenant, then act in Vienna in the sector of municipal tenants. Ensure proper accounting of the rents, for example with regard to areas of use and category classifications! Reduce the operating costs by introducing cost-effective sewer and wastewater charges! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The municipality of Vienna, the largest housekeeper in Europe, has a surplus of 800 million Schilling on operating costs for canal fees. In order to achieve an equal amount of work, Austrian property trustees have to work hard for many years. I am also sure that you will also need to take action with regard to the amounts of insurance deposited by Vienna Houses of the municipality of Vienna without a tender at the Vienna City Insurance or their Group companies. To conclude: On the occasion of a survey, a rental rights expert said: The decades-long socialist rental policy has done more damage to the Austrian household than two World Wars. There's nothing to add to that. – Mr Cap! Eat, it's less disturbing!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24781	Mr Brosz has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24808	The discussion – this is obviously due to certain atmospheric disturbances when I scream at the speaker's desk, but I'm just trying it again – about the commissions has now been a new example of history. [[Up-to-date calls for tenders]] – Yes, I know, but now I wait until it’s quieter, and then I look over, because otherwise I don’t get to talk at all. It's kind of difficult. The story about the commissions is a new example. They are actually sending out Mr. Neudeck from FPÖ, still renamed real estate broker, who is telling us something about the distresses of the real estate brokers' profession here. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Very credible!]] This is really amusing – the real estate trustee. Vocational status: Homeowner? [[Abg. Neudeck: Yes!]] Homeowners, good! And you don't have a house administration? - Not anymore, good! In any case, someone who seems to have a relatively clear interest in the home business and who here tells what difficulties the profession would have in reducing commissions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It must be noted that: I still have good thoughts about how it was when these six-month deadlines were introduced at the time. You didn't change the possibilities at the time. At that time, three months of commissions were paid for rent contracts for a term of six months – three months of commissions for six months! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: What profession do you pursue?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But only you paid it!]] - I didn't pay for it. There were numerous cases in each tenant's organization. At the time, it was foreign tenants who were fed off with six months of lease contracts and who, even because they depended on apartments to stay here at all, have become a dependency relationship. The exact ones came to the handcushion and were allowed to pay commissions for six months. These six - month lease contracts are no longer available to God. The fact is that what you are doing now – the reduction to three-year rental contracts, by evading the discounts, so that there will be no incentive for longer periods – will become particularly lucrative, as much as possible, and as large or as fast as possible – i.e. to rent again within three years. In this context, you have to say – because you always do so: only the buyers or the buyers to the sellers –: The commissions are required by both, and the commissions do not amount to 3 per cent, but twice 3 per cent. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you suggest?]] I think a reduction is definitely appropriate. You can certainly talk about the details. But here it was presented as if it were about the destruction of a profession when, especially in the case of temporary periods, one discussed how restrictions should be made – it is a difference whether a rental contract is concluded indefinitely or in time. In the case of temporary rental contracts, to allow as high commissions as possible is not necessarily a sensible solution – is it? It would also be possible to discuss restrictions on time limits. This is also contained in this request and was also rejected here in Bausch and Arch. I think it is very accurate and very precise to discuss what individual points it must be. The fact is that, on the one hand, the level was always a problem and, on the other hand, there were problematic transactions from the legal situation. You just need to look at that. I do not want to mention any names now, but I can add that to colleagues Neudeck, but at least at the time when I was working in the tenant consultation, there were enough cases where homeowners had re-acquired about broker firms via their own companies, even if their wife had, for example, acted as a partner. Through these companies, their own apartments were then transferred via broker offices, and also for their own apartments via a company in which family members were involved, the commissions were collected. It may not be in the interest of tenants to allow such possibilities. I therefore think that the commissions require urgent action in any case. We could talk about what the solution should look like in detail in the Committee. But if a rejection is made in Bausch and Bogen, I do not really see a way of having appropriate discussions at all. I find that very worrying!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24914	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24935	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The decision of the present request of Mr Bures and Mr Comrades to amend the Consumer Protection Act would achieve the opposite of what we want to say. It would again be a big step towards the regulation of the housing market, but only by means of the new housing law in 2000 has it been tried to mitigate the existing barriers. Finally, it attempts to bring simplification and clarity into the rental right, and the SPÖ proves promptly how little it is. – This attitude towards the opening of the housing market can only be described as anachronistic. The market must be given the opportunity to develop. The primary goal should be to create a housing market where tenants and landlords can meet as equal partners. We need to create appropriate framework conditions for this. The present application is subject to both the provisions of the Realtor Act and the Real Estate Real Estate Regulation. For example, he would lead to significant problems for tenants in the form of additional costs for houses with regulated rental rates. It can't be the goal to cause the tenants higher costs! Rather, the objective would have to be a corresponding cost relief. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats and Greens! Please finally put your exaggerated slope to regulation ad acta!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24977	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 91/A to the Building Committee. 10. Point First reading: Proposal by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Law on the Fundamental Right to Health (83/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25017	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25051	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The application concerning a Federal Constitutional Act to introduce a fundamental right to health was submitted by the green club for a long time ago. There was also a discussion between the political groups and a hearing here in the house, because this draft was quite a bit lost, at least by the health and environmental speakers of the other parties. – To date, nothing is at all. I place two large fields in the area of fundamental rights, in which further development would have long been planned. This is, on the one hand, the area of fundamental social and economic rights, because we are increasingly aware that mere rights of freedom are often not sufficient and that the principle of equality is interpreted in such a way that it does not really require the State or the States to establish equality, to seek and to support it. This is one of the major deficits. The other is the field of environmental fundamental rights. We have held a very long internal debate on what approach could be a target here. There are also opinions discussed and published in science, which, for example, want to anchor a fundamental right of future generations in the Constitution and in the sense of preventing today's economy, possibly robbery, from being permanently damaged or damaged by the rights of future generations. That's an approach. If one wants to do so, this is the more pragmatic, the more close, which I think can be a first step towards an even more fundamental protection of the environment and human health. The fundamental right to health, as we have requested, contains a subjective right for every person to prevent and, of course, to access information. I invite you not only to imagine what individual suffering could have been prevented if such a fundamental right had already existed, but also what huge costs could have been saved for the economies if the protection of fundamental rights in the field of health had actually been introduced with enforceability. An example would be the BSE scandal. In retrospect, they said: Yes, we have realized that the procedure for sterilizing and processing animal feed was inadequate. – There were already warning voices that said: Watch out, that's crazy, what's going on! I claim that I have already made the first requests in 1993. There were critical voices at the time, but they were struck in the wind, always: whether it is BSE, whether it is many environmental toxins, formaldehyde and the like, or whether it is also the large area of genetic engineering in agriculture and nutrition. The burden of proof is always imposed on those who make critical arguments. They say: Prove it's really harmful! – But this is usually not possible before a procedure is introduced. [[Abg. Neudeck: Turn of evidence load!]] This is a precautionary principle, and I think that the one who starts a dangerous activity owes the society proof that what he intends is not dangerous. Everything else leads to billions of damage. I would remind you that from among the government parties there are always critical sounds from the EU and again and again over and over again the mismanagement. Well, if there's no more massive mismanagement than putting the money into scandals, I don't know! With such a fundamental right, critics would have an opportunity to take advantage of the military, also to face state documents, to take into account files and, if necessary, to enforce their right in court. If it is serious to you with the protection of health, if it is serious to you with an efficient protection of the environment and with cost efficiency in the state administration, I invite you to discuss this draft seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25089	Mrs Pittermann spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25140	Mr President. – There is no longer any Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Now that you mention it...!]] High house! Ludwig Börne notes that there are a thousand diseases, but only one health. WHO defines: Health is a state of complete physical, psychological and social well-being, not just the lack of illness and weakness. Health is one of the most important goods for every person. That is why we agree with the basic intensification of this request. However, it raises the question of how far this application harmonizes with the Austrian catalogue of fundamental rights and the legal protection system, so that a thorough discussion of these rules is necessary. The Socialist Group wants a broad catalogue of fundamental economic and social rights, including the fundamental right to health. A health attorneyship is a good approach to safeguarding the right to health. The importance of research into causes and effects in the field of environmental medicine is a major challenge and certainly needs state resources, because industry suppresses almost everything that is contrary to its interests – if only I remember the discussion before the decision-making of the Tobacco Act, how the tobacco lobby put down the risks of nicotine abuse for the users, but also the involuntary contaminants! It is not even tried to determine the causality of nicotine abuse – I deliberately do not say "genus" or "use" – for morbidity and mortality. In no clinical or obductive diagnosis is nicotine abuse noted, even on the cancer statistics pages "Nikotin-Abusus" or "suffering fellow smoker" appears. On the occasion of a lecture on Chernobyl's Gau in 1992 by Professor Gale, you were aware of the power of the atomic lobby. With the exception of an increase in thyroid cancer, he denied any causality of leukemia or other malignant disease associated with nuclear power plants. I would like to remind you once again that by following the Tobacco Act, smoking in the couloirs is to be prohibited. Smoking in a building, not just public, violates the health integrity of other people. It is not to be seen that we Members of this House have to leave this House suffering from neuralgia, which is repeatedly exposed by open windows or ventilation of cold trains. It is high time that the Presidential Conference once decided in accordance with the law to create a smoking chamber with such a strong deduction that the non-smokers are not affected by health. [[Congratulations to Members Dr. Doppelmüller, Pepper, Mag. Sima and Mag. Stoisits.]] Why do some have to suffer so that others can enjoy their unhealthy desire and dependence? How do non-smokers come to be regarded as hostile and intolerant if they dare to object to smoking? But I wonder: How can the right to health be understood in relation to road and rail construction? Do those who already endure traffic have to be subjected to more stress each year because others want to live unlit? Are high-voltage lines or GSM masts to be banned, or is the supply of electricity or the possibility of telephoning a higher-quality asset? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Please don't give a lecture at midnight!]] – By reading it, it goes faster. If I don't read it, I need longer. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But this is shorter than Mikl leader!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] I can try it: I need about twice as long in free speech, but I have time, and we still have enough speaking time. We could try it! Do you have the shame to close at 8 p.m. because some want to have their peace, or do others have the right to enjoy the evening outdoors? How to decide in the event of conflict of interest, as in the case of controversial opinions? Health is the greatest wealth, says a proverb. Let's keep her. Let us protect people by a constitutional right, but let us discuss more details in the Committee before, so that health does not favour some and others disadvantaged and through a number of opinions and opinions and delays of some, which is important for many people and which increases their well-being, but then becomes indispensable to them. – Thank you for the attention at this time!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25218	The next speaker is Mr Rasinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25239	I will be brief about your right to health at a later hour. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the application is wrong in the content. He no longer brings health, but if you read it carefully, you can see it: new bureaucracy, a lawyer's office. Secondly, it includes health in environmental medicine. I'd like to close it again: I think it is better to do Sisyphus work in the concrete implementation of health issues, such as within the framework of what the government has done with the patient charter.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25278	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25300	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Just 35 years ago, the Commission on Fundamental Rights was set up to develop and improve the catalogue of fundamental rights. Apart from many long meetings, in which much was spoken but little said, not much came out. Five or six years ago, we discussed the same request here in Parliament at a first reading. I am willing to discuss the fundamental right to health, but I believe that fundamental rights must also be realistic that they must be feasible. If, as Mrs Petrovic intends, we have to exercise the right of every person, because a federal Constitutional Act provides that any kind of impairment of their health can be prevented by a person, I ask how that should be feasible in practice. You also have to ask yourself: How many harmful damage does society accept? For example, in connection with the construction of motorways, we know very well that many people will suffer an accident or can be damaged by exhaust gases. Even in the construction of high-voltage lines, we know that there are radiation emissions that, as we all know, do not contribute to health. Further examples would be the cell phone masts that are discussed over and over again, all the emissions and immissions, including the BSE story, the Smog who makes sick, the noise that makes us sick – how should we anchor this in a federal constitutional law if everyone has the right to prevent the impairment by all those things I have just cited as examples? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you are talking about "right to health", ladies and gentlemen, you also have to ask yourself what that means. Health, Mrs Petrovic, is the lack of disease, according to a definition. A right to the lack of disease?! – I think Mrs Petrovic has a medical phobia. Perhaps she wants to abolish the medical profession if, in the form of a federal constitution law, she demands the creation of a right to the lack of sickness among humans. It would, of course, be a fine thing, Mrs Colleague, if you could do that and if that were feasible in practice! That would be a great thing! Or, as the WHO says and as Mrs Pittermann has already mentioned, Health is a state of perfect physical, mental and social well-being. – We create a fundamental right that everyone has: a fundamental right to emotional well-being, a fundamental right to physical well-being and a fundamental right to social well-being. And if I don't feel the social well-being, I go to the Constitutional Court and sue it! With all the love of health and, above all, respect for health, I believe that we should leave it in the case of what is already, in part, laid down by this fundamental right in other fundamental rights, for example, in the fundamental right to life or in all environmental laws in which a partial right is already enshrined. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: This is about state...!]] We are happy to discuss this again in the Committee on Justice or here in plenary, but in practice we will not continue to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I see, I received applause here, because it requires the basic right to sleep with vehemence, and in this sense I finish my remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25349	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25371	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As the last of these medical baths – four doctors have spoken with them – I would like to ask you whether the first reading actually serves to understand something. - I don't get an answer. I think you didn't understand a lot. The fact that Pumberger says that the reason for this request is to abolish doctors is therefore to promote the right to health and the protection of health is a somewhat unfair argument. Also to say that this proposal concentrates only on the environment, testifies to massive misunderstandings. So please allow me to explain it to you once again – I might need an hour with you until you understand it, that may be already – but let's just do it: [[Congratulation with the Greens]] You may be confusing something here. I believe that the proposal is intended to mean: a fundamental right to better protection of health and a fundamental right to the best possible prevention of diseases. If you say that's stupid, then step in front of your voters and explain it to them! I do not think that we – whether we are doctors or not – have been elected to take disease simply as fate. Then, in Parliament, readers, gauglers, star-deuters would sit – and they could better help the sick. However, you should know that disease is not only fateful, but in many cases it has very clear reasons; in many other cases you need to contribute to such clarity in research. There, where illness has reasons, they are listed, and I could list you a number of studies. But since health policy in your government's programme only plays a role in the fact that sick people have to pay for their fate or for their indebted illness, I believe that your interest in this is not enormous. You should know that the environment is an essential factor in terms of disease, namely promotion and risk. What Mrs Petrovic wanted is to minimize the dangerous elements and install a test procedure that gives people something that can call themselves "truth". If you don't want to emancipate people and let them stay stupid, want to take the opportunity to inform and defend themselves, even then, please, step in front of your voters and tell him! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that legislation could be formulated which would allow the definition of safety requirements and which would also allow a product liability law to provide individuals and groups with the possibility of establishing causality chains through accompanying research, which could prevent disease. If Rasinger thinks that this would have too much to do with the environment, then it would be a disease picture where you would see the first happy laughs on the part of the doctors when someone is in the hospital, best in surgery or intensive care. Yes, these are the sick! However, you do not seem to be in great need to prevent or stop diseases. But I wonder: How do you want to reject this request without listening without dealing with it without knowing the studies? I tell you, I will make sure that you are aware of the reasons why you reject it. If you believe that such laws are only there to harm the economy or increase the industry to the toes, you are also mistaken in them! If you're deaf on this ear, I'll tell you something: A healthy economy needs healthy people! Do you understand that you can't run a business with sick people? – Kukacka shakes his head here too, he doesn’t understand! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Whether you're playing theatre, I'm not so sure! – But if you want an economy that almost lives on creating pills, building hospitals, producing breathing aids and hearing aids, then promote the economy and forget about this law! I quote here again a relatively common word. In the book of the "Small Prince", written by a French – and not by the Federal Chancellor – there is a sentence in which the fox says to the little prince: Only with the heart you can see well, the essential is invisible to the eyes. Give your heart a boost! Look for your heart more than marode shoulders! I can tell you something: Heart defects are much more rare than behavioural damage. Show your attitude and your heart and agree with the request, and listen to the second reading too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25443	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment 83/A to the Constitutional Committee. 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Peter Doppelmüllerand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Waste Management Act (97/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25482	We shall now proceed to item 11 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Doppelmüller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25510	Mr President. High house! This is the first reading of an application – an advance – concerning a Waste Management Act 2000, whose need, I believe, is undisputed in all political groups and which, hopefully, will soon be submitted by the government. Such an advance is therefore necessary, because it is essentially a matter of covering, in the future, non-hazardous waste at the level of collectors and waste handlers, according to a single system, so to speak, to get an accurate description of the total waste. We are trying this with a solution that is also viable and unbureaucratic for the economy, for businesses. I am convinced that the two coalition parties will also be involved, in particular the Freedom Party with colleagues Schweitzer as committee observer, who was always open to constructive solutions. I am convinced that Mr Kopf, a representative of a reasonable environmental-economic relationship, will also have a view here. So this is our request, and this is perhaps an intermediate to this Waste Management Act 2000 in order to provide us with unbureaucratic equipment here too. However, it is essentially about the Waste Management Act 2000, which, of course, I note a certain summity of the former Minister for the Environment, because our motion for a resolution has been behind this for a long time. However, I am sure that the new Minister will also come forward quickly, and I am convinced that through this objectively constructive level we will have a comprehensive revision, evaluation and a genuine waste management law 2000 with a strong focus on the thermal recycling of waste. I am looking forward to constructive cooperation, Mr Schweitzer and Mr Kopf!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25545	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Voluntary time limit: open downwards. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25566	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Doppelmüller! I absolutely agree with the objectives set out in your presentation – administrative simplification, improvement of control –; unfortunately, only your request does not really meet these two objectives. This is also confirmed by a study that is available to the environment, and which shows that the Wiener Modell, on which the whole is based, is unable to achieve the objective of control. Secondly, there are double-tracks inside here, because national legislation remains unaffected. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: This is a proposal from the Federal Environment Agency! You need to know that!]] The proposal is therefore not suitable for achieving these objectives. I am therefore confident, Mr Doppelmüller, that the soon to be expected presentation of the Ministry of Environment to the AWG 2000 will meet these objectives which you have mentioned here rather than your proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25602	The next item is the speech by Mr Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25623	Mr President. Peter, very briefly: At first glance, this request creates an additional administrative burden, a little more legal uncertainty, and, above all, the EU law to come is written in again – so it is not necessary. I believe that with the upcoming EMAS regulation, which is primarily responsible for de-bureaucratisation, as it seeks to cooperate with businesses, we will have to discuss something in the near future, which will make this request slightly unnecessary. But the arguments in the committee can still convince me of the opposite.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25651	Finally, Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25671	Mr President. High house! In order to make it short at the end of this evening – this morning, thanks for the correction –: [[Call the ÖVP: Tomorrow!]] We can gain a lot from this initiative proposal, but it is far too little for us. In this context, I would like to renew our fundamental criticism of the orientation of Austrian waste policy, that there are increasing amounts of waste disposal-oriented and not a prevention-oriented waste policy. In my opinion, the idea of waste burning on the part of the SPÖ has also raised a certain contradiction, namely the orientation of a single technology, including the landfill regulation, et cetera. In principle, we can recover a lot from the proposal for an initiative. We would only extend this fundamentally and are very curious about the proposals concerning AWG 2000, with me particularly interested in the position of FPÖ, which in the past showed quite massive resistance to this exclusive orientation to just one technology, namely waste burning technology. [[Abg. Haigermoser:... Waste disposal!]] I am eager to see how this will affect the AWG, especially with regard to the position of the coalition partner ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So have a lot of fun in the negotiations! We look forward to it. - See you tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25723	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept the motion 97/A to the Committee on the Environment. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-04-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25753	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 132/A to 137/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 644/J to 694/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for today, Thursday, 27. April, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting will begin at Question Time. This meeting is closed.
