ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2094	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open it at the scheduled hour, 24. November, 9 o'clock, 46. Meeting of the National Council. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Achatz, Fischl, Dr Glawischnig, Mag. Lunacek, Gaal, Grabner, Mag. Sima and arrogance. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2125	The Federal Chancellor has communicated a letter from the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of a member of the government. Mrs. Ferrero-Waldner will therefore be represented by Mr Scheibner at today's plenary session by the Federal Minister. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2146	I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2225	I would like to sum up the debate on points 2 to 4, 6 and 7, 8 and 9 and 12 to 14 of the agenda. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2255	Let's go into the agenda. In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Proposals for urgent questions and the like are not available to me. A day block time of 9 "Vienna hours" was envisaged. This would result in the following speaking times: SPÖ 176 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green 104 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That's what we decided. 1. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the Government Template (312 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the establishment of a fund for the promotion of the contributions of the independent artists to the statutory social security (K-SVFG) Government template (313 of the supplements): The Federal Law, which amends the Art Funding Act 1981 and the Art Promotion Act, on the Motion for a resolution 25/A (E) by Mrs Eva Glawischnig and others on social security for artists, on the Motion for a resolution 148/A (E) by Mrs Josef Capund comrades on the financing of social security for artists and the Amendment 214/A by Dr Eva Glawischnigund Comrades concerning an Artist Social Security Fund Act (KSVFG) (356 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2328	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. Is there a desire for oral reporting? This is not the case. We are therefore going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2358	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I wish you a nice good morning, although I could have imagined an even more beautiful morning, with a better template that we decide on. [[Calls: Tomorrow]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Even better? – Unmoderate!]] What is now available is too little in our eyes to be able to agree to it as the first solution. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But one step in the right direction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not even!]] In order to obtain the consent of the Greens, it would have been necessary to achieve at least a consensus and an agreement that this would at best be a small first step which must follow the further measures, namely a full artist social insurance. What is available here cannot be regarded as social insurance, as it has become a matter of course in our country for workers in different professions. What is available here is merely a grant to a pension insurance scheme, and also that in a way which, I think, would be considered unreasonable for the members of this House, for many other professional groups. I've got a little the impression that there's still swinging ideas like: Only a hungry artist, a hungry artist is a good artist, a good artist! Art must suffer! Art cannot have a secure, at least for the disease, an accident and even various risks of life. That is why we have failed to approve this draft in committee and will not give it here in plenary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This half-heartedness is in view of the fact that the debate on an artist social insurance did not start yesterday or yesterday, but now about 20 years ago, the more annoying and incomprehensible. Nor is it, as the Secretary of State always claims, that the implementation of the proposals introduced by my colleague Eva Glavischnig, for example by the Greens, would be unfinancing or impossible. Mr State Secretary! You know the calculations. Of course, social security, real social security, money, but I think that the Republic of Austria, in view of the past and the importance of the arts and culture sector, would be well advised not to fail to provide real social security to this professional group. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This milky grant to pension insurance, which ignores the other social risks sectors, naturally means that for all artists, the risks not addressed are still not covered. Artists can make sure that they do something private to themselves, but that will be easy and impossible for very, very many in view of their income situation. Let me add something at this point: We know from current European studies – even if they obviously don't interest you very much, because otherwise the sound level could not reach this height, but this may also be a debated sign of how this house deals with the situation of the artists in Austria –... Yes, so it is, Dr. Khol! [[Abg. Arbitrators: That can be enthusiasm!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer talks to the Bureau. Dr. Kostelka.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Look up to the president!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Van der Bellen isn't here either!]] But at least he doesn't talk and doesn't bother. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Your party president's claims are modest: He's not here, so he doesn't disturb you!]] [[Further calls.]] I would be very pleased if you, as group chairman of a government party, would lend me a little of your ear, because you still have the opportunity to propose, at least in the future, a real social security for artists, which deserves this name, and subsequently also to present it for decision. The field of arts, media and culture is one of those areas in which the employment of women is increasing to a very special extent. There are few professional sectors in which women already represent the majority of professional representatives. And I do not think it is a coincidence that this strong female presence, which is probably welcomed by everyone, goes hand in hand with a really inadequate, an under-average, a poor social security. For this reason, Mr State Secretary, and also because it concerns in particular the equality of women – an important European objective – this presentation appears to be so inadequate and so halfhearted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr State Secretary! You know art and culture, and lack of knowledge and probably lack of interest cannot therefore be predicted to you. To that extent, I am particularly surprised that you, who come from this industry, are proposing a solution to you seeing eyes and submitting to the House, which will in fact offer very many representatives of these professional groups no security whatsoever. In addition, in recent years, in the field of various employment conditions, it has unfortunately not been followed by the Green proposals, at least the course towards a uniform labour and social right and a certain minimum provision for all employment conditions. There has been a wild growth in precarious, atypical service and working conditions. A large number of artists and cultural artists are located in this grey area of social law. It then really often depends on the coincidences and also on the basic financial resources of the organisation, the institution, the supporter of an event, what the service relationship looks like, whether it is at all a service relationship, and, consequently, what social security is offered. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this context, I would particularly like to mention the field of performing art and film, for there it is so that, if the legal situation is observed, a job is necessary and required by law. Only, Secretary of State: That's really going to be an X for a U. We know, however, what it looks like in this sector that, in view of the partly drastic restrictions on funding, the money needed to bear the additional costs of full social security employment is simply not available. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, the members of these divisions are not independent artists. You know exactly that the IG network, that is, the social pot for performing art, already needs a much higher demand today – at least 8 million schilling – which will increase in the future. They decide on seeing eyes to regulate what we must say: The money for this is not available. It is not even a minimal increase to at least 5 million schillings. That would be just a drop on the hot stone anyway. However, we are in the situation that we know that the law cannot be done enough in these areas, but nevertheless the Republic of Austria also likes to refer to the achievements of the artists in these professional sectors. However, when it comes to the question of who covers social security, there is silence or friendship with an absolutely inadequate, already insufficient solution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll get you together. This draft is essentially a mogel pack, because the name "Artists Social Insurance" cannot be approved by the best will of this bill. The big question of health and accident insurance remains out of place. In addition, this solution represents a kneefall in numerous large exploitation facilities, of which the Greens thought they could make a contribution, because in the end they benefit from the excellent achievements of Austrian cultural creators. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, according to the design of the Greens, these great users, big chains like Libro, but also the ORF and others, would have been asked to cash. At They are restricted to satellite operators – this is in need of explanation. Why do you assume that these other major recycling facilities do not even have to make a small, separate, minimal contribution – the Greens have proposed 25 percent – although they are also the beneficiaries of the services? Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to end my remarks without mentioning a final point. He has to do with the warning, the critical function of art and culture, with one, if you want to, certain fire alarm function. This presupposes that artists who do not feel that everything in this republic is safe or completely harmless can open their mouths, without any danger of being threatened with restrictions or reductions in subsidies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As part of this debate, we have already had a few brief side-by-side discussions, discussions on the Blasphemy Paragraphs and other opportunities to deal with them. Again and again, the question is: Can we still promote initiatives or groups that may be critical of this federal government, which also find individual actions, actions, statements to be objectionable and commentable? Can we support them then? Is that legitimate? Can you do that? – Mr State Secretary! I think for many reasons from your side would be here...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2560	Mrs. Colleague! The Secretary of State has apologised for 4 minutes. I ask you to allow this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2575	Yes. He will be ordered to receive an opinion from him on this area of freedom of art and culture, especially if it is critical of government when it is critical of the statements and actions of this federal government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have just had a few commemorative and thoughtful celebrations in the last days and weeks, commemorating November pogroms of 1938, and in this context there have always been expressions of artists and cultural creators. President Fassleven knows that there have also been disagreements about such events, I say, about public contributions and funding. I'm thinking about the NS fund. Mr President. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Ladies and gentlemen, the government parties and also the Secretary of State. Do you not believe that many of the concerns and fears of the artists are necessary, important, in the sense of a positive development of this country, if it is possible that, for example, in magazines that are not published by the government, but for whose cover sheet at least, government members make themselves available, in which it is about meetings with councillors like Stadler, windwood, that in this paper under the heading "Senior Memorial" the person Heinrich Himmler with the lead of the function? As I said, I do not propose to the Federal Minister that he has known that he approves of this, but only the environment in which members of the government are moving today gives rise to great concern, to great criticism. And if artists and cultural artists are then sanctioned for showing this, then go into it again: Think about whether this would not be a very good social security and the greatest promotions!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2621	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2642	The fact that the relationship between art-makers and government is not the best is that we have been able to pursue in recent months, and this of course has its reasons. If one makes one feel that it would be preferable for artists to act in a conformative manner when it comes to promotions, then one may not be surprised, in the face of a self-confidenced scene, which can be very committed and celebrate the great successes with their artistic creations, but which, of course, also self-confidence as citizens in political developments, at the same time also comes into political criticism, if this relationship is so. The famous sentence: "You don't bite the hand that feeds you!", was not exactly a confidence signal with which to communicate to the artists, we wish that you were powerful, self-thinking citizens, but that was actually a very different signal, namely: We expect you to be grateful and you are aware that, if you want something, you must approach us respectfully, humblely, just as it was in the centuries before. This mentality is not a basis for a successful relationship. It was sent in advance once. The second – that will not be the topic today – will be the topic next week –: The development in the field of art promotion, or how it is even the material situation of the artists, has also not contributed to a successful relationship. You will have to bathe it out, and many others will feel it in the discussions anyway. The Secretary of State will certainly be able to contribute a lot to this next week. Today it is not about the social security of the artist. This is a great mistake, because the concept leads to error. What is available and what we have to decide today is a grant for a pension fund, I say now. That's more correct. We have been discussing for years the question of how to improve the social situation of artists, how to create more security here, and I admit that it was not a simple debate. Only the definition of who falls into the circle of those concerned was not easy. It was not easy to draw up how the funding bases can be made possible. There have been controversial debates, and there has been a long discussion, which has ultimately led to a high dissatisfaction among artists. I would like to add that we would have been ready when we were still in the government, because we would have a very comfortable solution that would have deserved the term "social insurance". In fact, accident and health insurance would have been there too, and this would have meant an improvement in material terms. But that was the resistance of the coalition partner at the time and, as I believe, also the resistance of the interest groups, which, as it were, lobbying with the coalition partner and which did not want to co-finance, failed. Nevertheless, one has to ask the question – and I have been influenced by many discussions with artists, with those concerned – whether it is not better, there are once again these 1 000 S, this grant to the pension fund, than nothing and again an extension of the discussion and debate, where ultimately the artists concerned stay on the track. From this point of view, this has to be discussed and assessed here today, and I have just said – and this is also noted in our debate in the Committee – that there are, of course, still points to be criticised in this proposal. As I say immediately, the main criticism point is, of course, that – and I have tried to present this in the first part of my speech – that this is, of course, too little. This is nothing but the grant to the pension fund and not anymore. It is therefore necessary, together with Mr Oellinger, to put forward a motion for a resolution on this matter, to try to extend it so that it really deserves the name Künstler Social Security. We must work on this, and of course we are prepared to participate constructively in this debate and to formulate it as an objective. That is why on this occasion I would also like to make the motion for a resolution tabled: [[Quoted print version removed]] Just from the experience of years of unsuccessful discussion – I say this quite self-critically – it would be important to set a deadline, right by the end of 2001 to develop a model for this – we are ready to work out this together with you – for which there is also a financing plan. This is also one of the weaknesses of the present proposal: that it is not at all certain how funding can be guaranteed. And there is also a bit of annoyance about the strong role of the Federal Chancellor, who conveys a little of the feeling that the role of the Federal Chancellor should be tried to influence the artists and their behaviour over this material graft. This is one of the points that we have to note critically, in addition to other points such as the definition of who is artists and entitled to claim, the disproportionate administrative burden – that is to say, the curatorium, the management, the artist commission et cetera –, the question of the valorization of the maximum limits, the question of the annual lower limit and many other points more. We have already brought this criticism into the committee's debate, we have already put it in advance, and I expect it to be – the Secretary of State has indicated in the Committee that this should and can be a first step towards improving the social security of artists – that the willingness to talk, the willingness to respond to the arguments of the opposition, is greater than it has been in the past, because it has been a little more closely addressed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary! They will also have read the criticism by the musician guild and their waiter Peter Paul Skrepek and the criticism of the IG theatre in the "Kurier". All of this is finely cleanly quoted in an article – and this criticism is justified. I think it still doesn't feel taken into consideration by some artists and not really addressed in their interests. And that is why there will still be a great deal of improvements and additional considerations. But I believe that this is a first real step that you should just take once – with all the criticism of individual points. I say to you, however, Mr State Secretary: We will not let go in the next few months! We will not let go next year! It will not be that one says today that the grant is now decided, and the next three years will not be discussed. That's where you'll get to know us! We will not let go of it and, together with the artists, we will exert the pressure necessary to ensure that this enlargement in this area of social security will really come about. In spite of our today's approval, you can really take poison, Mr State Secretary!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2741	The motion for a resolution, which Mr Cap has read, has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2766	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In May of this year I gave a speech on the subject of art in which I expressed my hope that the opposition would also agree with our book pricing law. I have pointed out improvements already made for artists, for example the possibility of tax deductibility of their revenues over a longer period of time. Contrary to the unknowings – I said at the time – the situation for artists during this new government era has not developed to the worse, of course, in another and in a new direction. Finally, I assured you that we would also deal with the social security of artists, and soon. As you can see: We have kept this word. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I now hear the objections – or I have already heard them in part – and do not want to avoid these objections, but I would like to stress, of course, first and foremost here the advantages and advantages of this draft law, which will come to the vote. There are these advantages, and there are few, apart from the first and most important – I quote here Mr Franz Morak State Secretary – that there is him. Secondly, it is quickly enforceable and, above all, feasible, financeable, and thirdly, there is legal claim of the artists to this contribution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The funds are provided by a fund established by the Federal Chancellor, subject to the control of the Court of Auditors, and, inter alia, by the re-introduction of contributions to the Kunstförderungsbörderungsgesetz, further by federal funds adjusted in advance annually. Most likely, about 50 percent – probably a little more – of the eligible art-creating entitlement to a contribution grant, whose maximum limit is 12 000 s a year, which nevertheless covers the full pension contribution for lower incomes. The grant is granted on request if the income is in a particular area, namely between an annual income of approximately 47 000 S from artistic activity and 270 000 S of total revenue per year, and if it is demonstrated that it is artistic activity. This evidence, of course, is also a point of discussion. Evidence must be provided. On the one hand, they are graduates of art universities, relevant schools, persons with relevant education, on the other hand, the artist's property is determined by an artist's commission composed of Curias for the respective disciplines. There are Curias for the individual art divisions, composed of artists. This is also very important: Artists determine artist property. And if there is a rejection, there is still the possibility to turn to an appeal cure. The fact that the contribution to the social security scheme – as Mr. Cap is of course right – is a contribution to pension insurance will, in the end, make little difference for the benefit of the benefit of the individual as regards the total income or the benefit of the individual. In particular, this clarification of the artist's concept is new, may make difficulties, and there are a few things in this context that one can discuss and discuss. I really want to talk to Tacheles: It may be that as an artist, as an artist, I do not receive my art and does not wear me. That may be sad, and that makes my life difficult. It may be that I am a known genius, or maybe I also know my own talent, or maybe the time is not ripe for me – there are many possibilities. But from the fact that I cannot live from my art, I cannot derive from the state's duty to receive, pay me social, health and pension insurance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So I see this more pragmatically: If I can't live on something, I just have to look after something else, a bread profession, regardless of my artistic activity, which, of course, remains free of me. I mean that absolutely not cynical and I know very well about the difficulties of the artist's time and energy problem. I can always regret and complain about this, but I will not be able to do so at the moment. What some artists want or expect, namely to become a staunch person, a receiving-become from the father state without means of intervention and influence, that is really pure wishful thinking, but not even my own and not that of many colleagues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I want to be able to get myself out of my work, so I want to be independent. That means again, I have to start with the production conditions and try to change them. For a genuinely sufficient art promotion, as it is partially desired, such an enormous flow of money would be necessary, which we do not have. So we don't need to talk about it. But if my artistic activity gets me very well and if it is in a certain framework, as I have outlined it before, then now – and this is the essential and important step – there is a way for me to apply for a grant to my insurance. That's what I really need to emphasize: No other population has this possibility. One has established this possibility, because the situation of the artists is a difficult one and its own, and because the artists live from what they create from their minds, from their brains, and that is not to be compared with other production conditions. The fund – I have already mentioned this – has been managed by various contributions. I can't go into details more precisely now, because there have been debates in the field of the economy in advance as well, how to get rid of the media – I mention the cable, satellite operators who make contributions. However, I would like to pay particular attention to the amendment tabled by us subsequently concerning the contributions from the Literary collecting society. In the future, there is a legal anchoring of the funding by the state-approved literary collecting society, which has already granted grants to socially in need of authors under certain conditions. The advantages of this draft to the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz once again summarized: There are contributions to statutory pension insurance with a maximum amount fixed. You can apply for anyone who is an artist or an artist whose income lies within a particular area. There will be a clarification of the structures, a clear definition of the contributions, a transparency of the procurement directives. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that this law can be described as a first step, only as a first step. But I claim and emphasize that it is the essential first step, and it is a big and important step in the right direction, a further step away from the planning stage that has lasted long enough. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] That's why I'm closing my speech exactly the way I started it, namely, with an appeal: This time again, I hope that you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, can agree to our draft – in clear awareness that there is still enough to do, also from the sides of politics, for those who create art and practice art in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2877	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e2898	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== After 30 years of social-democratic government participation and government responsibility, a blue-black coalition took over the government business for the first time in this Republic. For some 20 years now, every form of social security and the existential protection of artists has been a hotly controversial topic of discussion. There was no agreement for 20 years. On this subject, for example, former Art State Secretary Dr Wittmann said: only hot air and a lot of noise for nothing. The green EU member Echerer said that an artist social security must come immediately, and artists should not wait for another 18 years. Dr. Cap of the Social Democrats said in a press release: Künstlersocialeversicherungsgesetz is a necessity! Ladies and gentlemen! What do you want me to say? – It's done, we have an artist social insurance! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have a grant to pension in the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz! And also: Free creation of artists without basic fears of existence was only made possible by this blue-black government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Not acquisition by ideologies, but real existential security, which makes free art possible. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There he can learn very much, the Cap!]] The Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz exists. It exists for the first time, it came under our government. – And this is the positive and provisional first step of a long law that has been hotly debated for 20 years, which provides a better basis for the art-makers in Austria for the exercise of their profession and a basic safeguarding of their living conditions. The condition for receiving the contribution grant to pension insurance is the achievement of an income from artistic activity of 3 977 S per month. What does that mean? 3 977 S per month, which artists do we meet with this arrangement? Not those who do not need it, but those who do not need it: those who are not established, the young, those who need a grant, those who can only live then, who can only work. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another thing: We grant this grant entirely independently of any party political acquisition of the definition of the artist concept, because this is done by a separate body, determined by the artists. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] The definition of this concept takes place through Curias of various sectors: visual art, performing art, literature, without forgetting one of their contemporary forms: photography, film art, multimedia art, literary translation, sound art and so on. That is, the term "artist" remains open to all new sectors, to all new media. This fund is concentrated with 84.2 million schillings, which are applied by re-introduction of contributions from the Kunstförderungsgesetz, but also from the funds of the federal government. And something else, ladies and gentlemen: You can never blame us for withdrawing control, because this fund is subject to Court of Auditors, and thus you - all Members here in the National Council - have the control competence. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] We have thus set a milestone in the existential and social security of artists, ladies and gentlemen! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The rejection of this law by the Greens will, of course, have to answer them before their voters. Let us take a look at what the Greens have really committed to cultural policy measures in recent times compared to the blue-black government coalition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I've got a program here from an event that calls itself "opposition". This event took place from 10 to 12. November, in cooperation with the OECG, in cooperation with the GPA and with the Green Education Workshop, took place in the Künstlerhaus, the Kunsthalle, the Secession, the Depot and the ÖGB. And what is the purpose of this event? [[Abg. Oils: Say it!]] – Protest, resistance, civil disobedience in democratic societies, and there one teaches the techniques, the forms, the instruments. That, ladies and gentlemen, is Your cultural activity with this programme! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That was a reconnaissance!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What have we done in the meantime, against which this opposition is directed? - We worked. We worked in contrast to you. We have implemented the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz. We have passed a forward-looking book pricing law, which was even praised at the Frankfurt Book Fair as an example for Europe and which received full support from the Competition Authority on the margins of the Council of Ministers for Culture in Brussels. We decided to get rid of the exhibition fee and thus increased the presentation possibilities for young artists again. And we have brought about a tax relief of artists' income from the sale of their works. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say – and this is so clear and clear that there is no need for great reasoning – that: They drive people to the streets, and we take care of their basic existence and thus create the opportunity – what they always agree to us, but which is the only solution in this case – of a free art, independent of ideology, depoliticized! [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3026	The Secretary of State has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3047	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== January 2001 all independent artists are covered by the insurance of the industrial economy. The group of persons covered is quite inhomogene – it is already clumsy – but is also characterized by extreme income fluctuations. They have also led to the introduction of support from public funds in other countries. The government template under discussion to set up a fund to promote the pension insurance of artists, which could be presented in intensive work with great acceptance of the artistry involved in the discussions within a short period of time, takes this into account and tries to achieve the balance between the interests of the federal government and the interests of the artistry by distributing the responsibilities between the board of trustees for the use of funds and the artist’s curies for inclusion in the funds and a legal procedure. In this context, at the end of very serious negotiations, of very substantial negotiations, I would like to praise the work of my civil servants, who have found a solution here in very, very sacrificing debates, in self-reverential debates. I would also like to thank the representatives of the social security of the industrial economy and the representatives of the artists. It was a hard fight, it was a good fight, and I think he finished well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the basis of these discussions, a number of proposals have been made in the period from the review to the government paper, which have substantially improved this law. The main challenge of the artists was the withdrawal or at least the reduction of the lower income limit of 88 800 s per year provided for in the draft. I have lowered this lower limit to the lower limit according to ASVG, which is currently 3 977 S per month, which must be income due to the proven exercise of an artistic activity. I have also set up a contribution grant of 12 000 S per year, which fully compensates for the pension burden of the lower levels of income of the artists. The level of coverage of this contribution grant is still close to 30 per cent even to the upper income limit in this law and is 100 per cent at the lower income limits. The dynamic art and artist concept has also been introduced; it has already been addressed today. This is based on the fact that artistic qualifications are at least given with relevant higher education and that, on the other hand, artistic activity and the creation of works of art have been determined by a commission or by a commission of vocations. In addition – and this is a special joy to me, I must say – after nearly 30 years, the social funds of the literature have been put on a legal basis. After 30 years! I would like to quote here because I am very pleased that it was given by the representative of the LGG and, as I mean, an authority and an example as regards artist affairs and the administration of artistic funds. "The LVG regards the new law as a success in the social security of artists and at the same time as a necessity given the related burden on insurance contributions and further describes it as a logical conclusion to a development with the Sinowatz doctrine "Culture policy is continuation of social policy by other means" 25 years ago" – 25 years ago! – was "introduced." I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your support to this important social progress for the artistry, so that the efforts which have been ongoing for decades to design a financial model of social security for artists can be put in place, for the first time, a solution that is able to effectively help those concerned, especially in the lower income sectors. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3107	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: After that's gonna be something!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The new Secretary of State is much more successful!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Colleague! The question is in space: How will the pickerl become? The question has not been answered yet!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Please don't have such large "forschlostlorbeeren", everyone must have the same chances. Mr Ex-Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3169	Mr. Haigermoser! Your comments from the bank series are naïve as always, and I will not allow myself to answer them at any time. [[Call to the liberals: This is unheard of!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The collar stands you to the neck!]] Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! This is a step in the right direction, you stressed in the Committee, and I can agree with you. You've seen this step with realism, and it's really a step in the right direction. This is a positive development that needs to be recognized. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] And I don't want this to happen here from this place. However, you have proved that realism which comes to you as a Secretary of State, which has been beneficially different from the unrealistic statements made by the Chairmans of the Committee on Culture. [[Abg. Kiss: You didn't have it!]] To claim that the existence of the artists is insured with 1 000 S pension allowance is a presumption, because with 1 000 S no existence can be secured – let alone a guarantee of an existential basis takes place in any form. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] It is a contribution to the very difficult situation of the artists, who normally have to deal with a minimum income, but it is not an existential security. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: It already hurts that you didn't do anything!]] Let's leave it with what it is. [[Abg. Edlinger: Schweitzer! Sit down!]] It's not an artist's social insurance. It is a contribution to pension insurance and no longer! [[Abg. Großruck: Why didn't you do that?]] It's not an artist's social insurance! It's not an artist's social security law. It is a first step in this direction. It's a contribution to pension insurance, but it's not an artist's social security law, and it's not an existential insurance for the artists. [[Abg. Kiss: Question: Why didn't this come from Wittmann? What did the Wittmann do in his capacity as State Secretary?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is exactly the arrogance that the liberals bring into this discussion: to claim that with a grant of 1 000 s the artist was existentially secured. That means disavowing this entire profession, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kiss: The artist under your aegide...!]] This is not the way we want to go, because the artists as alms people have to say thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a self-confident professional group which has some difficulties in this social image and which I believe is supportive. 1 000 S – this is a lot of money for some artists. I take this into account, too, and I also believe that it is a step in the right direction, but the presumption to claim to guarantee existential security by doing so is absurd! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Were you not even State Secretary?]] I believe it is important to take this step. However, I go in line with the first speaker on this request: Why did you leave the collecting societies out? Why not also seek contributions from multinational corporations? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Why didn't you do that?]] . I presented this draft to you, because you were the lobbyist of these multinational corporations. You are the lobbyist of the rich, Lord! You, who get you 120 000 S State Secretary Pension, who will get you the same from the Industrial Union, also say to the pensioners that they should save. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: If you had paid 20 years!]] Strangely, when we said that the multinationals should be used, you were against it. You've torpeded that, you've prevented a real solution from coming up here. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] I still think we're on a right path. I find the collecting societies to be absurd from financing such a law. I also find it absurd that artists who play a major role at international level and therefore also reach high sales volumes of CDs in Austria can not be used to make a small contribution to securing the existence of Austrian artists who are not so well deserved. Unfortunately, such a scheme has not been implemented. But we all know that you have become the lobbyists of the big corporations, the rich, the pens and have left the "little man" on the track. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] In particular, Mr Gaugg, I believe that the vote on the budget accompanying legislation yesterday was really embarrassing. Why didn't you vote? – Because They have insisted that your social conscience does not allow this if you still carry the money behind the founders and make the rich richer and poorer the poor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Your rich are in the ÖMV!]] Then it is also claimed that one can secure an existence with a grant of 1,000 s. That's pure presumptuous. You are the representatives of the "little man" – and your "little man" is supposed to live with a thousand s! [[Abg. Dr. Povysil: What did you do as State Secretary for the "little man"? What did you do during this time?]] I think that's a presumption. I believe that you will get this path evened by the citizens, just as you will get it evened by the artists. Nevertheless, it is a step in the right direction and will find our agreement because 1 000 S is more than nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3437	Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Wittmann! A short question: Is Wittmann rich?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mr Wittmann does not even take himself seriously again!]] – I call Mrs Baumgartner.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3483	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to express my express congratulations to the Secretary of State from this point of view on his determination and his persistence, because at last there is a request for a social security law for the artists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the essential and, above all, the high-quality difference to my previous speaker, who is talking a lot, very many analyses, very many studies – I have read in his papers that he has ordered four studies on this subject alone – and has made very many explanations of intent here, but he has never succeeded in having a request to do so here in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, this happens in times of budget consolidation. Despite budget consolidation, it is important for this Federal Government to take a first step towards securing artists after 30 years. This is again an essential difference to my previous speaker, whom I have to resist, that the artists do not have to say thank you, but that the artists have a legal right to social security under this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: With the reds, the artists have had to say thank you!]] Nor is it, Mr Wittmann, that it is a presumption to say that the 1 000 s would be a safeguard. These 1 000 s are a security as they secure the situation of the artists in old age when they secure contribution times. And that's essential! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention the following: Mrs Petrovic said it was not even a first small step. – I mean, it's a huge step because it's finally a step, and it's finally moving in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap has informed us that you have always followed the situation of the artists. We have also seen that she has always been followed – but out of the chair! Unfortunately, nothing has been done, Mr Deputies. Of course, the template can be criticized. Of course, the artist concept is a narrower than in the original templates, but it is a dynamic artist concept. It is crucial – and I would like to stress this too – that: Artists and not officials decide on the concept of artists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As regards the criticism of the administration, I think that one should once let the fund become reality, look at the administration, and then one can express criticism of the administration, but one should not attempt to create a serious security for the artists already suffocating ahead by calling the administration too large and too immobile. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is actually a "dynamic artist concept"?]] Of course, this law does not satisfy all the wishes – that is of course – but it is specifically formulated, and there is a request. I am glad that the Secretary of State has presented a draft within one year. I am also glad that the SPÖ has settled in the last second and will agree to this law. This, ladies and gentlemen, I would actually expect from the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say that I congratulate the Secretary of State on his persistence. We will be happy to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3586	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3634	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! It is already remarkable how former members of the SPÖ now, as they are in opposition, appear here. I remember Mr Prammer's appearance yesterday. I have repeatedly asked her how she now, since she is no longer a minister, views her time as a minister, and I have also asked her what she can actually do with certificates of performance. – The answer was brief: She has not been able to list anything due to her era as a minister. When I heard Peter Wittmann here today, I would have expected him to say: Friends, when I was still State Secretary for Art and Culture, there's that, this and that happens. We have ensured the artists' security, we have made an excellent law, which also ensures the artist's evening of life. Mr Wittmann! What did you do as Secretary of State? How does your activity report look? What have you assumed, implemented and decided in the last four years? – Peter Wittmann! No minute have you been able to use to point to your successes. Peter Wittmann! I looked at the success lists. Peter Wittmann! Your success list is a white leaf, it's nothing on it. [[Abg. Kiss: White!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Signed!]] In view of that, are you criticizing a government that within a very short time has achieved what you've been doctoring about and not causing anything?- Oh, my God! – Peter Wittmann! I prefer 1 000 s more than nothing! That's fact: For each one, 1 000 s must be much more than nothing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this government there are 1 000 s, with Peter Wittmann there was nothing. That's the big difference. The FPÖ had to come to the government to ensure that artists were socially insured so that at least once a social security for artists would be started. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The world is so simple!]] But you are not alone, as there was still Mrs. Hawlicek, there has been the very unsuccessful Rudi Scholten, and of course there has been – as a worthy successor of these two – Peter Wittmann: Generations of red cultural politicians have done nothing. The FPÖ, so often and precisely rejected by you as an artist, has achieved in nine months what you have always talked about. [[Abg. Oils: The FPÖ – or who?]] I can recall that you asked the Secretary of State in the Committee what the difference between the SPÖ proposal and the FPÖ/ÖVP proposal is. He said: The small but fine difference is that this government has not spoken but acted quickly. – The Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz exists! That's the small but fine difference. Now I would like to dedicate my colleagues Cap and his friends, even though he prefers to go out. [[Abg. Swimmling: It's really not very exciting what you say!]] Colleagues, Mr. Muttonen, was also involved in this kind discussion, which showed that there is on the one hand a very intense relationship between Public Netbase and the SPÖ, but on the other hand – I have found this in the meantime – a very intense relationship between Public Netbase and the Greens. Finally, one of the employees will now join you on the Vienna list and probably also join the municipal council. And that's also the question: Must be adapted now – that was in this... – moment! [[Call the greens, "And"?]] [[Abg. May. Muttonen: What does that mean? "And"?]] Listen to me! – Do artists have to act under this government now? Do artists need to appear grateful and humble in order to be promoted? – Please don't hesitate, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Muttonen: That's what Mr. Landes Captain said!]] It only needs to be seen once if what happens under the cover of "art" is still art. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let's take a look at this! Let's look at that, and judge for yourself whether the art is! Her friends, Mrs. Muttonen, from the Public Netbase complain and say: "We are a good example of the way from diffamation to criminalization and schickreinierung zur Ruinierung", says Becker." – That was in the "standard" of 19th. September this year to read. Let's look at your friend Becker and see what he's doing! [[Abg. May. Muttonen: What does this have to do with art?]] I picked this out. Public Netbase, Internet provider: "Austrian Web Resistance Awards 2000: 50,000,- for the best resistance activities in the network". The jury consisted of: Gabriele Gerbasits, Gerald Matt, Eva Rossmann, Georg Schöllhammer and Franz Schuh. [[Abg. May. Worm: What does this have to do with art?]] Background: "Over the past few weeks, Public Netbase t0 has become annoyed with political distress that threatens the renowned and internationally well-respected network art project throughout its entire existence. The termination in the museum quarter, but above all the repressive handling of the new federal government with the critical institution, which, through its activity as a non-profit provider as well as through its artistic production, makes an indispensable contribution to the variety of opinions..." and so on. Public Netbase thus feels threatened by this government in its existence. Now let's take a look at this artistic work by Public Netbase, which is looking for the best ideas and which is a prize for those who present the best with which this government can be brought to ruin. What happens when they call for the "Next Tort – Resistance! No quiet hinterland! Class fight! Private or public, we get you – no politician can feel safe in front of the next cake!" - Public Netbase. But that's still the "enemy" that doesn't mean that bad story. "The Austrian migration regime, which costs hundreds of lives each year, is supported and supported by the vulture. Unlike Germany, there is no need for neo-Nazis to kill migrants in this country." - Public Netbase. And the call is made: "No peace with Austria! No Holidays in Nazi Country!" – These are the friends of Public Netbase, Colleague Muttonen! [[Abg. Murauer: Bravo!]] Do you want me to repeat it? [[Call to the liberals:Yes!]] – "No peace with Austria! No Holidays in Nazi Country!" – Is art on the net? [[Abg. Young: Beautiful friends you have!]] Last but not least: Mr Rumpelstilz, the sniffer, when it comes to data, is unfortunately not here. Mr Pilz may ask how Public Netbase comes to the internal data of the Federal Police Directorate Vienna, for example, when it comes to informing colleagues about the demonstrations of the demonstrations. How does Public Netbase come to all these data that are immediately published on the web, so that the demonstrators know how the police are trying to deal with the demonstrations? – There is ongoing reporting on what has been done in internal communication at the Federal Police Directorate Vienna, the District Commission Internal City and the Security Department. There is ongoing information about the provider Public Netbase. Collaborator Pilz has work enough to investigate how his friends come to this internal information. Mrs. Muttonen! With culture, cultural work, it does not have to be done if one wants to overthrow this government with all force, if one calls the country of which 8.5 million schilling is being funded "Naziland", and if one claims, there is no neonazis here, because the government is killing the migrants. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] This is culture, as you understand it. – We understand something else among them!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3861	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3891	The color is always red, Mr Haigermoser. – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But hopefully there are no hammer and no sickle in the color!]] Mr State Secretary! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! Now back to the artist social insurance: I am glad – I would like to say this at the outset – that in this law – you have talked for a longer time, Mr. Schweitzer – it is stated that the concept of the artist is judged by a kind of Curia made up of artists and not politicians. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Say two sentences to that!]] That's, I think, a good thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: A sentence!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] This federal law is called "Federal Law on the Establishment of a Fund for the Promotion of the Contributions of the Independent Artists to the Legal Social Insurance". That sounds bulky, it's bulky and complicated. In my opinion, the short title, "Künstler-Socialversicherungsgesetz", should be referred to as the "Künstler-Sozialversicherungsgesetz", even more striking – now it is even more complicated – because it is not yet an entry. Having already discussed this for 15 years in Parliament – and it has already been mentioned in the Committee – the proposed establishment of a fund is a first important step, but only a first step and not more. We Social Democrats will agree to this bill, even if we share many of the criticisms expressed in the run-up. This begins with the finding that this fund does not, of course, correspond to the project of an artist social security scheme, but is mainly a pension grant model, and therefore an artist social security continues to be in the room. How many artists are entitled to claim and how many will benefit from this fund is also unclear. The assumptions in the submission and the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance in the review are miles away from each other. Therefore, I think it would be good and important for all of you to support this motion for a resolution so that we can discuss and evaluate this law once again at the end of 2001 when we have the figures available. A problem is that there is not only a ceiling, which is very narrow by the way, but also a lower limit, among which an artist should not fall, otherwise he will not get anything. It will become interesting how the artist concept will be interpreted in practice. You'll have to look at that. The fear of associations that bookmakers will then again be led as artists, because the old artist assistance fund is to be integrated, while completely new art forms would not be recognized, is not completely erased. One will have to look at how this has proved to be true in practice. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Professional students have been enabled to apply for their own scholarship for the final stage so that they can interrupt their job for their diploma thesis. However, there was very little money available for the pot of this scholarship at the time, and so the law was fairly rigorously formulated, so that not too many requests. If I remember quite well, however, that was relatively few lines compared to this act of law. I wonder, Is it not unusual for a maximum of 12 000 S that an artist can get per year and for 75.6 million Schilling fund donation to write such a large rule with 31 paragraphs and 15 pages exclusive explanations? Are fears that artists or supposed artists could hide money, the reason for it, or is it the official mold that lets the mountain cry and bears a mouse? The fund manages – I just mentioned it – 75.6 million schilling. 7.3 million schillings are estimated for the fund management. This would mean that the administrative burden would be almost 10 percent. If you can believe the Federal Ministry of Finance, he could even be up to 20 percent. In all cases, the administrative burden will be very high. I am surprised that the gentlemen and ladies of the FPÖ do not wonder about it and that they do not disturb it. – When you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, were still in the opposition, you have always disturbed a too high administrative burden of social security providers, and you have wondered about the 28 parallel social security institutions and have strongly criticised and weathered about them. On average, however, the administrative burden of these social security schemes is only 5 to 6 percent. For example, the Tiroler Landeskrankenkasse has only 4 percent administrative burden. I am already aware that the higher the administrative burden, the smaller the insurance institution – and this fund is a much smaller one. I just wonder if, in cooperation with another State insurance company, there could not have been significant savings by means of synergies. All you can save in the administration, ladies and gentlemen, is directly to the artists, and this is important, because that should actually be the purpose of this scheme. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, artists are supported in their pension provision, and that is something we Social Democrats have long wanted. This law, however, can only be a beginning, as has already been said. In Germany, there is already a large-scale social security scheme, which also deserves the name "insurance". Despite many concerns and some rejections in the opinions, we will vote in favour of the law. As I said, we regard this as an entry-level law on comprehensive social security for artists, and in this sense we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3967	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e3987	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! A few comments to my previous speakers, first to Col. Wurm: The degree scholarship has been extended and increased. So we've made an improvement. On behalf of Mr Schweitzer, concerning Public Netbase: I have also been able to follow the last appearance in the "Future Workshop". I don't want to interfere, I don't mean to judge his work as art or not art, but his appearance was, I mean, no point for him, and the way he defended his claim to the director of the museum quarter was not such that one could be convinced to leave. [[Abg. Kiss: Who?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Becker, by Public Netbase!]] At the time, I was able to express the attitude of the People's Party: The so-called third-party users will have to put themselves in line with new, old, inter-occupied and established, of course internationally renowned and well-known artists when it comes to who, as a third-party user, as a new media artist, is to move into this museum quarter as a new media artist. So there will be no preference. - So much to this point. Another comment to the ex-Secretary of State Wittmann: Of course you can say that the "little man" has stayed on the track. You apparently fought for the "great man" until you stayed on the track with your proposal and had to withdraw to the opposition. [[Congratulations to Mr. Prince, Mag. Frieser and Dr. Wolfmayr.]] I mean, it's a step forward that we have this arrangement for the artists, and we should be worthy of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To colleague Petrovic – but probably she is not so interested in it anyway –: "IG network increase" means: (a) It depends on the text of the contract, b) it should not again be possible to see a new theatre subsidy instead of an artist subsidies. Then there's a political remark: Often it has been said that artists have something like a "fire detector function" and that artists and government would have a problem relationship. I've met a lot of artists lately who said: I'm enough of this "commitment to resistance" now! I've got enough! I would like to get rid of this socialization! And another comment on "burning": This happens to me a little bit like when a child calls two, three, four times: "It burns, it burns!", and every time the fire brigade comes. But if it really burns, then nobody hears it anymore. – I want to preserve the real fire detector function as a last and sensitive function of the artists, but not as a loud screaming. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Povysil.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also quickly clarified what a dynamic artist concept is: the opposite of the static. Read on in the emancipation philosophy! There can be You see these polarities. - So nothing new. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What does this mean "dynamic"?]] – The opposite of static! This allows you to understand the openness of the term and the claim! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: "Dynamic artist concept" – what does that mean now?]] – We can clarify this in a symposia. You can make proposals to that effect. In any case, it is a progress towards the static. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not an explanation!]] Ladies and gentlemen! An important addition because cable/Sat operators and literary collecting society were addressed: If they did not have the artists as existential providers of art and cultural products, as a broadcast product, they could not send either. In that respect, I think it is good that, despite all the initial concerns, one has remained in this solution to the social security of artists. On the current occasion, an important point from here – and I hope that many of my colleagues from the National Council support me – is: On Sunday, the Upper Austrians, especially the Linzers, decide whether they want a music theatre or not. I hope they're good at making the right decision that they're going to go and say yes to the music theatre. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Bravo! Very good!]] This is the dynamic art concept that does not say: either bridge or culture, but rather: This is the culture that sees itself as a culture and theater – and, if necessary, as a bridge! [[Abg. Ollinger: The "dynamic art concept" is that the liberals are against it!]] We work for this conviction, and I support Linz and his theater! That's my concern! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: "Culture and street" is called the foreign exchange!]] From this point of view, I also thank Secretary-General Morak for the initiative on this artist social insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: This is really not necessary what you are doing! That's really unheard of!]] I would rather be a small step and a small step than waiting for a solution that does not come for 30 years. On the basis of a word by Michael Scharang, I say to Mr State Secretary that you have proved a happy hand with this! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That wouldn't have been necessary!]] You and your team like to live!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4204	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4225	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Further calls and calls between the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (in the direction of the liberals) Why don't you listen to the government party?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's unlikely!]] Enough of the Linz music theatre, ladies and gentlemen, back to the artist social insurance! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: But that would be an interesting topic!]] The government coalition has carried out a huge work programme, has hit the sleeves high, and much has happened, especially in the arts and culture sector. There are, as you can see, discussions in this area – and for the benefit of these areas – over and over again. A friend of mine told me yesterday about artist social insurance: You're finally doing something, not just talking beautiful weather! – End of the quote. [[Abg. Swimmling: Yes, one who is friends with you!]] The government template on the Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz demonstrates how important art and artistic work is today. Self-employed artists will receive a promotion of pension contributions within a certain income range. Social balance is guaranteed by ensuring that the 1 000 S per month granted as a grant covers the full amount of pension contributions at the lower end of the income range. The greatest possible objectivity is ensured by the fact that artists decide on artists in specialistly occupied Curias. We have heard about the dynamic artist concept in the government template. The government coalition is open to new developments in art and wishes them too. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is "dynamic"?]] There's no room for discretion. If the requirements of the claim are met, then the artist's right to grant benefits consists of the fund. The Appellation Curia in the Künstlerkommission ensures that all entitled persons also receive the grant. – In this context, Dr. Cap, I would like to say: I was very pleased about the constructive discussion in the Committee, and I am also very pleased that you and your group are taking part in this government proposal. [[Abg. Kiss: But Wittmann said the opposite!]] The government's proposal to amend the Art Promotion Act is also very important, although less aware. It is important for young artists in Austria that the federal government supports the purchase of works of art by means of subsidies. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From conversations with artists, I know that artists in Austria want to have a brand new kind, through which many Austrians can also feel as small sponsors and where many Austrians can join them, even with small amounts. Artists wish that art sponsorship in Austria will become more attractive by expanding the tax opportunities for private and for entrepreneurs. Personally, I am d'accord with Mrs. Dr. Wolfmayr, I wish you this too. As a Viennan a few words about the museums: It's a lot of work. Ms. Dr. Povysil, the chairman of the Cultural Committee, talked about the extension of the Federal Museums, about hoped-for and expected synergies from the collaboration of KHM, Theatermuseum and Volkskundemuseum. A principle decision on the distribution of the museums of the city of Vienna was adopted on Wednesday. The title: "Museen der Stadt Wien – Neu", the goal: Synergies in operational management. I agree with the liberal cultural speaker in Vienna, Mag. Heidi Unseiter: Targets must be clearly defined, clearly quantified and evaluated afterwards. It is also necessary to draw conclusions on any price adjustments. In the light of the recent statements by Professor Seiel on the KHM's financial needs, this cooperation of KHM, Volkskundemuseum and Theatermuseum must also be evaluated accordingly. I am very much in favour of the exclusion and the creation of synergies. However, it must not be at the expense of the scientific tasks of the museums, which must be fully guaranteed. Research and basic research must be guaranteed, especially at the scientific museums. Art needs audience. It is important that the museums understand themselves as a service provider. Museums must meet the audience. Museums cannot reach the audience physically. Museums as service providers must reduce the thresholds and facilitate access. In this context, I also think particularly of the museum quarter, the planned modern ticketing system that the boss Wolfgang Waldner wants to introduce. As a Viennan, I find it very important that the head of the Kunsthalle, Mag. Leidl, in a small-scale way, countercarries the idea of a common ticketing system of the museum quarter. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is much to be done in the arts and culture sector, and a lot has happened in the last ten months of the government coalition. Let us all continue our joint successful work: for the benefit of culture, for the benefit of art and for the benefit of the artists in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4355	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. Same time of speech: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4376	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Federal Government has taken a new course of economy and sustainable budget consolidation. It will no longer be the same as in the past among social-democratic finance ministers that on the one hand, a burden package will be attached to one another, but on the other hand, the government debt will still explode. From this point of view, too, the new Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz is to be seen. It is, as has been stressed several times today, a first step after many years of unsuccessful negotiations. An unwarranted witness, Professor Brunner, has this situation also in the "standard" of 6. September described as follows – I quote –: "I had the opportunity, through many years, to pursue the many fruitless debates about an artist social security between artists' representatives and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Finance in state budgets. It was sat and talked endlessly, and ultimately all attempts failed that the payers were never found. The unsuccessful attacks of Morak predecessor Wittmann are certainly still in memory." - Quote. That was the situation before this government... [[Call to the SPÖ: This is nonsense!]] That's no nonsense, Mr. Colleague. Read on, inform yourself, then you know what happened before this government decided to set a fresh start in this area too! The situation of the state budget does not allow a model according to the German model, as we all know. That would not be eligible for funding. However, I would like to focus briefly on another issue, namely the supposedly so critical attitude of artists against the new Federal Government, which Mr Cap has also mentioned. They all know that there have been discussions in Carinthia some time ago, how to react to a head of state Dr. Haider. There were some who even wanted to emigrate. Then again there were some who wanted to stay in the country and resist – whatever that may mean in a functioning democracy. – However, nothing is known of a mass extract of artists or non-artists from Carinthia. There have been similar considerations in certain circles when, in February of this year, the new Federal Government was formed. Today we know that the storm lay in the water glass and that one could say with Shakespeare: A lot of noise for nothing. Even artists criticize that individual reactions were immeasurably overburdened. As an author who is sure to know all of you, for example, has forbidden the performance of her pieces in Austria in order to express her protest, another writer – and one could say, perhaps substitute for the majority in Austria – has strongly contradicted her. ==References====External links== September was the following quote to read – I'll tell you, listen to me for half a minute! –: [[Call at the SPÖ: Who was that?]] "You already have to put on a proper portion of vanity in order to be able to announce, you forbid the performance of your pieces in the country, as one of the main activists did without asking yourself what such a announcement means, how far you must have come to do in his firm self-confidence as a representative of whatever, not to expect the possibility that this might not be of interest to anyone..." – citation. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Burket.]] The one who has said this so clearly and with that, I mean, put it to the point is the well-known writer Norbert Gstrein. [[Abg. May. Posch: What did he write?]] His statement was published under the title "Die fiery Feuermelger – An Austrian Author-Farce". - I don't think there's anything to add to it. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4440	The next speaker is Mrs Burket. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4501	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz, which Mrs Glawischnig called "half-hearted solution" in a broadcast, is a milestone on the way to social protection for artists and cultural creators – a milestone! – where competition was not great, because nothing has happened in this area, as we have already heard in the past. This artist social insurance fund contribution is a milestone in the cultural field and shows the image of a government that makes a policy that is from an irresponsible debt mountain on its way to a modern, slender, innovative state that offers social security for all its citizens alike. Also in the field of artists and art, even there, the market ultimately regulates supply and demand. A piece that nobody wants to see will not find an audience, may the artist have tried so much. [[Abg. Schwemlein: Do you think that was different in the past?]] Images that nobody buys will remain with the artist, and he will have to think about what he does with his pictures. So it's with movies that nobody wants to see. Col. Wolfmayr spoke to me out of her soul today when she said: Even if one leaves all freedom to art and does not dare – and I do not do so out of too much respect for art and culture – to evaluate it, every artist must be so realistic as to judge whether he can live by his art or not. [[Abg. Oils: It's unimaginable! If that were the case, there wouldn't be any art!]] And it is certainly not the task of the state to obtain an artist who is unable to live by his art. It will have to ensure that it also has other sources of revenue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's just the reality! And that you don't have much on the hat with realities, that's well-known, isn't it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] A state that does not hold its citizens in immoral dependence with party book policy, the economy of friends and the irresponsibility of subsidies, that is what we imagine; a state that creates the conditions for free, powerful citizens who make their life choices on the basis of the conditions and their benefits offered to them. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Help, where necessary, yes, but not according to the past practice of rewarded benevolence. After all, everything you submit to us has been plowed by the Social Democrats all these years – one has to say quite clearly. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Give an example!]] This was done under the motto: FPÖ enemies preferred or Austrian slanderers especially welcome. I just think that a Mr. Peymann, who was a particularly close friend of the Social Democrats, was wasting his genius with advertising for Austrian coffee at the moment. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Is this happening to you right now, or have you written it down?]] - No, I added that because I just thought it was. . Whoever does not put Mr Mortier at the door to his statements against our country and its citizens should not be here as an expert in culture. We create a basis for the support and social security of artists who need this support without making them state artists who are dependent and probably on the state. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Stoisits – unfortunately she is not here –: It is not § 188 that hinders or gnaws artists, as you fear it, but dependencies that gnaw the artists. It captivates the artist not to be free in his decision-making and design possibilities. The Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz is not yet perfect, we know that too. But it is once a base on which we can continue to work. And unlike your years of inactivity, it is a step in the right direction. We are therefore rightly proud that a suitable basis could be created in such a short time, including funding and implementation. The fact that you are still too few will not bother us any further, because we are acting with responsibility for all the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4605	The next speaker is Mr Sevignani. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4623	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I begin with a quote from Giorgio Strehler, the director of the Piccolo Teatro in Milan, who said in 1993: A society that does not love and appreciate their artists is sick! Ladies and gentlemen. What the artists of Austria dreamed of for years under the responsibility of SPÖ and State Secretary Wittmann, is now realized by the FPÖ/ÖVP coalition. Next year, the self-employed art workers will be insured in health, accident and pension insurance. The so far infinite history of "Artist Social Insurance" finally finds a good conclusion. There are subsidies through the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz. This will provide a socially acceptable solution. Ladies and gentlemen, that means that Austrian artists, especially the unestablished artists, can afford the insurance as well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] ==References== In January 2001, self-employed artists are included in compulsory insurance. You will receive a government contribution of up to 12 000 S annually. A minimum income from artistic activity of around 47 000 S is required, and grants are available up to a maximum income of 270 000 S per year. It is calculated with about 12,000 artists in question. In contrast to the red-green proposals, our project can be financed and managed. We prove by this law that we are aware of the high social importance of art and the art-makers in our country and that we are aware of their importance. Ladies and gentlemen! Maintenance and preservation of art are a good for which there is no market price. Of course, we know that the red-green opposition does not fit our commitment to the artists into the stall; it was red-green, which the artists took politically over years and, as an ideological spearhead, heated and abused against the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, the artists and artists of Austria are taught.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4675	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4694	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A few words about Collaborator Brinek, who also gave something to the theatre in Linz for the best. Today we discuss the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz. There are speeches from all sides that it is the first right step. It's all right, but it's too little. A few can't go with you at all. – The artists now receive a grant of 1000 S. In view of that, you stand out here and say: Everyone should go and sign and support the popular desire – knowing that 2 billion schilling of tax resources is necessary for this theatre with 1,000 seats and that it will cause a daily departure of 700 000 s in the future. [[Abg. Murauer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Big truck: 1.3 billion schilling!]] Mrs. Brinek! I wouldn't take it that easy, and I wouldn't say, That's all a ghmahte Wiesn. It is already a scandal that preparatory work has been carried out, although there is a signature action and about 40,000 Upper Austrians want a popular survey on it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That was decided in the Landtag!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: unanimously!]] There are, of course, unanimous decisions. But the question of investments in the cultural sector is very sensitive, and we know international examples where it goes without tax money, with sponsoring that culture receives itself. More about the template: Mr Petrovic wishes to make a better proposal. It's too little and more like her. She thinks art must suffer that it is unreasonable for her and more like her. I'm just wondering what it's like, that under a red-green domination in the artist's area, it's going to be legendary, slumbering scandals. Mr Reitsamer told something about Christmas and fairy tales yesterday. [[Abg. Silhavy: That was before yesterday!]] - It was yesterday. Once a radio speaker had been colored in purple wool, who was temporary his karges existence as "Ö3 alarm clock" specialist. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Is this the story of the cramps now?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] As time went on, he went to the alarm clock, and so he had to be cared for or disposed of. They needed a replacement. How good that there are friends, relationships and lobbyism, protection and more. Former Secretary of State Wittmann, who did not provide social security for the artists, has kept silent. Mr. Vrannitzky has been silent. Mr Klima has been silent. But thank God the media are not silent. Rudi Klausnitzer, until then known as a radio speaker, became a theatre director in Vienna. - So far, so good! The only qualification he brought was I think he was a protection child. That's all I can say. Professional qualifications are not yet recognizable. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Isn't it?]] For this, he is paid a legendary Gage of 9.3 million schilling annually. 9.3 million Schilling, Mr Kostelka! You'll have to sink in front of trouble if you see your salary bill! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Kulturbanause!]] Klausnitzer gets as much as you can all year round in two months. But probably the size ratio fits. That's the true scandal! The one who travels protectionist in artist areas receives salaries of 9.3 million schilling, and those artists you have to represent or have had zero. That's not decent! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] Mr Ex-Secretary of State, you can still slander! Have you lost any shame to the citizen that you are putting 254 million Schilling tax money into the United Stages in Vienna every year and at the same time golding a managing director with a annual budget of 9.3 million Schilling? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Shame on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4848	Mr Dietachmayr spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4872	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Member Gaugg has just claimed that 2 billion schillings of tax money would be "wasted" for the Linz Music Theatre. I'm actually correcting that the calculated costs for this music theatre amount to 1.2 billion schilling. On the basis of recalculation, as this cost calculation is three years old, the cost is 1.5 billion schilling according to the latest and latest cost calculation. This is 1.5 percent of a budget of 100 billion Schilling, which will be spent over the next five years by the State of Upper Austria for investments, including infrastructure measures. Five years is the construction time. 1.5 billion schilling of costs, 1.5 percent, that must be worth this music theatre!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4905	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e4926	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg, sometimes your contributions can be on the subject. But if you talk about the gages of some cultural managers and we should actually discuss the poverty of artists, I have to say, I would have expected more from a social speaker of the Freedom Party, whom I would assume, for example, that he is calling for more for the artists in our country. Where was this post, colleague Gaugg? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: In the committee!]] Mrs. Dr. Wolfmayr! I do not know if you can start something with a speech, as Mrs Burket has said, from the liberals. It can't be – and this also applies to you, Mr State Secretary – that you still believe it – it can be said – that it is necessary – and this has been claimed by colleague Burket – that every artist must align his art in such a way that he can live on it, or else he has to take care of other incomes so that he can produce his art. [[Abg. Young: No!]] You know, Mr. State Secretary, Mrs. Dr. Wolfmayr, that, according to this understanding, the entire art of the last centuries would have been only one fifth, because the artists could not base their art, their income on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: What did they live on, if not their income?]] – From measles, for example. Thanks be to God, there is no more mediateness in a modern, democratic art! Thank God we are no longer dependent on the fact that Mäzene and sponsors align the art according to their interests. That's what's bad about art. One can certainly say that it is a progress that we are beyond the medieval form of art promotion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, Mrs. Dr. Wolfmayr, you know the situation of authors in Austria better than I do, I suppose. I'm just calling one name: Mrs. Marianne Fritz – I think she is a Styrian artist – a great literatine, who, as far as I am informed, lives in complete poverty. She lives in total poverty, is one of the largest Austrian literates, which can probably be said without the cull coming from any party. Of course, this artist social insurance fund law will improve for this woman. But I wonder if it really is what Mrs. Marianne Fritz – and there could be names for her! – makes it possible to produce their work under living conditions and also to experience a minimum of social security. Ladies and gentlemen! This law would actually have to be called "Artist-pension insurance contribution fund law". That would be the correct name for this law. It is significant that this law also restores the female form, although the women are more likely to be those in which, no matter what section of art, the bad earners are, they already fall away in the title of the law. But this is not a coincidence, but it is true that the men – and this is the example that Mr Gaugg has brought – are also also in art those who hang on the pots, if there are pots that belong to the minister, while women in the art field usually belong to the bad earners, if one can even speak of merit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The "Künstler-Pensionsversicherungsförderungsförderungsförderungsgesetz" would not look good if one would call it that. That's why you call it different: Social security fund law. That's, like, an euphemism. I do not dispute at all, Secretary of State, that it will improve for important groups of artists, at least enter a part of social security. But you know as well as I do – Mrs Brinek, that is what I mean by you too! – that large groups of cultural artists still fall out of this dynamic art concept, which you have enshrined in the law. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Previously, everyone fell out!]] These are all the people who work in the theatre sector, the filmmakers who need to be employed, but not hired by the theaters because they don't have money to hire them because some big stages get all the money and the small stages almost nothing more, although they make an essential contribution to the art and culture in that country. They fall out, they don't get any money. It cannot be that the dynamic concept of art is expressed in the fact that important groups in this country are not covered by this law and therefore themselves are excluded from this minimal entry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The minimum requirement – and that, Mr State Secretary, you will be measured – is that an artist's social insurance fund law also includes health insurance and accident insurance. In certain sectors – you know that just as well as I – it would have to include unemployment insurance for certain groups – not for all, that is clear and should not be so, but what is now planned is too little. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why we will also support and support Mr Cap's request, in which exactly this request is made to you, because we believe that there has not even been a start to a real debate on social security for artists. At the end of my speech, I would like to make a comment on honourable Members. I already find it exciting, honourable Member and colleague Schweitzer, that you are going here and keeping up some of the notes you want to prove that public netbase has access to police data in any form, which has been suggested in some way, and that at a time when the debate is proven to be held in court or by the investigating authorities, whether no colleague Schweitzer has provided access to police data in a way that is no longer tolerable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Schweitzer! I can only say so much: You don't have to match Public Netbase... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer presents a document to the speaker.]] I would like to take note of this. – Public Netbase is – you don't have to agree with this group – an important cultural association. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Read up! Read!]] I only read on the top left: "From the police file to the Thursday demos." – I am surprised that I am getting a police file from colleagues Schweitzer to the Thursday demos. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Let's not carry this outside! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Oja!]] Mr Schweitzer, I'll get it back to you, otherwise that's even a nuisance. [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[The speaker gives the document Abg. May. Sweitzer back.]] I got a police record from colleagues Schweitzer. That must not be true! Mr Schweitzer! It wasn't exactly cheap. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who has demonstrated against whom?]] I'd advise you, Mr. Schweitzer, to deal with police acts that you're putting on my table here to be a little more cautious. You're not supposed to wear it that openly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You would like that!]] The debate on Public Netbase is only a short comment, and my colleague, Lichtenberger, will address it even more precisely. The colleague you are referring to, who is candidates for the Greens, is no longer at Public Netbase, but, when she sought the candidate in the Greens, she clearly and cleanly separated herself from Public Netbase. - Point one. Point two: The Public Netbase prize addressed by Mr Schweitzer is, as far as I am aware, a price not from public resources but from private funds. The story about this is interesting: This prize was won at the Prix Ars Electronica by a group that, out of protest against the ÖVP/FPÖ federal government, passed on to Public Netbase for the circumstances under which Public Netbase is deprived of the material basis. Public Netbase continues to award this prize. A pretty clean story, colleague Schweitzer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5140	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5164	Mr President. It's going to be embarrassing to colleagues, Oellinger, because he claimed I had gotten a police case. [[Abg. Oellinger: I didn't claim that!]] It's not like that! Public Netbase has been concerned about police acts and has published them on the Internet. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh that!]] That corresponds to the facts, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5219	Next, Mrs Povysil is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5240	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, yeah, there's a medium, that's called the Internet, you can look at different things, some people put something in the net. Because the "dynamic artist concept" has previously been in discussion: I understand that the term "dynamic" is difficult for some to understand that the term "static", the non-moving, is more common. That may be already, but our cultural understanding does not see the artist loosed from his audience and loosed from the people who are interested in art and him, but rather there should be an identification between artists and art-interested people, between artists and audiences. Therefore, especially in large and still unfinanced cultural projects which are not financially secured, our cultural understanding should be based on people, namely those people who are interested in this project. That, ladies and gentlemen, is democracy! Democracy is co-decision, including on cultural issues, and we expect this decision, however it may be, to be implemented and carried out by the relevant politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5282	The next item is the report by Mr Cap. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5304	Mrs Povysil! If a campaign against the Musiktheater Linz is conducted with the slogan "Small man pays big opera", then that has nothing to do with what you said before, namely that this is just a survey of the citizen. The aim is to try to set a basic mood in motion so that this music theatre does not become reality. But this is not a democratic question, but a populist game that is driven there, in which it is then said: What do you prefer: a bridge over the Danube or an opera? – But what is to be done there is not even an opera, but a music theatre. [[Accompaniment with SPÖ and detonative accompaniment of the abg. Ellwall.]] I had actually expected a different opinion from the chairman of the Committee on Culture. I have to say that! In fact, I also expect Member Wolfmayr or State Secretary Morak to make a clear statement on this issue in this conflict over the music theatre in Linz, because that is really a cultural issue. That's really about signaling which side you're on. For example, it may also be that you are on the side of the audience, which then agrees on how good the productions are then in this music theatre. Therefore, it is necessary that it be built, and therefore it is necessary that your populist game does not come to light on this question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But perhaps this is already the dynamic art concept we are confronted with here: that part of the government coalition is for this music theatre and the other part is fighting it with populist methods. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is democracy!]] Perhaps this dynamic is an essential part of your art understanding. We are therefore very excited about how this will continue. Next point: I have believed that today we are discussing the issue of social security for artists, but I have apparently been deceived. I listened very carefully to the speech by Secretary-General Morak when he mentioned who participated in this presentation. There have been many names, but there has been no name of a person from the FPÖ. The FPÖ has actually made no contribution to this either. Today, however, the FPÖ has carried out an artist's abuse in the person of Mr Kurzmann, Mr Burket and Mr Gaugg. It's inconceivable what happened here today. I can't believe it! [[Abg. Gaugg: Since when is Klausnitzer an artist? An artist of the SPÖ!]] Mrs Burket has produced himself here today and has almost insulted and mocked the contemporary artists by saying that there are, of course, fine artists whose images are not bought, there are, of course, film-makers whose films are not seen, there are, of course, theater producers, where no one goes to the theatre, and they should be left to starve, they should not even get a chance, they are not interested in everything. – This is said in an art and cultural debate. That's inconceivable! But that is really your true endeavor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the highlight of the artist's insult was when you said that artists were rewarded for benevolence for years by means of art promotion. They say nothing but that the artists bought by art promotion are the referees. [[Call to the liberals:Yes!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This is a declaration of war to the artists who urgently needed this money to develop their art at all. That's your understanding of art! I am not surprised at the fact that Mrs Burket spoke exactly in this debate, because what she said is the official position of the FPÖ. And Mrs Povysil, the chairman of the Committee on Culture, who was still here, did not agree to the speech of Mr Burket. That's a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You can stand up to internationally renowned artists as you like, but you can't say one thing: that Peymann and Mortier are not important personalities. I would be interested in what you, Mrs Brinek, Mrs Wolfmayr, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, are saying about this. You're in a coalition with them! You have already spoken today. You should actually get out of here and distance yourself from these statements! [[Abg. Gaugg: Since when is the Klausnitzer an artist?]] Your speech to the Musiktheater Linz was also a scandal, but it doesn't matter for you, because you don't go to a theatre anyway, because it's probably indifferent anyway. [[Ironic cheerfulness and applause at the SPÖ.]] But you should come out of the ÖVP! It was then said that they were abused as ideological spearhead against FPÖ. – By the way, there was only weak applause, all the time, I don’t know what you have today, lead hands or anything else. – It was then assumed that they were an ideological spearhead. However, they have done nothing else – not all, but only some, in different strengths – than to be critical as citizens. I don't wonder if artists are critical of your poster actions against artists when artists say: Well, that's a party that says the hand that feeds you doesn't bite. I don't wonder if they don't feel represented when they're critical. "A hand that feeds you, you don't bite": This is an inconceivable requirement for art promotion policy! [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Saviour.]] That's a call for state art! That's a call for benevolence! This is, in fact, a call for submission! This is to make the artist a bitter. [[Abg. May. Schender: This was Mr. Wittmann hanging over his desk!]] But then you still want these people to be grateful. Then, even though you have not been involved in this template at all, go here and ask these people to say: Ah, from today the picture of the FPÖ is another, we get 1 000 S per month grant for our pension fund. In reality, the liberals are liberal, incredibly liberal. Even me, the state-based contemporary artist, they give 1 000 s once I go to the old part. Thank you, FPÖ! Thank you FPÖ for this benefit! - That's what you want! [[Abg. Gaugg: Shorten the Gage to the Klausnitzer! Then we have more money!]] It's deepest feudalism, nothing else. You want around artists. You should be ashamed of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Right! Its policy is, in fact, a policy of denunciation, a policy of envy and the mobilization against artists, against contemporary art, against decisive, important personalities in the art scene. [[Abg. Gaugg: Such a fool!]] For you, a good artist is only that artist, the "Heil, Gaugg!" and "Heil, Burket!" That's right. But you can keep them, but they do not thank God anyway. That's your art understanding! But this will not be a majority in Austria and has no place here either. It was finally written to you in the main book. I would ask you from the ÖVP to finally read the Levites for these statements.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5502	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Petrovic. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger, who has been mentioned as the next speaker, has accidentally gone to the speaker's desk too early, notes this error and returns to his place.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and cry at the SPÖ:And say good-bye! Bye! Sit down!]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Krüger) Just as long as you were Minister!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5553	Ladies and gentlemen! It is a kind of galgen humour that accompanies this debate, and I simply do not want this House to go to the next item on the agenda until a clarification has been made about the speech by Mr Schweitzer. This is precisely the tactics and practice of the liberal government party, which we are sufficiently aware of: Because around certain names or groups a very nebulous accusation of dishonesty, a almost conspiracyal plot is constructed, there are any drug rumors, high betrayal, fortification, all these things put into space, then some papers are waxed and said that these are grey, dark elements. Mr Schweitzer, I ask you to: Passing If you want to claim that any illegalities have occurred, or don't talk like that anymore, you'll send these documents to the security officers in this house – there's enough here! And I call on this House not to tolerate these practices anymore. The Secretary of State should also speak on this matter. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tell the fungus!]] Deputies! Not rumors, not accusations, if you have anything... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tell the fungus once!]] I don't need to say anything to anyone, give the documents to the competent authorities! And the house and above all the ÖVP I ask for: If you don't want to have this permanently, you'll set up an investigation committee on political responsibility in the so-called Spittel-Causa,...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5598	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5613	... so that this paper watch can stop once and for all!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5652	The next item is the report by Mr Krüger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5673	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This shows a strange understanding by my colleague, Ollinger, of access to new media: Mr. Karl Schweitzer goes here, giving colleagues oillinger expressions from the Internet, which are immediately recognizable to anyone who has only been dealing with the Internet a little bit and has only looked into it once, but for colleagues, Ollinger, this is a police act. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] For a party that writes the progress on its flags, which always says that it is necessary to support new media, it is already a strange understanding if you do not recognize Internet expressions – homepages, too, colleague Oellinger – at first glance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say to Mr Cap: If one is ashamed here, Mr Cap – and you were the one who expressed shame – then you are, in fact, the one with which you have come to the speaker's seat with respect to the FPÖ, and in what way you have given your speech, is truly incredible and a low point of the day, a first provisional low point. It's really a low point when you say "they with them". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know you long enough, Mr. Cap: There are political areas where we meet, and even if we advise and speak outside of an audience, I have moments in which I can't hide a certain sympathy for you – I admit – but when anyone or more than three or four people listen, it's up to you to make people who make honest politics here who work for artists despicable. I know exactly what you have done here – even in the past legislative period: "They with them." – You are not even able to find a proper speech for FPÖ politicians, and that is what you should be ashamed of, my colleague, I must say that to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Cap! You said it was an incredible populism when you said: Little man pays big opera! – Of course one can say that it is an incomplete quote because each taxpayer has a contribution to make. But you will, please, do not explore that when 2 billion schilling is installed for a Prestige opera, of course, this money will be lost in the national budget – that is no question! – and that to this extent, of course, less investment resources are available for other things. On the contrary, no one is going to say seriously here. If you say that Donaubrücken and so on, I ask you: Yes, how was yesterday's debate? Has it not been asked from your ranks and from the ranks of the Greens over and over again why you buy expensive interception hunters while you introduce study fees? – That’s how it is in a democracy: Every public issue has to justify itself, that is no question at all. If you want to pass a ban on discussion, it shows a strange way of dealing with democracy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap! I tell you openly that I was amazed today when you made your first speech, because you left an unexpected, moderate impression. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He wasn't even more fatter there!]] You then followed the debate, and at one time you noticed: For God's sake! What happened? If there are not the government parties, has not the FPÖ finally dissolved the reform stand in the artist's social insurance system, in which book pricing is binding? Who made the reforms? – You've had thirty years, you haven't done anything for the artists. The artists were extremely dissatisfied with you. You haven't introduced an artist's social insurance scheme, you've always discussed it. They only wanted to abuse the subject of art as a means of fighting against the FPÖ – that's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, some thoughts on the popular survey that will take place on Sunday in Upper Austria. I think it is important that this first popular survey will take place at the Upper Austrian level. It will certainly be an hour of direct democracy, and I believe that this People's Survey will also punish all those lies that say: Cultural issues we are elucidating from direct democracy. Cultural topics – as they have always been discussed here – are nothing for the "small citizen", since he has nothing to say. Ladies and gentlemen! In a democracy there is no area in which the citizen does not have a word to speak. It's written to you behind your ears!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5761	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5783	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Although I do not want to extend this debate, I would like to make it clear that: I deeply regret that the music theatre in Upper Austria is being questioned here and today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I urge you to: We should confess to culture, whether in Vienna, in Salzburg, in Graz, in Innsbruck – in any capital of the country – no matter in any municipality. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This also includes a modern music theatre in Upper Austria. [[Calls and countercalls to the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] I'd like to ask for something. There is a unanimous decision on this construction of the Upper Austrian countryside. I should like to remind some of the colleagues of what was said in the 1992 budget debate in the Upper Austrian Parliament on the subject of culture. In connection with the cultural area, he praised the modern music school system in Upper Austria and then said literally: We have so far failed to put this positive cultural work on the crown. That would be a contemporary music theatre, ladies and gentlemen. – Original quote. President Bodingbauer of the FPÖ – not even an unknown and insignificant one, but a man I very much appreciate – said literally: Such a rich federal country cannot afford to abandon this urgently necessary music theatre for any longer! - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! That should be enough facts!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5847	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5868	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Are you for that, too?]] [[Abg. Schieder: What about the music theatre?]] For Mrs Petrovic in particular, for Mr Oellinger in particular: "The website www.no-racism.net is located on the server of Public Netbase." – Is a project by Public Netbase. This is here, Mr Oellinger. It goes on to say: "The removal of subsidies and the termination of public netbase in the museum quarter also threatens this project" – no-racism.net, our project, that of Public Netbase. In solidarity with the threatened projects – in brackets – "(that includes us)" – i.e. no-racism-net; "unsir" refers to Public Netbase, we publish here the following opinions... [[Unrest in the hall.]] It's quite clear: There, secret data in connection with the Thursday demos of Public Netbase are clearly placed on the Internet from the Federal Police Directorate Vienna, the District Commission Internal City and the Security Department, Mr. Oellinger! [[Call the Freeman and the ÖVP:Na hello!]] Mrs Petrovic! To calm you down: All of this is still summarized today and handed over to the prosecutor's office for investigation. There will be an appropriate display. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I would like to say: It is the club from which you recruit your candidates for the Vienna Landtag.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5953	The next item is Mrs Lichtenberger's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e5985	May I repeat this for the record loud before I come back to the subject: Short form for Stalin Oillinger is Stöllinger. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The short form for "Stalin Oillinger" is "Stöllinger", right!]] Deputies! I would like this to be contained in the Minutes and call for an order. On the subject: Ladies and gentlemen! It was only to be expected that a cultural debate would also be opened in the context of the debate on the artist-pension insurance contributions. However, I was surprised at the level of the whole thing. Mr Schweitzer! A short while ago, on Public Netbase, we'll hear more about it. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] In case you do not notice – this is of course a difficult matter because of the complexity of the Internet and the provider, the organizations and cultural operators on the Internet – a page from which you have quoted lies on the Public Netbase server. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Public Netbase itself says it's "our project"!]] I do not now judge in ignorance what who used to be, but I note the following: If something is on the server, it is obvious that it is an exaggeration to recognize the difference. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is our project! Didn't you listen?]] Mr Schweitzer. We have already researched a bit further to look at and give you a helping hand, who is then one of these evils who supposedly publish these terrible things on the Internet. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: These are your candidates!]] The traces lead to the vicinity of the Austrian People's Party – as a small help in the search. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Boy: Oh, that's it!]] However, I would like to conclude by addressing this issue very briefly the rest of the cultural debate that has taken place here today. I already notice the following: The understanding of culturalists and of art dares to define the liberals more than easily. They take it easy to determine, by means of examples and definitions, what art is and what culture is – that is, quite clearly what neither the liberals criticise nor any Member of this House has ever come too close. – This is a sad matter and a sad cultural understanding! I have to tell you quite honestly. [[Abg. Kiss: That's great!]] Look into the history of culture and art, and you will find few cultural achievements that would have come about if parties like you had been able to intervene rigorously in recent years! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This brings me back to the question of Public Netbase and the new culture on the Internet. Of course, you have quoted very selectively when you have led to the cultural achievements of Public Netbase. For example, I would recommend that the exhibition designed for Brussels, which reflects the new circumstances of the Internet on a very well-founded basis, be put to the fore. Perhaps you would no longer be so easily sitting up with such errors that you are in connection with the Internet. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Please, which "irrets"?]] These are topics such as the information society, such as privacy. There are expert discussions. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What mistake?]] It is about the third world's access to the Internet and about what new social differences are being opened up in information elites. Look at this! This may not be in line with your cultural understanding, but you would surely be heading forward for miles! On the topic of Upper Austria, of course, I also have to say something. The polemics, which is launched by the liberals, with: "Small man pays big opera", where interestingly – and this would also be an important story for internal party training – a cleaning woman and a cashier are shown at her depth almost inexorably. They're talking about opera, so to speak, to create an enemy image. It is a music theatre, and this would be a very important element in future cultural policy in Upper Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I hope that the liberals will not succeed in preventing this. At the very beginning of the debate, they also discussed book pricing and found the great achievement of the liberals that there is now this book pricing. I would remind you, however, that it was the Echerer Members in the European Parliament who, together with a SPD member and the main association of the Austrian book trade, prepared a bill at a time when there was still political deep sleep on this subject in Austria. I think that this performance must be recognized at least as much as what you believe you have done now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] In any case, it is still to be noted why we cannot give our consent. It would have been very easy to get our consent to this law, too, if the Secretary of State had been willing to accept a clear requirement for a model for the continuation of the scheme for artists in the direction of health insurance, an accident insurance – something that is urgently necessary, especially in areas of culture which have more disadvantages than benefits under the current regulation. I am also speaking a little for the culture of small theatres, because the employment obligation there becomes a huge problem. This is the next and most necessary step for me, and that was also an essential reason for me to agree or not to agree. I hope you will continue the path and take the decisive step. If he's good, you'll also have our approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6145	Next item is the report by Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6172	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A day when a law is passed on the social security of artists, a law we all want, does not deserve this debate to be reworked and advertised for a country theme, namely for the construction of the music theatre in Linz – I deliberately say: [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Music Theatre!]] Music theatre. At a time when, like yesterday, we decide on budget accompanying laws, in which we make heavy interventions for budget consolidation, cuts – all citizens must bring victims – at that time the SPÖ is voting against the "advertising billions", against the "carnation money for all", but for the opera in Linz, for the music theatre in Linz we have the money. [[Abg. Edellinger: Oh, that's it?- Oh, my God!]] [[fierce calls to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] The Minister of Finance has already said: There is no money from the Federation for the Linz Music Theatre! That's country! The Upper Austrian citizens have to pay the costs. – That is why I do not understand that the head of state of Upper Austria, Pühringer von der ÖVP, has made 25 million schilling loose for the advertising of the opera. – Tax money, not party money! 25 million schilling! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Tell the State Councillor Achatz: Shut up! I'm hustling 25 million schilling into advertising for the opera – a kind of brainwashing for the Upper Austrian citizens so that they can vote for the opera. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hey!]] The ÖVP MEPs in Parliament can be abused as the handcuff of the Upper Austrian head of state. I do not think this is good for the political coalition climate here in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6276	Mr Pilz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6297	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has discovered the Internet and will encounter the Austrian People's Party. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] Yes, from me. What you need Public Netbase to find a black culprit, I've been hidden so far. The only thing I would like to say is: All information disclosed here is from files which are legally accessible to the parties to the proceedings. I can therefore only understand the demand of the liberals in such a way that the right of access to documents should be abolished in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's something else!]] This is the free court procedure, which reminds me of standing jurisdiction rather than of the rule of law. [[Abg. Neudeck: You defend something you don't even know!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: We are talking about subsidies for taxpayers!]] But I hardly believe that you will only find an understanding of this at the coalition partner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Schweitzer! But if you use the agenda item, with the President's approval, to bring further light to the top of the ladder, I would like to take this up – that is not a problem at all – and tell you two things: First: The case of Schweitzer is not going to be dealt with today, but next Tuesday at this time in this House, and I recommend that you prepare yourself well for it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Should this be a threat?]] Secondly, If you already need more information, I'd like to bring more light into the dark. It is because of the testimony of the then clubman Mag. Stadler pointed out that the justifications Stadler and Böhmdorfer are no longer sustainable in terms of the top cowardry. [[Abg. Gaugg: Where did you get this?]] To the question as to where I am from, I tell you, from lawyer Dr. Vana, who took this from his own act. We of the Greens have nothing to hide at all. We do not need a pointed ring – we simply and simply legally serve our highly qualified lawyers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not on the matter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler has been asked where he has gotten illegal files. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is about the artist social insurance!]] He explained the following in court and under the obligation of truth: "I don't know externally whether I knew at the time of this press conference Haider's already mentioned advertisement of the LGK" – the state army command – the ebergassing ad – "because I don't know when I got it either. She entered the Haider office and only came to me from there, how many documents." – Of course, you would like to know what the other documents are. Stadler continues: "I myself knew at the time of the approval of the press release only what had appeared in the media from the ad until then." Now the court was wondering who knew the unknown parts that had been illegally acquired by the police. And then Stadler answered, saying, "After being held by his representative: It is true that we used to do this on our own and not on our ad." Furthermore, he then executes...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6430	Mr. Dr. Pilz! Half of your speaking time is exhausted, maybe coming. You're back to the thing!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6445	I am grateful for the fact that the President has already informed more than half of the speaking time. I remain brief on the matter, Mr President, and I am ready to do so and can then again devote myself to culture a little more generally. Stadler also said: "On the question of whether the previous statement is based on the various media accessible to the defendant or on personal communications from individual informants: Both. We also receive a number of communications (also with the content mentioned by me). Then it is asked who has obtained the information illegally and used it in the press. And then he says: "That in the present procedure (also) the statement is given to me that the car from Ebergassing is not by chance guaranteed in the same road where K... lives, I have already noticed when reading the EV" – an interim order – ". I drew attention to this from Westenthaler as the head of our press department." - Quote. For a long time, our press staff have been taking care of various people from the circle of the Kirchweger-Haus as well as the media "TATblatt"...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6482	Mr. Dr. Pilz, 80 percent of your speaking time is now exhausted. Maybe come. You're really on the matter now!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6506	It's wonderful that the President is counting! Thank you, Mr President, this is a new quality of the time economy from the Presidency. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] They help us to carry out this session in order. Now we know: Illegal material acquires office Dr. Haider, illegal material passed on to office ing. Westenthaler, illegal material used office ing. Westenthaler under the direction of Westenthaler. Finally, we understand why Westenthaler always says: I don't want an investigation committee! – Klubobmann Westenthaler does not want a witness to tell Westenthaler under the obligation of truth. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. I wonder how long the Austrian People's Party has been in the process of protecting the Freedom Party's Club from a witness statement in a committee of inquiry. Now I will come back to the subject of culture more generally. Both the culture of the Austrian rule of law and the Austrian art and cultural policy must be protected by a majority as far as possible from the free movement of persons. And I deliberately say "majority" because I know that in the ranks of the Austrian People's Party, not a few Members are willing to form other majorities, as this is possible, especially on the question of art and cultural policy. That is why our very, very serious offer, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: Let us raise questions about the culture of the rule of law, art and cultural policy, with the exception of non-coalition-free majority, which are effective protection for these fundamental interests of the Republic of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6557	The next item is the report by Mr Dr. Einsamt. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6579	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In particular, Mr Krüger, who has complained about the fact that we are not in a position to speak properly to the same person, may I also address it in an orderly manner: Excellence, I'm glad to speak to you too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! Today we are talking about a first step towards social protection for artists of old age. For this reason, we have a discussion here, which is partly also a cultural discussion. For this reason, Mrs Burket, among other things, speaks and finds it necessary to reveal her understanding of democratic culture here too, to say her understanding of democratic culture, which is to say, if someone, such as Mortier or others, dares to deal critically with politics in Austria, then one must put the chair ahead of him. Or else she said: People who do not put such people in front of the chair should not talk about cultural policy. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You have a cultural understanding that we should only make known, because then it would be clear that you have no meaning for art and culture at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was surprised, but at the same time I was happy, I must say when Mr Auer, a member of the ÖVP, reported himself. I have been surprised, ladies and gentlemen, also by the ÖVP, because you are and have been a party that has always stood for art and cultural policy in this country. It was not always the same art and cultural concept that we had, but there has been a long tradition of many prominent politicians, including the ÖVP, in terms of the promotion of art and culture in this country. And I would have been very surprised if no one from your group had taken the floor today. [[Members of the ÖVP and the Freeman gather in the first series and hold a meeting there.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: They're supposed to go out!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr President. May I ask you to ensure that strategy meetings do not take place in the first row. There are also possibilities for discussions in the foyer of this hall.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6632	Deputies! You're not prevented from speaking. Go ahead, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6654	Mr President. I note that you also have a strange understanding of the culture in this House. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] This is where discussions of the two government groups are taking place which, of course, affect the speaker's speech and opportunity to be heard. You do not think that is worth a comment. I also take note of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! Finally, I would like to say: I am pleased that Mr Auer has spoken clear words here, and I think that also corresponds to the line of his party. [[Abg. You're supposed to go out!]] We believe that the investment in a music theatre in Linz is not a waste of land resources, but an appropriate investment in the country's infrastructure, in the cultural infrastructure of this country, in the opportunities of people in Linz to participate in the culture. As we see this, on behalf of my group I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We support this project.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6743	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jäger and Mr Comrades, tabled by Mr Dr Einm, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6768	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Dr. Einem! I believe that the position of our party on the question of music theatre by Members It has been clearly explained. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! To my colleague, Mr Jacob. Auer has already said, there is nothing to add. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[The SPÖ delegates gather before the first bank series.]] We are clearly on this music theatre, which is to be planned and built in Linz. I am convinced that it will be built, ladies and gentlemen! But let me come back to the subject. I have followed this discussion today, and I believe that some have not understood what this law is all about. Dr. Wittmann, you should actually know what this law is about. It is a question of drawing a final line under a long development of the involvement of all groups of the population and all professional groups in the statutory social security scheme. We have taken a path, started with Minister Hums, then continued by Minister Hostasch, where we meant it should not be that certain professional groups are and remain outside legal social security. This has begun – I admit, strongly criticized by some – when it came to rewording the contract regulations. The labour contract scheme only meant that all those who are employed or have employment income are subject to social security. We put this into effect in 1998, as you know. But at the time we also said that certain professional groups should have the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they want to be included in the statutory social security scheme or not. At the time, we have set up a so-called opt-out phase, and you know that a number of professional groups have said that they want to enter legal social security, for example the economic trustees. At that time the pharmacists and the ski instructors also included. I don't want to list all the professional groups. This included, for example, the additional workers. At the time, the additional workers have also been involved and have been involved since 1. January 2000, as you know, social security contributions, especially in health insurance, but also in pension insurance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this basic consideration was correct. In fact, the artists have never decided clearly whether they want to be out of or into legal social security. When talking to the artists, it was always clear that they actually want to enter, so that they are also entitled to a pension and are insured in the hospital instead of voluntarily being insured in the hospital. But it was also quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the artists told us that they cannot afford this and that the social security contributions to be paid in health insurance and pension insurance cannot be carried on their own. Now I am speaking to Mr. State Secretary other than Dr. Wittmann. We have then also discussed how we can solve this problem. You know – you told me that in personal discussions at the time – that there is simply no financial means. The question arose as to how we can finance the fact that the artists are just included in legal social security. We made a joint request at the time, which extended the deadline. At first, the fall period was earlier, but then the fall period came 31st. ==References== We then made a joint request and said that we are extending this deadline until the end of this year. I would like to say that it was really Mr Morak who found a solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] He too was faced with the difficulty of not getting these financial resources out of the budget, just as you did, Dr Wittmann. I mean, the solution that has now been found is a good solution. We have determined that for the artists involved in industrial social security – of course not as self-employed, but under the title "New Self-employed", a financial contribution is made in the order of 1 000 S. And if someone said today that it was actually not an artist's social security law, but a social security law... [[Abg. May. Mr Stoisits: Mr President! How much percent of the speaking time are exhausted?]] Mrs Petrovic! No, I have more time. My speaking time is not limited. I have a longer speaking time like you, Mrs Petrovic, and I can make my speaking time the way I like it, and I will not let you limit it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: A percentage of the 20 minutes!]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] But let me say one more sentence, Mrs Petrovic. The situation is such that the artists are now included in the statutory social security scheme. However, they receive financial support in the order of 1 000 s, and it is clear that artists who can afford social security themselves will not, of course, receive these 1 000 S. I mean, it's a good solution. I am pleased that everyone is actually going along with this solution, except the Greens, and I regret that the Greens have not found the way to participate here. I guess the SPÖ said: Yes, this is a solution to which we confess. In this sense, I believe, it is an important step which is now bringing to a reasonable conclusion the measures we launched in 1997.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6860	Mr Kogler spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6882	Mr President, I would like to ask you to get the minutes of the previous debate and to look at the statement made by Mr Lichtenberger here, namely that honourable Member Haigermoser had claimed that "short form for Stalin Öllinger is Stöllinger" to check for their professional status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6917	Deputies! You were already with me at the Bureau and you already told me that, and I promised you that I would immediately lead it in. I therefore come to the next speech, namely that of Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e6942	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, you can continue the event somehow! I would like to put transparency in this House, because what has happened now? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, does a club secretary rush through the SPÖ ranks? Why? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How stung by a tarantel!]] "Who rides so fast by night and wind" – yes. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This was the club secretary, who quickly prepared a request, a request which had the sole purpose of bringing in a division between the two coalition parties. That was the only purpose! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Oje-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can't tell you how many times yesterday the larger opposition party told us that we were anyway through the 63. To put forward a request for 90 speakers, because there is not enough time to examine the request. [[Abg. Edlinger: Please cry a little!]] This would be contrary to § 53 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kostelka, because there is no time to prepare properly and because requests have to be prepared by committees. [[Abg. Silhavy: Between political vigour and parliamentary treatment is a difference!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Three lines, Mr. Khol! Three lines!]] I can only say again and again: This is simply where every principle that we asked for yesterday is thrown overboard today, if it is useful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Yesterday, the opposition was close to the mental breakdown because we submitted an amendment for which she had three hours to read it. Today, the last Member – if we hadn't seen the ready-to-be club secretary in the house, we would have been unprepared – has made a request in the last sentence, ladies and gentlemen, which has nothing to do with artist social insurance at all but nothing at all. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Three lines, Mr. Khol!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to comment on the question which we wanted to instrumentalise here to divide us, the new government, into voting behaviour, for this is only a matter for the Upper Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Did you talk to Mr Auer? He gave an interesting speech!]] The way they decide is their case. That's not a federal matter, it's a state matter. We have heard arguments here for both sides. The voters may decide, and we should respect the way they decide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore put forward a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Abg. Edler: So late?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Lively ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! I would be glad if you would respect the poll, too, because your attitude to the poll was not always a pure joy. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Take an example of the Auer Member!]] When it came to the fact that at the federal level we have proposed a national survey on vital issues of the further development of the European Union, Your chief legislators use all the tricks and means to tell us: Ha, ha! It is unconstitutional, it is illegal, it hurts! What about the people? – What do the people know about this? Ladies and gentlemen! What I blame the Social Democrats here is this course: once and then on the other day different. Once you are for the People's Survey, then you are even for a referendum on financial laws, where your own people, where your President Fischer – no, he was vice-chairman at the time – had established that he wanted a referendum on federal financial regulations, the fishermen who have always stood up against every referendum for decades. Against every referendum! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, that's it!]] A colleague said something very right yesterday. I would like to stress this, Mr Kostelka – your party observer is never in the house on important questions, so I turn to you – and would already encourage: Watch out for the reputation of social democracy, because it could degenerate to a left-wing populist party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: A left-wing populist music theatre!]] It is therefore important that the majority of governments once again take the right course. Direct democracy is important at every level, and we are at every level for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7195	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Khol, ing. Westenthaler and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7245	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It's really funny what happened there. We would probably not have noticed what would have happened if not the poor club secretary here with Mr Kostelka, who suddenly had this kind of igniting idea that a light had come up, had been so horrified that it would have nearly blazed him. And since I'm particularly sensitive when I look at it, I've seen what's happening. [[Cheerfulness with the Free and the ÖVP]] The "poor" club secretary is stumbled over himself in a truly treacherous way, and now the SPÖ stumbles over itself in this request. And that's the interesting thing that happened. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But the really nice thing about this politic spectacle that we are experiencing here by the SPÖ is that it has exposed itself to such an extent within just a few hours and has once again demonstrated its double-bedded policy for which it has shown itself on 3 March. ==References== [[Abg. Edlinger: The two, Westenthaler and Khol, fit together so classily!]] They deliver an incredible spectacle of how quickly you change your opinions. Zickzack! Zickzack! I say to you that a world cup race is a straight line against your policy by comparing it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Wuff! Wuff! Westenthaler, sit!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, there was the vote: We need a popular decision on the budget. The population has to vote in favour. That's important to us. Even the defenders of representative democracy and Rejector of direct democracy Fischer suddenly advocates a popular decision, and only a few hours later we all experience live here – with audiences and, as I hope, also with media – as the SPÖ makes a request 48 hours before a popular decision, with which it wants to take the result. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Seat! Sit down!]] You're completely wretched, as the people think you're just trying to enforce your party policy. They despise the opinion of the population. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The Auer doesn't see it like that!]] I'm really happy, because 24 hours after your request for a People's decision Please submit a request for the outcome of a popular decision to be taken in 48 hours. The A whole week before the country election in Burgenland. I hope that the citizens of Burgenlands will have at least a fraction of their present Blamage and that you will not be credible at all and that you will not really take the citizens seriously and will not take them seriously at all. Mr Kostelka, once again the saying is: Whoever falls a pit, digs, falls in itself! [[Vivid Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Edlinger: After that was a joyful promise!]] Mr Kostelka! Whoever digs a pit falls into it. Today it goes beyond the house, across all of Austria in this pit for you very loud "platsch"! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Seat! Wuff!]] He has tried again, and once again he has failed, Mr Kostelka, who is unhappy. That is why he is only the second clubman, because such actions are always going wrong. But a serious word at the end, and that is already crucial. Today, it has been shown: The government parties ÖVP and FPÖ and their representatives, we are democrats and we accept popular decisions. You've been blaming down to the bones today.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7384	A second speech was made by Mr Dr Pilz.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7411	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! It's a cross with the sayings. "Whoever falls a pit, digs himself in!" [[Lively cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] All right. It's probably gonna grow to break for so long as it's browned. [[Newly lively cheerfulness with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: And this in a cultural debate!]] Mr Westenthaler! Change the German language! She's defenseless, she's helpless, but she's a valuable cultural asset, and she doesn't deserve to be used by colleagues from Westenthal. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Mr President, I swear that I will avoid all animal noise in this context –: [[Renewal Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: He who digs a pit has gold in his mouth!]] It is not about direct democracy, it is simply about a question that the Austrian People's Party has to answer, but perhaps cannot: If it is not able to oppose its coalition partner for rule of law, to use merciless information to use fair procedures for the integrity of officials, then it should at least be able to work for a music theatre; for a music theatre, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] Is the coalition new that a former cultural party cannot even say openly in Parliament: Yeah, we're for a music theatre!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Lively cheerfulness with the Greens and the SPÖ, as the speaker speaks with shy-winterly voice.]] What liberal sanction threatens an ÖVP confession to a music theatre? – Does the free parliamentarian or free parliamentarian mean that one can only say "people's survey" to the music theatre and can no longer have one's own opinion? Ladies and gentlemen! It's good that we have a cultural debate. The largest unculture in this Republic and in this House today is likely that no more mandate and no more mandate of the Austrian People's Party can confess to a music theatre. [[Abg. Nürnberger: The Auer already! The Auer's on it! The Auer's classic! The eye is great!]] As I said, The Westenthaler is known to go to the Khol until he breaks. And at some point we'll still experience that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7509	Mr Kostelka has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7530	Mr Westenthaler! I understand that in this situation one becomes nervous and promises, because what is going to happen here in a few minutes is not very easy to explain. Ladies and gentlemen, your vote in the next few minutes – you have to remember that. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You will, I am sure, reject our motion for a resolution in the next few minutes. They therefore reject the following: first of all, a clear commitment to the music theatre. You do not confess whether you are for culture or not. This is basically the first statement you make, and the cultural creators will know that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They even reject the statement that it is a political virtue to declare themselves as a politician in such an argument. Ladies and gentlemen, what was said earlier is true: To the music theatre only more "people survey" can be said. This is your cultural self-understanding, but also your democratic policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] One, ladies and gentlemen, the Upper Austrians will be particularly interested in their direct democratic decision on Sunday, namely your declared no to provide financial support for this German music theatre. In this context, you also reject them. Ladies and gentlemen! They ultimately declare what is now to be decided: 1 000 S as alms – yes; on the other hand: Creating appropriate opportunities to practice culture – no. We've listened to you very carefully. From the mayor of Auer, who is used to bearing responsibility, until Mr Klubobmann Khol has made a confession to the music theatre, as expressed by colleagues Auer, to what is natural in a democracy, namely to a confession to the result of a popular survey. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How do you stand about democracy, and about direct democracy?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I am only suffering one thing: the "left populist" and the Upper Austrian head of state, who by your decision must be reminded that a decision of this kind must also be taken seriously by the population. So far you've brought it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7592	The next speaker was Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7613	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka, this political zappa philipp you played there, is clear. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Is this a cultural debate, Haigermoser?]] No, I also spoke for the reason that the mockeryer met me, not against the government parties, but when it came to taking a popular decision to stand up for the citizens' will, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edlinger: That is why you voted against yesterday, Mr Haigermoser!]] This is one of the saddest minutes I have had to experience here in Parliament after 17 years. [[Lively calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If your vice-chapo Dr. Fischer just a few days ago, just a few hours ago, has agreed to carry out popular decisions on taxes, and then in the same breath, when it comes to recognizing a referendum in Upper Austria, in a federal country, break out in denouncings, then I dare to say that you are not democrats, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Because it must be a matter of course! A matter of course!]] The theatre that you performed today seamlessly then to the champagne travels of your party president, who once again suspected of being able to turn away from his attempt to make his way across Europe, made me thinkful. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: (legging a handkerchief to the speaker's desk) Because it's so sad!]] It has also become clear to us that the united left, consisting of Greens and Social Democrats – Khol has raised it correctly; beware that you do not become a group of sectarians – in fact, the inability to recognise that a democratic government in this country, elected democratically, takes turns that are no longer left, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Just like the pühringer!]] If you look at your request, you can see that he is clearly heading in the direction of nagging popular decisions. Before the Sunday decision you say that the Federal Government is asked to expressly support the construction of the new music theatre in Linz, Wurst, what the Austrians say, no matter what the citizens say, no matter what the powerful citizen in the election cell decides. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, they don't care what the citizen says!]] Just as you have not recognized the results of the National Council elections, You do not do this today in the Upper Austrian result, ladies and gentlemen. And that's undemocratic! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I have already formulated it: When I had the opportunity to be here in this House with the Social Democratic Party as a member of the coalition at the time – a little younger then, perhaps less experienced – you still called yourself Socialist Party and were Social Democrats; today you call yourself Social Democrats and are socialists worst condition, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] I can answer you at the end – also to the Greens, especially Mr Pilz and his consorts – with Arthur Schnitzler, ladies and gentlemen: When hatred becomes coward, it goes masked in society and calls itself justice. - It's written to you in the main book.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7778	Mrs Dr Moser spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Please, Mrs Moser, be so kind and be aware of § 58 para. 2 GOG: Start playing the subject to be corrected!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7802	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In his statement, Mr Haigermoser explained that in connection with the music theatre in Upper Austria, it dealt with a people's decision. I'm actually correcting: In Upper Austria, there is a public survey on Sunday, and this public survey has no political and legal relevance due to the above Austrian legal conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is an actual correction?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: My God, this is embarrassing!]] It has a political weighting, but it is not of legal importance in the country of Upper Austria. It was just completely stoned and clearly placed in the room.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7886	Mr Oellinger spoke on a second speech. The clock is set to 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7907	Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to comment on Mr Haigermoser's somewhat hypocritical speech. [[Abg. Böhacker: "Heuchlerisch", aha!]] In connection with the issue of "vocal voting", I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, that we had a referendum on EU accession, and it was also understood and accepted in this House. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Accomplished, but not accomplished!]] – The problem, Mr Schweitzer, is that in the Burgenland, there are the freedom-wing politicians who call for a popular desire to leave the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Is that forbidden?]] – So much on the subject of acceptance of referendums.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7975	Mr Van der Waal (PPE). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e7999	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Haigermoser here, from this point of view, wrongly claimed that the Austrian Federal Government was democratically elected. I am correcting him that according to the Austrian Constitution, not the Federal Government, but the National Council, Mr Haigermoser, is elected!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8070	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft Social Insurance Fund Act, together with the title and receipt in 356 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the comprehensive model of social security for artists. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Jäger and Mr Comrades on the promotion and establishment of the music theatre in Linz. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are located in the drawers of the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put their votes in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the request of Members of the Jäger and Comrades, "Yes" vote, those who vote against, "No" vote in favour. I now ask Mr Mag. Schweitzer to start with the name call. Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8185	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 12.31 p.m. and resumed at 12.36 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8215	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 166, of which: 67 "Yes" votes and 99 "No" votes. The request of Mr Jäger and Mr Comrades is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Hannes, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Brosz, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul, fisherman; Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gradwelt, Grünewald, Gusenbauer; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Huber; hunters; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, kostelka, herbs, cubits, sorrowers, kuntzl; Leikam, Lichtenberger; Maier, Mertel, Moser, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oils; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pillow, Plank, Posch, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Rider, Riepl; Shashing, twain, boar, silhavy, Van der Bellen; Wicker, Wittmann, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Amon, Auer; Bauer Gerhard, Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Brinek, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart; Valent, Fassleven, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Friend, Frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Gaugg, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grollitsch, Großruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Haller, Hartinger, Hetzl, Hofmann, Horneger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Koßl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzmann; Leiner, Lentsch, Loos; Maderthaner, Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Place love; Papházy, Partik-Pablé, Pecher, Pistotnig, Povysil, Prince, Princehorn, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rasinger, Reindl; Scheucher, Scheuch, Schoettel-Delacher, Schultes, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Sodian, Spindelegger, Stadler, Staffaneller, Steibl, Stummful; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Wachsländer, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8392	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Khol, Mr Ing. Westenthaler and comrades concerning the outcome of the popular survey on the music theatre in Linz. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. [[Lively ah- and oh-noise in the liberals about the somewhat delayed voting behaviour of the SPÖ.]] – Please take your seats! – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 44.) [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: This is distrust...! ... Request for distrust against the government!]] [[More lively calls.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Kunstförderungsgesetz and the Kunstförderungsgesetz, including title and entry into 313 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthal (Muhammad), for they do not know what they do.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Sit!]] – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to the draft law in question, to give them a positive sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Before we continue on the agenda, I shall give Mr Haigermoser a call for an order. Mr President, you made an interlocutory call in the debate and said: "The short form for "Stalin and Oillinger" is "Stöllinger"." - To do this, you will receive a call for order. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] 2. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on motion 304/A by Mrs Dr Andreas Khol, ing. Peter Westenthalerund comrades concerning a federal law with which the referee law, BGBl. No. 273/1972, amended (380 of the supplements) 3. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 303/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Mag. Gilbert Trattner and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Promotion of Political Education and Journalism 1984 (381 of Supplements) 4. Point report and request of the Budget Committee concerning a federal law amending the Party Act (382 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8531	We now come to points 2 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker, Mr Dr. Kräub is speaking. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8558	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It was already remarkable, and this is something new in Austrian domestic policy: This is where ÖVP politicians stand and promote with one hand a transparent project – and at the same time these ÖVP politicians vote against this project with the other hand. This image, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will be very, very good for the Austrian public! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Breeder Khol!]] But it was also something else in the heat of this cultural struggle very interesting: Mr Pumberger said that all citizens had to make great sacrifices. Mr President, I should like to thank Yesterday this was a very different part of the debate on the budget accompanying laws. But it's like this: If you forget your stand when you lose your consistency, then the truth comes to light. Ladies and gentlemen! Victims: Which victim does the citizen Michael Schmid have to bring? – The Schmid case plays a major role in the daily newspapers today. [[The speaker keeps an issue of the "Small Newspaper" up to date.]] "Weighing ministerial board: ==References====External links== The smith case in a double sense. He himself says in the small print that he has "to make all that is possible." [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: How was Vranckky?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hereby announce that the SPÖ will agree to the increase in pension contributions. However, vote does not change the fact that we think it is a good idea to register a ministerial board for nine months if, on the other hand, there is a huge wave of stress on the older generation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With a 3 percent price increase, with extreme tax and fee increases, you are offered a ridiculous compensation. What did the ÖVP chairman of the Austrian Seniors' Federation, Mr. Knafl, say yesterday? "Knafl unmistakably: "We will not accept this discrimination against the Austrian seniors and, if necessary, we will not be afraid of the way to the Constitutional Court!" – Mr. Knafl, Federal Chairman of the Austrian Seniors' Federation. Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite clear what you want to do with today's decision. This is a distraction maneuver. They want to say: Look, we're saving ourselves too. - But that's long gone. And tomorrow the newspaper readers and commentators will ask themselves: What does the Federal Government want to distract from today? Is it the burden of small and medium-sized incomes? Does the government want to distract from the reduction of unemployment benefits? Or the introduction of ambulance charges? Does the Federal Government want to distract from school money, from the tuition fees? Does the Federal Government want to distract itself from the general tax and fees increases today? What does the Federal Government want to distract with this cheap maneuver? For example, from the concealment of Austrian soil and soil? Or does it want to divert from the extradition of 106 000 families to the lack of protection in the living area? Ladies and gentlemen! Will the readers ask themselves tomorrow: Does this federal government want to distract from the Telekom Debakel? Or the great deal about auctioning UMTS licenses? – That, ladies and gentlemen, was the company of Mr Michael Schmid. What did Minister Schmid do in nine months? Or – better said – what has he done? – First of all, he has brought down many important transport projects. He has further, totally overpowered the office with power expressions, and he has to answer this mega-debakel with UMTS licenses. This is a billion-dollar damage to the Austrian population! That was Minister Schmid's piece of company. And what is his masterpiece, ladies and gentlemen? – The immediate declaration of option for the old ministerial board, immediately after taking office. Ladies and gentlemen at the audience! 125 000 S in addition to the 49 000 S pension as Council of State! What did Dr. Haider mean in such cases? – In 1998, Jörg Haider held: "I made it clear that it" – be careful, colleagues from FPÖ! – "there is no option for free politicians." Haider said: "There will be no free politicians who will also only take advantage of the old pension system. Otherwise, he's no longer with us." Ladies and gentlemen! Many people remember Mr. Klubobmann Mag with shudders. Stadler. It was reserved for him to bring down a considerable amount of democratic culture in this House. What has Mr Stadler always meant about political pensions? – He spoke of a "honourable society" of red and black in Parliament, which puts the money of pensioners in the pockets, and the small pensioners must hold for the paid bonuses. Colleagued Haller again and again to these Tirads. It is just a staircase, ladies and gentlemen, that this Mr Mag. Stadler has opted for the old system, such as Mrs Haller, for example. What did Dr. Haider mean? – "There will be no free politicians who will also only cash a schilling in favour of the old pension system. Otherwise, he's no longer with us." Ladies and gentlemen! If you read this way, Mr. Stadler will now become chief perverter in the pitfall scandal of the FPÖ. So this is a double-bedded thing that can't be surpassed by anything! Ladies and gentlemen! Dipl.-Ing. Schmid, as a pensioner in Styria, is of course in the best company with his old comrade Alexander Götz, the honorary observer of the FPÖ. By what two circumstances has Mr Götz become so famous and so notorious? – This is, on the one hand, the Graz trade fair, the trade fair scandals, the vet and the card fraud, and on the other hand, Mr Götz is so famous and notorious for suing the Republic of Austria, the taxpayer, the "little man" in this country, for political sanctions. He was able to rub his hands recently, he has achieved a great result, but he wants more. Ladies and gentlemen! I quote from the "Little Newspaper" of the 9th century. September 2000: "Pensions millionaires. Three more. All those three pension millionaires who have lowered the lion's share of the 21-million payment now want to beat out another ten million: Former City Councillor Scherer, Mayor Götz and Vice Stöffler. And so the approximately 21 million S were paid out: Karl Ludwig Scherer (VP): approximately 8.6 million Schilling Alexander Götz (FP): about 7.7 million Schilling Josef Stöffler (VP): 2.3 million Schilling". - It's all packed. Ladies and gentlemen! But that's not all. I very much ask you all to pay attention. There's another variant in the room. For Mr Scherer of the ÖVP around 54 000 S, for Mr Götz of the FPÖ around 44 000 S, for Mr Stöffler of the ÖVP in addition to 19 000 S to the previous political board. Ladies and gentlemen! At a time when there are minimum pensioners who have problems covering their heating costs, it means that they are fed under the inflation rate, but these rulers demand these funds – that is simply a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What, ladies and gentlemen, has the FPÖ promised in recent years? – Tax reductions, end with the friendly economy, away with the political privileges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] There are tax increases to a depressing extent, friendly economy to the Minister of Justice and political privileges, ladies and gentlemen. There are politicians' pensioners with you, Mr Westenthaler, where you can look: from Haller to Ofner, from Stadler to Haupt and from Götz to Haider. You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, preach water and drink wine. And the token for this wine you will have to pay on the next two elections. I'll assure you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8706	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8733	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday in the House, after hours of discussion, we decided on the 2001 Budgetary Support Act, the basis for the fact that we are running a savings course in the next few years, that we will end the years of debt policy. The acceptance in the population for this course is undoubtedly only given by the fact that the majority has the safe impression, it pays off, it has a sense and it is also saved "up there", Mr Wittmann. Save, save on parties, in politics, in legislation, in administration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] . I'm coming back to that, don't worry, Mr. Cot! I will return to your credibility, Mr Wittmann. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: I'm in the new system!]] Its credibility is also at the point of discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! These three legislative initiatives, which we are debating now, have precisely this objective: to save where the small citizen says, the "up there". [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: State Secretary Amnesia!]] We are saving, ladies and gentlemen, that we increase pension contributions for politicians, in the case of federal politicians, to around a quarter of the income. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's just say, There is no population that pays a quarter of their income only for their pension. There is no other population. [[Abg. Oils: The tears come to me!]] This will bring in 20 million schillings more, without therefore increasing pensions. First step. Second action: I believe that we are right to shorten the grants and subsidies that the political academies receive today. Savings per year: 5 million schilling. In accordance with the law of the parties, we reduce the subsidies. We are shortening them in the sense that we say that what would have resulted from the withdrawal of the Liberal Forum or also from the absence of the DU movement in Parliament more in money for the distribution to the other political groups will not be divided, but these 9 million schillings will be saved. We will also decide on a budget budget for this House at the time of the budget debate. I know the President did not like this. 25 million schilling less for federal legislation! This can be saved, there are also savings potentials, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] A total of 100 million schilling – this is what the citizens, ladies and gentlemen expect! 100 million as a savings package in the field of administration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let me say one thing, because the referee law is also under discussion today. Mr President. I am now very careful in my choice of words. I've been in Parliament for 20 years and I've never collected an order call. I'm not going to cash out today, even though I'm going to use expressions like "sacrifice" and "sacrifice". But I will not refer these expressions to persons, but to behavior. I consider that behaviour to be lying, hypocritical and unbelievable, namely, to decide here three years ago a contract limitation law, to limit retirement, to reduce pensions, to increase contributions, and then when someone requests benefits to point his finger at him and to say "pui". That is unbelievable, that is hypocritical, and it is not adapted to the dignity of this House, Mr Wittmann. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say this above all to those who brought this law into a four-party proposal three years ago and who will themselves be beneficiaries in a few years' time. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: No!]] I do not call it a name now, but there was a speaker here yesterday on the speaker's floor who criticized what they decided three years ago and what they will use themselves. This is a way of doing what I consider to be hypocritical, unbelievable, and lying! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should confess that, if we decide something, we do not point out with our fingers those who use benefits under applicable laws. I would like to say one thing, Mr Wittmann: I am ready immediately to give up my requested pension if I get back what I have paid for 20 years in contributions and forced payments. I'd like to be ready for that. But I think we should know what we're doing. Either we decide to do something to the best of our knowledge and conscience and stick to it, or we change it. I would like to be prepared to give up the pension if I get back the money I paid for 20 years on contributions, taxes and taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8850	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e8871	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am in a position where my colleague has quietly stopped: in hypocritical, lying and populist behaviors. Can I bring you a quote? It's not yours. But from you comes another one. "Why does a minister have a pension claim in his pocket after four years? Those ministers who have this government template" – for politicians! – "have decided, are the same ones who here in Parliament require that pension expectations be increased, for example for women, so that they are not sent to retirement too early." – Quoting, Jörg Haider here in plenary, on 9 September. ==References== But it is those ministers and delegates, including the liberals, who, with not even four years of ministerial activity – the best example is Minister Schmid; also a good example is the former Minister Ofner – twice stop their hand! Mr Schmid only once, but that was only nine months of ministerial activity. But former Minister Ofner filed a ministerial board, although he was not a minister for even four years, so he did not meet the minimum requirement for a political board under the old regime. In the old law on references, there is a special arrangement, which we would also like to have, Mr President, stupidly, that it disappears, because it also privilegeds you. There is a system that is unique all over the world. There is no other pension scheme, in no other country, there is only one for politicians in Austria, because if one does not even fulfil the minimum status as a State Secretary or Minister, one must take twice, because one also counts the time as a Member. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Have you decided!]] That's incredible, that's lying, hypocrites and populist! [[Abg. May. Trattner: We were against it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You have decided!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, Mr President, if you say that I am sure that the majority of the Austrians reject the safeguarding of these pension privileges as completely inappropriate – that is to say, the railways; It was you who said that – and at the same time there is this unique global special arrangement that can be applied for a parliamentary board for for three and a half years – about as long as it was with you – of State Secretary's activity. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 20 years!]] Although these two pensions are covered by the Relevant Restriction Act, there is also, of course, an ASVG-pension – which is also for you, that is not the subject of criticism – and at the same time an additional pension, as far as I know, not from the Chamber of Commerce, but from the Industrial Association. [[Deputies Dr. Stummvoll and Ing. Westenthaler: That's all you've decided!]] Ah yes! This makes you stupid, Mr President, when I calculate this together, in a category of pensions, which you are no longer very different from Mr Vranitzky. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] And you have made yourself and criticized the pension privileges of the railways! Is this a behaviour that is hypocritical and populist – yes or no? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] She criticized the railways that, after the old system, now also replaced there, they could retire at 53 years of age, although for politicians at that time, when you criticized the railways, there was a pension system after which they could retire at the age of 55. At 55! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 60! We raised to 60 at the time!]] You should be modest in taking your own nose, Mr. Deputies stupid. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Do it!]] You should take your own nose if you go on the privileges of others. This is particularly the address of the liberals. Is it a quote from Mr. Ex-Deputy Haider that I read to you? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We voted against it! You decided!]] Does it apply to you? – No, it has no validity! Mr Ofner has double pensions: a pension, a member's salary. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything wrong!]] The former Member of Parliament, Mr Bauer, not even for four years, has a State Secretary's pension and a deputies' pension up to the amount of the salary limit. Do you think that's appropriate? I have no problem with the fact that politicians will also be adequately rewarded in the pension. But please do not register twice for the same time! This is unbearable, ladies and gentlemen. There's nowhere else in the world: For that same time, Mr Feurstein, double-cashing. – I do not know the situation in the Vorarlberger Landtag, but I have enough examples here from the National Council to which you have to say that it is not enough to increase the pension contributions for those politicians who remained in the old pension system. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: What do you say to Mr. Rünzler and... in Vorarlberger Landtag? They've acquired a countryman's pension!]] Mr Westenthaler! I remember with pleasure the debate on the last reconciling reform when it was discussed whether an application by the Greens could be made which would no longer have provided for this double reparation option in the case of pensions. This is a motion for a resolution which we will also have to deal with in the Constitutional Committee. I would therefore like to remind you, Mr Westenthaler, that once Mr Khol had issued the command, you turned down small: This is not for the debate now! – When is the debate, Mr Westenthaler? When is this unique arrangement, which means that for months as a minister can be calculated twice as a Member of Parliament, that is to say, two pensions from the same time can be cancelled? [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll:... double contributions!]] – Not with double contributions, Mr Deputies stupid! You have always paid contributions only once. You could not claim a pension as a State Secretary, because you have not fulfilled the necessary four years, in which we agree. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] You can't have four years, that means: They do not meet the minimum requirements! You are counted as a Member of Parliament for months or years to meet the minimum requirements for the State Secretary's pension. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: paid 200 000 S per month!]] At the same time, however, these months of Members who are counted for the State Secretary's pension will not be taken away from you for the reference of the political board, but will form the basis for the reference of a parliamentary board once again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I should like to remind you, Mr President, of a debate or a public report that took place in spring. I know, because I carried this issue of double calculation back to the debate here in the House, but also to the public. They were called by a journalist of "daily everything" and were amazed that there can be two pensions from the same activity at all. Then you said: If that is the case, I do not give up my National Council board in front of a notary! – You learned it very quickly!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e9109	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e9131	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has once again been significant for colleagues Ollinger, but also for the SPÖ and for their previous speakers that they are criticising regulations, legal instruments, which they themselves – Greens and SPÖ – have established by their votes in 1997 with the decision of the reference pyramid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's the old regulation!]] You have the responsibility for these abuses! We voted against, Mr Oellinger, as the only party. [[Abg. Oils: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Check it out!]] You can't make it that easy! They simply go out and criticize what you have worsened at the time, for example, that there are improvements in income for politicians, that there is no abolition of the lush pension schemes, that there has been no elimination of the settlement arrangements, that there are still plenty of ways to pay, and that there are insufficient pension provisions or upper reference limits. All of this you have decided in the reference pyramid. We have already mentioned this to you at that time, 1997. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And the blacksmith is cashing!]] That is why we are now making ourselves very easy, because my group can say today as the only one: We have a flower-white vest in this regard, because we told you at the time that you are making this law worse and that people will not understand it. And that's why, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, we rejected it at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Say something to Minister Schmid!]] Something else was written in, which we also criticised at the time, namely that, although you are now criticising it, according to the referee law – and you should know this, Mr Oillinger! – By law it is not even possible to waive these claims. You also failed to make this change that we requested at the time. They didn't even create the possibility that anyone who doesn't want to. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The Schmid has shot!]] That is why, for example, it is with Member Harald Ofner that he has been giving his ministerial board charity for years, and I welcome this extraordinaryly! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Schmid and Stadler have opted!]] I could now, of course, enter into this childish dispute with the calculation of the various pensions and settlements. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: FPÖ Burgenland Funds!]] You know that the liberals have decided on a self-imposed salary limit of 66 000 S, and that no free politicians in addition have public money references, but all of them have much more to do with it. [[Abg. Oillinger: Don't talk like that..., otherwise I have to make an actual correction!]] And this self-restriction, which we have imposed on ourselves, is right if you know that about half a year in the office of State Secretary Ruttenstorfer has collected 500,000 S and now has pension rights. Mr. Klima is already an expert – he almost surpasses Vrannitzky – because he has secured a claim to pay 3.5 million schilling – twelve months' pay plus partial special payments under this law. All these things, they put their hair on you! [[Abg. May. Kogler: But show us that!]] And that is not comparable to politicians who... – I would like to show you, it is also very well published in all newspapers, I recommend "FORMAT" No. 10 of 6. March 2000, page 42 – I quote: [[Abg. May. Kogler: With the hair dryer?]] "The last golden noses. With the reference pyramid, apparently all political privileges were abolished three years ago." - Seems to me! You probably also believed that this would be done away with. But then it says, it's not like this, because: "All ex-ministers are entitled to the completion of up to an annual meeting... also short-term ministers..." Furthermore, you can read: "Not only ex-Bundeskanzler Klima, but also ex-Scientist... Edellinger, ex-Finanzminister, ex-Finanzminister... Schlögl, the former Minister of Social... Hostasch, ex-wife minister... Prammer, ex-Secretary of State... Wittmann..." – Where is he? – Aye, they sit together anyway, the two really entitled Wittmann and Edlinger! – "... as well as the" other "former... Minister...................................................................................................................... They all receive "a salary advance of up to a year", "depending on whether they will again take a job after leaving." - Quote. Getting Now They say: But we do not get it, because we are sitting here in Parliament! – – Mr Wittmann is already going and wants to put it right. [[Abg. Dr Wittmann goes to the Bureau.]] But this is the case, because if you leave the National Council, this salary advance will continue. [[Abg. Edlinger: Not even then!]] But you have to tell people that too! Now you don't get it. As long as it is, it rests – but it can continue. Mr Edlinger, I have long wanted to tell you how you have been ordered. No one needs to worry about it if Mr Edlinger's pension is to be approved soon. [[Abg. Edlinger: You'd like that!]] – Mr Edlinger, you have just cried out to me, when I had all of this before you, in an intervening call – not all heard: "I'm sitting here for nothing!" – I would never say, Mr Edlinger, that you are sitting here for nothing, but if you are of this opinion, I am really sorry. I would never say you're sitting here for nothing, you shouldn't put your light under the fret, you're not sitting here for nothing, Mr Edlinger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They now have a pension claim of more than 139 691 S as the Federal Minister and a pension claim of over 122 220 S as a long-term councillor of Vienna. However, according to § 5 of the German Pension Restriction Act, he is not allowed to cash both in full amount, but "only" an amount up to the ceiling of 161 070 S. – This must be imagined once: [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He's still in puberty! His brain is still...!]] The pension millionaire Edlinger sits there and explains to us that we are supposed to burden the little people, but has already secured itself a fat pension in millions of heights! Therefore, you are so unbelievable, and therefore no one believes that you can set relevant signals in this regard! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] But I want to come to the issue, because today it is a very different matter from the calculation of any pension claims and your fat privileges. Everyone already knows that the SPÖ has served extensively. [[Abg. Oils: But you also served yourselves properly, your party!]] Actually, it's quite different. We are – and this is what we are talking about today in these requests – addressed by the people, the legitimate question is asked [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What about Schmid now? Explain this to us!]] What do politicians actually do if there is a need to save when there are appropriate budgetary measures? And: Why is it going on as during the SPÖ government in 1996 and 1997, when billions of savings were decided, but politicians still got more and more money? And the people ask: What are you doing with the incomes of those "up there"? What are you doing to save politicians as well? What signal do you give that you too are ready to save? There are now different answers. – The SPÖ will turn away from the population on such questions, except Mr Cap, for he is very offensive and says that politicians are so poor at all! He has repeatedly claimed from this speaker's desk how poor the politicians are that they make too little money. And that's why I'm telling you you're not aware of any injustice in this regard. You mean the politicians are so "poor" anyway! But we say: If the Federal Government decides to take savings measures to achieve this goal – zero deficit, end with debt – a goal that is important for this country for decades to come, then – yes! – politicians must also make their contribution to this. With today's bill, we say that too! We say: Yes, the politicians are making their contribution, there are also savings measures for politicians – and not too little, because the overall package that we are counting on today for two years, so to speak, as a double budget, would mean 100 million schilling of savings among politicians! That is why we, the politicians, are making this contribution. This signal has ensured the government parties, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] All in all, these are 100 million schillings, and that's right, that's important. It is a step that is also meant as a signal! And it is also right and important that, when we talk about these systems of political finance and party finance, we also remember that public funds flow into the parties and that there is a party in this House which, if we had made further cuts in party funding, would have become a social case, a party-political social case in Austria. In this way, even the savings between politicians and the parties are socially fair. [[Abg. Oils: What about the blacks that entered other parties?]] If we had saved a few million more schillings – and we consider whether we are still doing so, because it would be right – then you would become the first party political bankruptcy in this country by the SPÖ with those 350 million schillings you are in with, and would have to lock your party! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Turnauer!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's what your own people, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ say! According to "Der Standard" of 2, 3. September: "If the Minister of Finance makes his plans true," – and further shortens the promotion of the party – "we have to become a bankruptcy judge," says a SPÖ functionary. ... The current state of debt of the Federal Party, SPÖ, "is 349 million schilling." The managing director Bures says: "The SPÖ would have been severely affected by a reduction in party funding." - Quote. That's the truth! Also "FORMAT" writes: "The SPÖ is pleading – and it does not know exactly how it is pleading, nor how it came about, nor how it could change this state." - Quote. This is your personal case of sin, which we will repeatedly take up, because these too are public funds. I am very much in favour of all of us thinking about what better controlling we can introduce so that public funds are not thrown away by a party device that does not control itself. We should consider such a controlling, ladies and gentlemen, so that such a thing is no longer possible! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Then we control the paper sack from Turnauer!]] But it has become strangely silent anyway around this 350 million schilling. You don't hear so much about it anymore. That's weird enough. [[Abg. Gaugg: They don't like to talk!]] But even more strange is that, at the same time as this debacle is getting quieter, first indications are that there has been a party financing, bribery money in the scandal of the Bank Burgenland, and the corresponding accounts of the SPÖ seem to have been cash flows. [[Abg. Edlinger: This went to the FPÖ with Frantsits about the industrial association!]] This is also very interesting – very interesting: on the one hand 350 million party plate, on the other hand money, party funding from one scandal. [[Abg. Edlinger: FPÖ financing agency Industrial association!]] We will also look at that even more closely, as well as the whole matter about your rents. [[Abg. Edlinger:... and in a yellow envelope at Böhmdorfer!]] You from the SPÖ, which yesterday, from this speaker's desk, have grown up all the serious to defend the tenants, you, who have had a party headquarters on Löwelstraße since 1945, stay there on 1 800 square meters and listen to it – and now very carefully! – pay per square meter 58 S rent! [[Abg. May. Trattner: But that's "a lot"!]] 58 S Rental per square meter! Why we know ourselves so well is quite simply explained: We also rented a new party headquarters in the city centre, but a little on the edge. I asked our Federal Managing Director: We pay there comically per square meter 170 S net, and this still without VAT and without VAT! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: With the money from the envelope?]] And, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, if you ask your neighbors on Löwelstraße what they pay for per square meter, then you will hear prices between 200 and 250 S. You, the SPÖ as a party, pay 58 S! [[Abg. Edlinger: This belongs to the Chamber of Agriculture! Did you mean that?]] This is a special privilege scandal. You no longer have any credibility at all for defending or for defending any tenants – at this scandal! You should take care of it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That's what I'm Your personal sin, and that's why you're so unbelievable: You want to work for the tenants, but you are actually one of the most privileged low-cost tenants in Austria. You criticise the renovation of the state budget, but you fail in your own renovation in the cash register. You're upset about saving, but even you're going to have a long time when it's about pensions and income. You are against a pension reform, but you are for the pension millionaires in their own ranks. Just insist on one consistent, of which you do not let go: Make debt! Debt in the government budget, delay the debt-making end when it comes to the government, make debt in your own cash register! And that's where you can't count on us!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e9594	As we now have three actual amendments before us, I would like to refer briefly to the corresponding text in the Rules of Procedure: "An actual correction shall begin with the reproduction of the claim to be corrected and shall be compared to the corrected case." I therefore ask the following speakers to take account of this provision of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. The first was Mr Oellinger's report on a real correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e9633	Mr President. Mr Westenthaler said in his speech that we had taken part in the old reference law. – This claim is incorrect! The old policy-related law was passed in the 1970s, with the voices of SPÖ, ÖVP and also – the Freeman! [[Ironic cheerfulness of Deputies Dr. Khol and Dr. Stummvoll.]] So the liberals have contributed to the political relation law. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He meant the contract limitation law! That's a pocket-player trick!]] The second incorrect claim made by Mr Westenthal was that there was an automaticity in political pensions, which means that every politician must accept pensions, even if they are double pensions. – This claim by the Westenthal Member does not correspond to the facts! It is not necessary to accept the pension, but, as Mr Collegue is very stupid to know from his own experience, one has to apply for it. If they have been requested, you have to accept them – that only seems logical, but perhaps not for everyone. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: She's not being pushed up?]] - She's not being pushed up!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e9706	The next one is Mr Wittmann, who is also Mr Wittmann, to make an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e9788	I just did not want to disturb the debate which Mr Graf is currently having. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Stand by the speaker's desk and don't say anything!]] I would ask the President to give me the floor and perhaps make it clear to the two that they cannot now hold a discussion. Mr Westenthaler claimed that I had received a discharge and had acquired a pension claim from my job as State Secretary. I'll put it right: I didn't get a finish! I am also correct that I have not acquired a right to a State Secretary's pension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] I fall into the ASVG regulation with pension funds, as decided in the Reference Act. But incorrect claims do not become more true if you repeat them more often. I would also like to point out that Mr Ruttenstorfer is right: He has also not acquired a pension right from his work as State Secretary, but falls within the same scheme, namely the ASVG area.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e9853	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of a further actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e9878	Mr President. Mr Westenthaler claimed that I had received a pension. I note that I have not provided a pension, but that I have acquired, on the basis of the legal provisions and my 32 years of political activity, the pension fixed under the old policy regulation on the basis of the referee law and the corresponding payment of pension contributions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Erssen! Sorry!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pension Millionaire!]] This is 80 percent of a ministerial salary. For me, no exception had to be decided as for your friends Ofner and Holger Bauer. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How high is your pension?]] Overall, I have been working for 46 years and would like to add that, unlike you, I work here in this House on a voluntary basis, while you, in addition to your parliamentary relationship, probably still receive huge amounts from your other activities. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can see it at the budget!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because nothing else fits into your pockets!]] My pension is 80 percent of a ministerial salary, and I believe that I have no chance, even because of my age, of opting for the new regime, as you know. I think you should be ashamed of this polemic.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e9969	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10017	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10039	I call Mr Kogler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10054	Mr Westenthaler! When I was politically socialized – that was in Styria, that was in Graz – I had in mind a great deal in this matter as far as privilege riding is concerned. A watch-earner of the Privilege Retirement in the field of political pensions is Alexander Götz's still-even-or-shon-re-FPÖ member. He hit a big break if it wasn't already others before, but Götz is well remembered to me. We've had a lot of work to do with this. Mr Westenthaler! Götz was broke for that. And I don't know why you're playing with your 66 000 S or 60 000 S, where you're never able to prove it effectively. At any rate, in Burgenland, where elections are known, colleagues Rauter would also be happy to take this. But you don't have to go that far. Mr Stadler has still opted for the old system. So why are you producing yourself like this is really not understandable to me. [[to the liberals]] And something else, Mr Westenthaler: They have emphasized that politicians are saving themselves, the government is saving itself. That was the parole. In this context, their slogan of "Rerule" usually means new language creations. "The government saves itself" - such a nonsense! Such a fool! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you have against it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The politicians!]] They obviously meant political pensions and the like. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Yes!]] Yes. These 3 percent for a system that is in itself questionable, are probably not the yellow of the egg. But we really come to the government. Let's see what you're always talking about: The government saves itself. Let's take a closer look at that. They explain to us: 100 million double budgets over the next two years, 50 million per year. Good. I'm sorry, but Cut it off. 50 million. – The same amount was introduced as a newly created budget item at the Federal Chancellery under the title "overarching public relations". [[Abg. Oils: Interesting!]] Great! Bravo! And what is that? What to do You with that? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much?]] 50 million! "The government saves itself": If it is claimed somewhere that something is being saved, it will, if at all, be budgeted at the Federal Chancellor's Office, so to speak, counter-booked, and that's it again with zero. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In any case, the zero account is fulfilled once. I'll get to the zero bill right now. What is to be financed by this? This is not just about the government saving itself. This will become clear to you if you look at the use requirements for these amounts. The government is going here and is funding government propaganda. It is already the question of whether this should be done with means of taxation. Nothing, Mr Westenthaler, nothing, Mr Khol, against the fact that parties are in favour of their positions, in this case for the zero deficit. You're doing quite well, too. Excellent staging! But why this is still to be paid with taxpayers is really no longer understandable. This is a political displeasure of democracy, even more so, and it is a very bad thing for democracy. That needs to be separated. The parties should advertise for their positions, and for that they will also receive their money. - You're in addition, as we know. I do not believe that the government is now taking this sum to promote a zero deficit. But you should perhaps make more effort to put it in Brussels. Perhaps you should channel your campaign there, because there they do not believe you to compare the reports of the EU Commission and the comments from Brussels in the last few days. That would be an effort that would pay off. However, it would cost less money, but needs more political seriality and transparency in the process. [[Abg. Edlinger: This one is not present!]] That's the problem. Transparency keyword: In my opinion, public party financing is only one thing. Mr Westenthaler, when you point to the SPÖ: With full pants it is easy to smell. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that's almost now...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This refers to Babies!]] If you are not finally going to disclose your party donations – also the ÖVP! –, the matter remains totally unbelievable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] No, it's about public party funding, and if you think there's so in the direction of SPÖ, they're bleeding out otherwise, and that's just a social measure, then it's not as "half-white," as you're used to always present it, but it's a matter of concern in a democracy, if that's the philosophy behind it: [[Abg. Edlinger:... the gift tax in the yellow envelope! This will probably pay the Haider his cars!]] Public funding reduces – who knows where – while at the same time few or selected parties are financed by certain stakeholders who naturally pursue interests – and others are not. This is the problem in democracy, and that is why party donations have to be made public. You are urgently in need of action, and that is why you should not talk about it so generously. Apart from that, it's not true what you're saying: 50 million schilling a year saved! I say: 50 million wasted for government propaganda! You know that very well.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10243	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10264	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to take part in this debate because I consider the mutual appeal not only to be degoutant but also politically unintelligent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore only make one request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This amendment was necessary because it was a correction of the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10332	The amendment tabled by Mrs Magistrate. Frieser has just been presented, is sufficiently supported and is also in an appropriate material context, so that it is also negotiated. The next speaker, and at the same time the last speaker, is on the list of speakers, because some have been rejected, is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10356	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Kogler, thank you very much for the 50 million. I can remind you that at the time we made a request to all the German Federal Government's advertising agencies in 1998. This led to the following results: In total, it was 163 million schilling. The Bundeskanzleramt was the top rider with 71 million Schilling. [[Abg. Edlinger: But that was the EU Presidency, you know, Mr Trattner! That's ridiculous!]] It's all ridiculous for you. Everything that is unpleasant to you is ridiculous to you. You can get out here and actually correct it, but don't act like that here in the House! Listen Please also give a speaker! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That was the EU Presidency, you know! Be a little more serious! That's incredible!]] I can give you a book, the "Knigge". That would fit well for you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Edlinger) You're caught!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm not caught by you! A wadl biter can't catch me!]] Or maybe one should show you a video so you can see how you behave here in the high house, colleague Edlinger. This is really not worthy of an ex-minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second in this series was the Minister for Science and Transport, Mr. Einem. "Rails instead of traffic blinds!" – 37 million schilling! "Nice"! For this slogan 37 million schilling? Ministry of Finance: 11 million Schilling. It says "Euro campaign". It's okay. Euro campaign: 11 million. And then work, health, social affairs with over 10 million schillings. If you look more closely at who has been fed there, it is also very interesting. A big cake got the "NEWS" so you can always look good. This is the socially democratically governed resort, and that was the ÖVP resort, that is, a small cake sticker. [[the speaker shall present a corresponding graphic]] The Socialists have given up "NEWS" over 10 million schillings so that they always appear good. In the "FORMAT" only socialist involvements from the socialist resorts. In the "Standard" the ÖVP occurs at least with a quarter, but three quarters come from socialist resorts. In the "profile": 90 percent socialist resorts. "TV-Media" – Federal Chancellery, socialist resorts. That's how you dealt with the money! That is, for campaigns 163 million schilling. – The one thing. Secondly, These laws have been passed by you here, and the reason for these laws was not free politicians, but above all politicians of the Socialist Group, and above all those who have obtained unemployment income in a way that is simply indecent. There is also the name of President Fischer, who for years has been referring to a monthly unemployment income of 52 000 s. This has remained incontrovertible. He never distanced himself from it, so it's true. Mr Kostelka too has a jobless income. And that's how it goes. And now you want to make yourself there and say that's inappropriate? If you had followed the liberal intention at the time, you would have given your consent to the liberal proposals at that time, we would not have all had these problems. At that time we wanted to abolish the discharges, then we wanted to abolish the pensions. But no. What did you do? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You wanted to abolish the execution after the Haider already collected it!]] This is precisely where the pension system has been regulated, namely those who have been sitting here in the House for ten years. They've turned this over. The others didn't even have the opportunity to give up. Many of our liberal Members, who have been sitting here for ten years, wanted to give up these achievements, but they could not. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You don't need to make a request!]] We have also made a request and have received the notification, unfortunately we cannot give up these benefits under the Federal Tax Act. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Don't tell fairy tales here! Request first and then decide!]] As you yourself deal with the money, you can see it in your own house. There you have to afford your own executive clubman, because he's a clubman's post with colleagues Kostelka, who gets the 170 000 S. In order for Mr Gusenbauer to be able to make available a corresponding salary, it is then added 70 000 S to the Members' salary. The same thing is done with the two managing directors: At 100 000 S each, each of the Members still has 50 000 S to do so. It's all right, right and beautiful. You can do what you want with your money, but against the background of a heavy million debt in three-digit order, that looks a little different. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Eben!]] Mrs Mertel, you have had a desk in Carinthia for a long time, and you have never seen the office. You've had that long enough. You don't need to get upset here at all, you've been a pioneer for this system, as many in your house. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But when I restore the material and financial context: This package alone costs you 2.5 million schilling every year, only from the additional salary you pay to your staff. In the background, however, you have 350 million schilling debts. That's not funny! I understand. But just when I am in such a situation, I want to achieve a certain role model and save in my own home, but don't throw the money around and hope that the Party Finance Act will bring the corresponding financial allocations. That is why you are so strongly opposed to the fact that we are reducing party funding. You're really doubly double in all your argumentation. We have seen it very clearly yesterday, Mr Westenthaler has clearly shown it. If the liberals, together with the Austrian People's Party, submit a request to enable one to offer BUWOG apartments for sale, to each individual tenant for sale – and he can decide within a certain period of time: Do I want to create property or not? – then you can’t be against it! Then you are excited that under some circumstances – but not at all at all – the rents can be increased. You have rental spaces on Löwelstraße in the order of 1,800 square meters and pay there a rental price, which corresponds only to a quarter of the actual rental price. Be so decent and pay You have the rental price, which is common there, at least 200 to 250 S, then you are credible again in your argumentation! But that's how you lost all credibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10524	Mrs Dr Mertel spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10556	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Trattner, as so many of his group have said today, I did not have a desk at the office of the Kärntner state government in Klagenfurt and I am a pioneer in this system. I'm correcting the fact that I always had a desk, had an office. [[Vivid ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A real confirmation!]] As proof, I suggest that I met the current Federal Minister Head in front of my office – he was on the way as a kindergarten representative in Spittal/Drau in the department – and asked him: Mr President, I should like to thank Do you want to enter my office and control my desk? – He laughed: No, I know where you're sitting because I've always been in this department for years, always going past your room and your name is on the door. Ask Mr. Haupt! He's witness to this conversation. He refused to inspect my office because he knew it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A real confirmation!]] And another comment on the actual correction that I am not a pioneer of the old system: I have at the Office of the Carinthian State Government a time review device that I use in detail – which is also confirmed by your party leader Haider – and I hold back my term of service.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10616	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10637	Mr President. High house! I always find it remarkable how colleagues from the Freedom Party are holding this debate on party promotion, references and these things here. I find it remarkable because they seem to be pushing out what happened in their ranks not too long ago when the famous Mr. Rosenstingl, an ex-post of them sitting inside, was responsible for hundreds of millions of people disappeared. Mr Trattner! You need to know, you were inside this fire brigade remediation committee. You've had to deal with the matter day and night. There were hundreds of millions! There it is even in the "Little Newspaper" on 30. August in one of the many, many newspaper comments and reports about this mega scandal gave a very interesting comment – because you always collapse when it comes to around 100, 200, 300, 400 million schilling in other areas –: That was nothing for Haider – nothing at all! 30. August, "Small Newspaper", that's what it says: "300 million FP debts are for sharks "spatzen". One has just shot "spatzen" when one has criticized 300 million schilling debts, 300 million schilling that have disappeared from the Lower Austrian Freedom Party, in the public. Nothing for you! What are 300 million schilling? That's nothing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's your attitude. What if the person responsible with his girlfriend moves to Brazil? - Nothing. Is that part of the political culture in your party, or what is it? – But you come out here and give such speeches! That's inconceivable! You should hang a picture of Rosenstingl in your club rooms so that you are humbler when you address this question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] "Don't forget rosenstingl," must stand at the entrance of the FPÖ club, "our man is Rosenstingl!" – I want you to do this and not always so easily go over it. Next point: Why are you actually opposed to the fact that the party donations – including those you get – are generally disclosed? Why are you resisting it? Again, Mr Trattner, I should like to address you: Is it perhaps the case that someone from a group knocks on you and says: Oh, my God, now I've looked into the cash register, and five million schillings have left me. I don't know what to do with it, I give it to you, there you have it. Take the 5 million schilling. I don't want any counter-performance at all. Just like that. I want to give them to you this way, without any kind of consideration! Every helicopter that Haider has gotten and has flown around with it – without any return power. All that you've got in millions and millions – without any return. - That's where the chickens laugh! Suddenly one comes to a Supervisory Board – "at random" he has delivered a party donation some time before. No consideration, because it has only happened by chance in the Supervisory Board the place has become free, and now he is sitting there. This is not a party book economy – not at all. Not even a friend economy. And the party donation you got has nothing to do with. That's the kind of Pharisee policy you're doing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler keeps a newspaper up to date.]] – Don’t shoot at squats, Haider would say if you kept that up. "Spatzen" are 300 million schilling, we don't want to forget that! That's something you've always brought in here and represented. Mr Trattner, you're twisting the facts when you say it was 70 million schilling at the BKA. You know very well that this sum has been spent in the course of the EU Presidency, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is to be assigned to the EIA. You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, should defend yourself. Mr Trattner has just said that during the EU Presidency, your Foreign Minister has "blazed" 70 million. That gives rise to discussions between you. They also know quite well that there has been a Euro information, assigned to the Ministry of Finance, which has cost 11 million Schilling. So this amount hasn't just been thrown out either. That was an important information work. For you, of course, this is a waste of tax money, as opposed to information work, which the current government considers to be. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The euro will be just as hard as the schilling, there are standings!]] Now it's all right. Now you are in the government, now it is all right for the ministries to spend millions on so-called information work, which in fact is government propaganda. EU Presidency, information on the euro, the introduction of the euro, that was really information. But you save money in your party funds by having to pay the taxpayer for the government's advertising campaigns. They do not, however, trust in this fact before the electorate. I think your behavior is a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Something else – we almost missed something, I have to say –: Mr Westenthaler is speaking here and says: The upper limit is 66 000 S net! – This is a 10-percent increase, because as far as I remember, it was 60 000 S net. Now it is suddenly 66,000 S. This is the first correction you should have said here, because you have not always had 66 000 s. By the way, with the 66 000 s, this is even a shame. Does this also apply to the freelancers among you, the manufacturers, the real estate agents, all the entrepreneurs? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Public funds!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: (in the direction of the speaker) Never watch out!]] Who's holding on to it? Mrs. Partik-Pablé – if this is really strictly controlled – pays something in the helpless funds you have set up in FPÖ; perhaps Mrs. Partik-Pablé. But do you ask if the liberals, all those who earn well, pay that? Does Mr. Pumberger, the doctor, the freelancer, pay this? Everything he deserves as a doctor goes to the FPÖ cash register right away? - There are the Upper Austrian chickens laughing! That's ridiculous. What you're doing here is actually constituency! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Regarding Minister Schmid, I have to say: That doesn't surprise me at all. That's nothing special either. We know this method: first of all we seem to have a ceiling, then we say goodbye to politics and say: Now I don't care if you're excluding me or not, I can't see you anymore, and I want to cash as well! – This is a spirit of Minister Schmid I understand. He can't see you anymore, he doesn't want to have anything to do with you, and by the way, he wants to earn what he's been looking forward to all this time. And what he said before doesn't apply anymore. They also contradict the old German law – and this should be of particular importance to you –: A man – a word. – That is not true with you! We will all those who now run around and say: 66 000 are the upper limit! to be judged by whether it really is. In the meantime, the only one who probably adheres to the 66 000 S limit, Member of the Partik-Pablé, has now arrived. I very much welcome you! Dick will not be your helpless fund in FPÖ if Mrs Partik-Pablé pays alone – perhaps the mixed dealer Haigermoser – but everyone else does not seem to be interested in this. And that's constituency. Let's ask Patrick Ortlieb and his many foundations. Patrick, poor Patrick, you really have to pay that much, is that really so bitter? – No, of course not, because you have two levels: the level as a parliamentarian here and also your other lucrative level. Olympic winners – Respect, worthy, but then don’t tell me that Patrick Ortlieb stops at 66 000 S. [[Abg. Young: Did you actually practice a right profession?]] Please, don't tell me that shame, you just don't think anyone knows the incomes of Schistars. That's ridiculous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Last point: Mr Westenthaler, your relationship with colleague Haider has already deteriorated in such a way – at least it looks like – that you no longer have to hide from the fact that § 18 Income Tax Law finally relevys; § 18, of which the Bearentaler lives so beautifully, by not knowing the word "Bärental" in conjunction with the tax figures. This connection does not exist in the vocabulary of state captain Haider. The tax privileges should be abolished, so that not the one who is constantly speaking of this 66 000 S can be removed from the border on a permanent basis by having such tax privileges. Be brave, come. You get out of here and say: I would like to have a change so that Haider will finally have to pay taxes! – That would be an inner-party dynamic that I liked. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To conclude: If you already think in this discussion that Members are not worth anything – probably, I do not want to hide you from your clubman, through your own club – then leave it. We believe that we are worth something, and we want to prove this to the electorate through our work, through a well-remunerated work, and not through permanent incitement and envy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Abkassieren!]] It hurts democracy. – Perhaps you don't mind, Mr. Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10818	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10861	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Cap, this comes from: You're so happy to hear you talk, talk into a vortex, and just don't listen to what it's all about! What about the 66 000 S? – It is about income from public institutions. Is the income of a real estate dealer, an entrepreneur, a business owner of public income? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's what I'm saying!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He said that!]] It's all private. All income from public institutions is covered with 66 000 p. – this is the first point. Second point: In the context of the EU Presidency's advertising campaign, they have said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also needed so much. - It's terrible. The comparison makes us sure: Federal Chancellery: 71 million Schilling, Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 1.7 million Schilling. [[Abg. Edlinger: The EU campaign was at the Federal Chancellery!]] They say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has consumed so much – but: 1.7 million, Federal Chancellery: 71 million schilling. They have also said that the Lower Austrian Freedom Party with 300 million schilling is in malaise. – You need to read everything! And that's your problem. But you also act in the same way in dealing with money. You can see it at Bank Burgenland: a damage in the magnitude of 4.6 billion – socialist rule. You can see it at the Socialist Party: 350 million schilling because They cannot distinguish between assets and liabilities. The 300 million schillings have not been a beautiful thing, I say quite honestly. It's got us very busy, and we've made it all right. But this amount is a number of dwellings, plots that were used, so that the damage that came out was only two-digit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] That's not pleasing either, but it's not in any relation to the amount of debt you've caused. Third point: The office space is just sensational. I have to apologize, I first got wrong at the square meter price. I said: 58 S. Please apologize: They pay only 56 p.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10932	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e10964	Mr President. Mr Mag. Trattner claimed here just a few moments ago that the 70 million schillings were issued by the Federal Chancellery. [[Calls:71 million]] Rather, it is true that this was the global sum for the European Presidency, which was primarily owned by the President-in-Office. The President-in-Office of the Council is the chairman of the General Council, which is the Foreign Minister. Therefore, the 70 million Schillings were primarily owned by Mr. Foreign Minister Dr. Schüssel.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11063	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11085	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It contains another law in this package, to which I would just like to say something, namely the law on political education work. There, too, should be saved. It is in principle to say that political academies have always been saved in recent years, because they were the simplest to attack because political education in this country seems to have a value which is not so high. But let's put that down. I would like to read about the reasons for this request, because I think it is very original. The application was based on the following grounds: By reducing the percentage, the The duration of 2001 and 2002 will be reduced by 5 million schillings. A law on political education is amended with some far-reaching impact, and the explanatory statement states that only: That saves money. I believe that political education should have an extremely high priority in the political groups of the government parties, not just those they have had so far. The second point – now I come back to the FPÖ – is this ominous 60 000 S limit. There are a few very interesting figures in this context. "FORMAT" of 21. February 2000: a report on the FPÖ Social Fund. There are a lot of people in the FPÖ who get pretty high gages, and then there is a bill that states that the FPÖ takes 52 000 S into these social funds every month. 52 000 S for – let us appreciate it once; in 1999 it was only about 40 Members of the National Council, not yet 52 – about 40 Members of the National Council, several councils of states, and a number of Members on the countryside. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] And now I come back to the statements made by Mr Trattner, who said that this only refers to the references from public offices. Okay, let's reduce it, that's an offer, and let's see what comes out of it: Ewald Stadler, Landesrat in Niederösterreich, has not listed how to do so, but he announces that he comes to a net relation of 63 551 S in his gross reference of 180 000 S. It would therefore be quite interesting to see this list, but I believe it can be clarified in this way, because Mr Kabas from Vienna has made the effort and broken down how he really calculates the amount, and that is not uninteresting. Col. Kabas is a caring person, you have to find out. He has an extremely high pension insurance, which he will need well in the next few weeks and months. He should therefore take very good care of it. [[Abg. Edlinger: Joyhouse inspections also cost a lot of money!]] The party observer of the Vienna FPÖ Kabas has a gross relation of 140 000 S per month, and he states that, on the basis of the deductions given, it reduces to 48 598 S, which is therefore not uninteresting if any Member in this House who relates to a normal Members' fee, even if he uses the pension fund scheme, will find about 52 000 S in his account at an amount of approximately 100 000 S grossto. Mr. Kabas has 140,000 p. [[Abg. Neudeck: How do you do that? Go ahead and do this to me!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Deputies! 39,000 S!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I don't know if you're taking your club contributions into account, but I wouldn't say that these are public charges. I don't care how much you pay for your parliament club. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 39,000 S!]] If you find 39 000 S on your account extract, I would advise you to do so, because then Mr Klubobmann may have already exhausted a part of it, as this is simply not the case with this amount. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] 39,000 S? – Think about how you're gonna get on it! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'll show you!]] I would like to see this, and then we go to Parliament's management and ask how it is possible that there are obviously completely different political salaries. That's interesting. Perhaps in this house we enjoy a special reputation that we get more paid than the liberals. Back to Mr. Kabas: 140 000 pp. – Mr Haigermoser, you and your unqualified calls! [[Abg. Haigermoser: For the release of intoxication!]] Mr. Kabas may have received the intoxication in his accounts somewhere in between. 140 000 S is expected to be 59 000 S: He pays 8 221 S Club contribution. I do not think it is uninteresting that the club contribution is included in the charges. But one should probably say that the club contribution is tax deductible – as with all. That means he gets half of it back. First injustice in the billing of Mr. Kabas. He claims to pay 48 000 S of the wage tax. Okay, that's what he pays monthly. It should be pointed out once and for all how much he really pays, but I do not want to talk about his tax compensation. It will be interesting if you look at the pension payments. Mr. Kabas pays 24 937 S to social security – that's not very little – and extra charges 11 000 S in his pension insurance from his civil profession. If you calculate this, Mr. Kabas comes up with a monthly pension scheme of over 30 000 s, which he himself pays. Now I ask you – you can calculate it –: How long does Mr. Kabas have to pay his pension – he might have stopped for a long time – if he is allowed to receive only 66 000 s anyway? That's all he can get. Calculate how much someone gets when he pays 30 000 S per month alone for pension insurance! And then you say that's a policy for the little people. Apparently it's easier in the pension then, because then you don't need to be a member anymore, because you don't have to be in public anymore, because then it's no longer necessary to stick to it. Mr Westenthaler! I make another claim that you can correct it in an actual correction. How does it look with the special payments? Did the numbers you call apply to the special payments? If you say they apply, then go out here and claim that. I say that the special payments are not taken into account in this amount. You can calculate how much remains if someone receives a payer of 180 000 s per month and the preferential tax rate for special payments is applied. If that's going to be the total annual salary, then you'll see that it's not 66 000 S, but a total of 100 000 S net. [[Call to the Freeman: Where is your upper limit? Do you have a ceiling? You're cashiers! The best example is that of Members of Parliament, Lichtenberger!]] It is a policy that is extremely unbelievable. Go out and disprove it! I say you have much more than this 66 000 S!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11219	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11240	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! Mr Trattner, there is no doubt that you have published a scheme that would provide income from public funds for social funds. What we doubt is that this money will ever reach and remain there over 66 000 s. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you're cashing for it!]] And evidence is on the table. First of all, it is understandable in Burgenland that this is not the case, but the Social Fund is above all a Social Fund for Burgenland delegates and politicians of the FPÖ, and in Vienna it is for Vienna's FPÖ politicians and in Lower Austria for Lower Austrian FPÖ politicians. The second is that there are backs of funds going into the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a chimary and nothing else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: In which areas?]] Mr Trattner! They are very professionally trained in this context. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You must have apologized before! Can you remember?]] You have a double accounting: a bookkeeping that you can present to the public, and a second bookkeeping that you cannot present to the public, and this includes the social funds and those donations that we have heard several times over the past few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I have spoken for a recent press release which I do not wish to abstain from the House. A three-quarters of an hour ago, the APA announced that the Public Prosecutor's Office against Justice Minister Böhmdorfer was established. I would now like to make very careful use of the words in this context and quote what is said about a recipient of references under the referee law in the APA – literally: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does this have to do with the referee law?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it's not that easy!]] The ads are currently being checked. There is no pre-examination yet, the First Prosecutor Dr. Kellner confirms. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: So!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the problem?]] And on top of that: "When a decision is taken on preliminary surveys, he cannot say that it would be a maximum of 'a few weeks', says the First Prosecutor." That is to say, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That means nothing!]] The Procuratorate shall determine whether a preliminary investigation is to be initiated and there shall be a formal decision. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now you're blaming!]] Mr Westenthaler, I don't think that's what I'm laughing at. In any democratic state, this would be a reason for the resignation of the Minister of Justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But you may find this ridiculous. This is your understanding of the rule of law. That is not to say less and no more, ladies and gentlemen, than that in the case of a genuine right of guidance, the investigative authorities have to take up reports against the chief chief. Ladies and gentlemen! I have written a letter to colleagues Westenthaler as well as to Mr Khol and Mr Van der Bellen, but also to my alternates in the Constitutional Committee before a quarter of an hour ago, in which I urge them to enter legal proceedings immediately so that they can no longer stand up for a democracy, even for a rule of law, in the future. What we want is for a judicial authority to be able to identify and determine without reporting obligation to the chief. And, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11387	Deputies! We're dealing with the referee law. I ask you to speak on the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11408	Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore invite you to establish a legal provision enabling a referee to comply with the obligation he has assumed with his duties. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP]] Mr President. I would seriously ask you not to stop a debate on such an important subject of democracy policy, the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure – and we can discuss every referee under the referee law – that a supreme body of federal execution, such as a Minister of Justice, cannot give instructions on its own matter, is not informed on its own, so as not to be able to provide information to its lawyer, and to establish a legal situation as it is of course for every rule of law and democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11457	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11481	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Kostelka, you claimed that the Freedom Party had a double accounting system: one that we are presenting, and one that lists the donations. I disagree very clearly with you: The Freedom Party has only one accounting system, where all revenue and expenditure are duly recorded.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11519	Mr Ing has also made a point of correcting the situation. Westenthaler. - Please. - Aha, okay. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A word report was that!]] Then the next one comes up in the line of speakers: Mr. Dr. Pilz. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Sorry, that was a misunderstanding. I thought it was an actual correction, but it was a normal speech contribution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (to the Abg. Dr. Pilz) Pillow, sit!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Wuff! Wuff!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Please, Mr Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11592	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr Kostelka does not really give a chance to expose himself. It is also left to everyone himself, in what way he exposes himself here, at least he leaves no chance out. There is a new quality in this terrible, world-shattering data abuse and peak scandal that the opposition parties have been desperately trying to construct for weeks and that is becoming more and more collapsing daily, because now a suspension after the other will be lifted and other things will show up in this context. [[Abg. Swimmlein: But the investigations continue!]] But so far, Mr Kostelka and his colleagues have always called for resignation. You said: If there's something about it, it's terrible! And if there is something on the table, if the investigations, preliminary surveys result, the consequences must be! – Today we have a new quality: Today, Kostelka has for the first time called for the resignation of the Federal Minister Dieter Böhmdorfer because no preliminary surveys have been initiated. That's what he told us earlier. He first quoted that no previous surveys have been initiated, and then asked Böhmdorfer to resign. The fact that you are doing this is really at your level, Mr Kostelka. Trust me! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: A dragdiwaberl!]] The problem is that this has method with you, and that is the objection to it: It has method in you that you simply go here, make allegations into the room, then don't take them back or take them back only if this tells you a court, as was the case in the causa of the Federal Managing Director of the FPÖ Trattner, in which you had to apologize before, because you claimed something wrong about him. And you will also have to do this with Federal Minister Böhmdorfer – I will remind you again and again – whom you have accused at a press conference that the telephones in his office and in the Ministry of Justice are illegally heard on certain signals. This is an immense accusation, but shows what attitude is behind it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Closer!]] With such "arguments", which you can't maintain at all, you throw at the Minister of Justice, attack and defamate him. At the end, however, you will always be left because the truth ultimately wins, Mr Kostelka. Remember that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And that's why we don't need any stagings of any actions that you want to accommodate quickly. What I miss is your party's answers to today's scandalous abuses, which exist in you, the answer to the question of how it can be that you pay only 56 S rent for your SPÖ party headquarters with 1 800 square meters in the city centre, in the best position, where everyone will normally pay between 200 and 250 S per square meter of rent – or a maximum of 58 S, that's not so clear, but these 2 S are no longer significant either. Why do you pay only a quarter of what a normal citizen or a company that hires itself there? In reality, this is a evident rental scandal that is present here, and you do not go into it at all! That's a scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Instead of riding any attacks against the Minister of Justice, make any claims that you really can't prove! Tell us why? Why don't you go here, you're not honest and say, Yes, we are representatives of tenants, so we also put up our rent and pay 250 S per square meter!Unknown term type: "%s".? Then you're credible. As long as this is not the case, you will never be able to act as representatives of tenants, Mr Kostelka! You can't do that because you don't have the credibility to do it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not where you interrupt, Mr President?- Oh, my God!]] You haven't told us how your party finances continue, with 350 million schilling...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11687	That's right, Member of Parliament. I've been waiting for the next sentence to come. Mr Ing. Westenthaler! I would draw your attention to the fact that we are talking about the referee law. I'm asking to get to the point!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11706	I'm already there: Relevant law, promotion of parties. You have announced at the beginning of the year that you will be on 26. A restructuring plan for your party bank will be presented on April 1. To this day, there's no such thing. To date, we do not know how it continues, except that more and more evidence is now emerging in the scandal of Bank Burgenland that it is party funding, party financing and possibly bribery. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] The connection will be very interesting. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Did we get the Lower Austrian financing concept?]] To date, you have not been able to explain to us, Mr Kostelka, as you are responsible to the public for the fact that the SPÖ has the luxury of fully paying two clubmen: The one is rewarded by the law of reference of the house with 170,000 s, and the second clubman receives 100,000 s as a normal parliamentarian, and the party pays him so that he earns as much as the first clubman, once again a "seventies" per month on it. So they have two clubmen each with a reference of 170 000 S. And because the SPÖ still has two relatively unknown, but also here in the room often-circuited federal business leaders, who also receive 100 000 S each as mandaters, the party pays once again 50 000 S per Federal Managing Director, so that Bures and Kuntzl disburs each 150,000 S. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Very charming! Now he's back in the beer tent!]] This alone accounts for 2.8 million schilling for the party subsidized from public funds, which you finance each year for Mr Gusenbauer, for Kuntzl and Bures from public funds. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: What is this about you?]] And that in a pleite of 350 million schilling! You throw the taxpayers' money out of the window with both hands, and we get you back and forth again!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11778	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11799	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I've been on the 10th. This year, Dr. Böhmdorfer made a statement of a case against Minister of Justice, and today the spokesman of the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office confirmed that the investigations against the Minister of Justice are under way. [[Call the ÖVP:to the referee law! To the referee law!]] The report on the investigations and the necessary decision on the judicial procedure will be made on the table by Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer. And then Justice Minister Böhmdorfer will have to decide what to do with the lawyer Böhmdorfer in court proceedings. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is simply and simply not just unbearable to justice! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's what the judge does!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's what the insidious judge does!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You say the untruth!]] Now it is about talking in this Parliament about the importance of lawyer Dr. Böhmdorfer for the system of party financing in Austria. The one procedure that APA is reporting today, the investigations against the Minister of Justice, that is the chief coward, that is the affair of Haider, Westenthaler, Böhmdorfer and, and, and. In the second affair, in the second procedure, which the APA has not yet reported and which I would like to briefly report, it is about party funding, about the breach of the party law. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Pilz!]] I've been on the 10th. In November, a second presentation of the case, also to the public prosecutor's office in Vienna, is due to suspicions of tax evasion; it is directed against Dr. Jörg Haider. The reason is very simple: A former conciple and present-day lawyer, who spent his draft years in the office of Böhmdorfer, also repeated to me personally his accusation that 5 million of funds had been transferred to Dr. Böhmdorfer in his firm under the law on the financing of the parties by the club director of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Everything was already in the paper!]] The Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office has resigned the announcement to the financial criminal authorities, and investigations are also being carried out here, even here the proceedings have already been initiated. [[Call the ÖVP: How do you know all this?]] This procedure runs against Dr. Jörg Haider, and I was officially informed by the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office as a scoreboard. I've been officially informed. The question now arises, Mr Trattner: Where do we find the 5 million black money of the Industrial Turnauer in your accounting? Where do we find these 5 million in the Trattner/Westenthaler Accounting Rule? They should be listed in the publications of the Vienna newspaper. They're not there! Where are the millions, Mr Westenthaler? Where did they flow? Who booked it? Where is it taken into account, and what have they been used for? We know the system coal enough. What we're just getting to know is the system Haider/Trattner/Westenthaler...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e11908	Deputy Pilz! I have alerted your two previous speakers to the fact that we are now negotiating the referee law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pilz, sit!]] I admit that the question of party funding is so obvious that one can take one or another trip in this direction, but now, as it were, a case of justice you are addressing, and concentrate solely on what I believe is not related to the subject of the negotiation. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No vote: Agenda item 4!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: We also talk about the party law!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Please read the agenda, Mr President.]] I would therefore ask you to focus your remarks on the referee law now. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Please, Mr Klubobmann. Van der Bellen, to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12006	Mr President. Very briefly: TOP 2: Reference Act, TOP 3: Promoting political education and so on, TOP 4: Party law. It's all being negotiated under one. That is clearly the agenda. We are not only talking about the referee law, but also about the party law.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12034	The objection has a right, Mr Van der Bellen. I have to admit that. Please continue your remarks, Mr Pilz, and focus on the subject of the agenda with all its points.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12064	Mr President. I appreciate that you have made this clear, because unfortunately this is not always and not at all usual in this House. Thank you! I continue my speech on the party law and I suspect that provisions of the party law have been violated by Dr. Haider, Dr. Böhmdorfer and others. Ladies and gentlemen! It does not matter whether the law on party financing has been broken. It does not matter whether the main suspect is the head of the Carinthian state, and it does not matter if he is a fellow suspect of the current Minister of Justice of the Republic of Austria. And the only excuse, the only liberal excuse, the party law does not provide for sanctions for it, is not an excuse, but an indication that there is a need for reform. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the situation of a law where, unlike the Federal Republic of Germany, in the event of a breach of the party's law, there are no criminal provisions in the case of illegal party financing? A totally impunity law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This law in its current form is an invitation to politicians of the type of colleague Westenthaler or of colleague Trattner to introduce a second set of accounts in order to be cautious. You didn't need a system of coal to invent a system of sharks, you're inventive enough. But I promise you: From the Bank Austria via the Raiffeisenbank to the Landeshypobank Klagenfurt, to the RBB Wolfsberg, to the Graz mutuals and many others, the books will no longer be closed and the traces of the payment flows will no longer be erased. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is only a matter of time until we know about the system of Haider-Westenthaler-Trattner as much as about the system Kohl. The only question that arises, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, is: How long have you been helping to cover the illegal party funding of the Freedom Party in parliamentary terms? What interest do you have in covering, covering and covering the coalition partner, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party? [[Abg. Brix: bowl!]] That's what I'm gonna end up with. Everyone knows for a long time that justice minister Böhmdorfer has become unbearable in his role. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I now call you the last reason why, for a few days in the next week, there will probably still be Mr Böhmdorfer in his capacity as Minister of Justice: because he is the lawyer who knows most about the illegal party financing and the black and blue accounts of the Freedom Party! He's at the head of the department as a co-consul. – That is the only reason why he is still Minister of Justice today. And this state can only end judicial investigations, police investigations and parliamentary investigations! Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! I don't know when, but I know it's going to be impossible for you sooner or later, to get under the black-blue carpet all that appears to your coalition partner. This carpet has got French, this carpet rips. The Causa Haider-Westenthaler-Trattner-Böhmdorfer will be examined and no coalition of this Republic can prevent this permanently. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12123	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the referee law, in 380 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Frieser, Dr. Krüger and comrades tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 6 of the draft law. In view of the fact that there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately leave the draft law and the title and receipt in 380 of the supplements as amended by the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Frieser, Dr. Krüger and comrades, and I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for it to be a sign of approval. – I see the unanimity. That is why the request has been accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We're going to fight like this first, and then it's unanimous!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But without a cast builder!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But without a cast farmer, because he's missing again!]] We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on the Promotion of Political Education and Journalism 1984, together with the title and entry into 381 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to the draft law in question, to give them a positive sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. I shall now vote on the draft federal law, which amends the party law, together with the title and receipt in 382 of the Supplements and seek the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – I notice: That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on a Federal Act amending the Federal Procurement Act 1997 (360 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12206	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Dr. Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12233	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He's talking again! Now tell me what you've done for four years!]] It is now about a four-party request, so it is likely that peace and balance will also come to the government parties when I come to the speaker's desk. It is now a subject which Social Democracy has taken up a long time ago and which essentially contains the core requirement of the Social Democrats, namely: that the disunity of regulations at the various levels of our state constitution – the federal level, the country level and, in part, the municipal awarding regulations at the municipal level – should be harmonised and transferred to a uniform federal awarding law. It should not be forgotten that the federal government or the public sector is generally the largest investor in Austria and that more than 200 billion schillings are distributed in investment volumes per year across the various procurement orders. It is therefore not to be seen that at the federal level we have an arrangement to maintain at nine different national levels nine different procurement arrangements, which are still different in the process and in the organisation and are also different in the construction of the various administrative authorities and, in the view of the Constitutional Court, were partly not constitutional. Therefore, this new regulation became necessary. However, given the need to deal intensively with this recast in order to bring about a reasonable regulation for the future, a request has been made which is now before us for the vote, which all four parties support and which says nothing but: Until the solution to the problem of uniform federal procurement regulations, the status quo should be safeguarded by constitutional law in order to ensure constitutional protection of the different rules in the countries as well. I see this as a success of our long-standing efforts. There has now been a deadline until 31. A possible harmonisation should be achieved in negotiations with the countries until August 2002. This is a sensible way, it is a constructive way, and such processes also show that we are very likely to be ready for a constructive opposition if you do not "overpass" us when we are involved in negotiations and when you try to find solutions with us. Then we are also willing to cooperate constructively in these solutions. We are constantly bringing alternative proposals to other legislative instruments, and it would certainly be appropriate and would be good for the government parties to involve us in the constructive work in other areas as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I see here an opportunity, in an interesting area, in an area which is not ideologically controversial, to standardise a system in a very practical area, in order to facilitate the administration of a reform of the administration in this area and ultimately to contribute to easier access for citizens, in particular the economy, to our administrative mechanisms. It would be appropriate to provide the economy with simple arrangements to speed up the procedure, simplify the procedure and make the administrative system as efficient as possible, accompanied by these procedures. In this sense, we will also give our consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12277	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12298	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I can follow the remarks made by my previous speaker. It is an important legal matter, and it is of major importance to the economy in particular. Only in contrast to my previous speaker do I have to say that it was not the Social Democrats who have always called for the harmonization of this legal matter, but that is a long-term call for the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After a long time, science and, above all, the bureaucracy have joined this demand for a uniforming of the right to award. We believe that we will be able to meet these demands by, in the coming spring, in the next half-year, striving to conduct constructive talks with all the parties involved in order to bring this to a good end. The content of the proposal – my predecessor outlined this briefly – is essentially only an extension of the current legal situation, which has become necessary both through a knowledge of the Constitutional Court and through a change – which is also provided for in the draft law – which has become necessary through a recognition of the European Court of Justice. I would like to stress: There were four-party negotiations in the run-up to this legislative proposal, which were conducted in an exceptionally constructive climate, which also led to a good outcome, with the result being, in the end, not yet a final result, but a preliminary one, because: Simply extending the current legal situation is not, as such, a real achievement. The Federal Chancellery has also sent in preparation for this bill two documents in review. First of all, one which provided for the creation of an independent authority under Article 129c B-VG in a way such as the independent Bundesasylsenat. Unfortunately, this did not find the approval in the review procedure that we would have wished for ourselves, therefore a second draft has been reviewed, which has provided for a constitutional guarantee of a special construction with senior Senate chairmen with judicial guarantees. This has not, in turn, found the opposition's approval, and we have therefore decided in these discussions to extend the current legal situation until 31.8.2002. I would like to make the following request in this regard, because we have also undertaken to bring some lines into these negotiations. [[Quoted print version removed]] I am pleased that there is a four-party agreement in this respect and wish me several such constructive talks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12412	The next item is the report by Mr Morak, State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12433	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government expressly supports the efforts towards a unification of Austrian procurement law. In particular, we welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by all four parliamentary parties. This also highlights, as we have now heard, the importance of other public interests, such as disability, social, employment and the environment, as well as the prevention of price agreements and women in accordance with EU law in this context. We are of course aware that this major reform project cannot be implemented from today to tomorrow, but as the above-mentioned knowledge of the Constitutional Court enters into force at the end of the year, there is a need for immediate action. The same applies to the implementation of the above-mentioned findings of the European Court of Justice. The Federal Government therefore very much welcomes the proposal made by the Constitutional Committee today. This makes the existing legal protection system in procurement law both in the federal and in the countries up to the 1st century. In September 2002, the Constitutional Court of Justice issued a term of time as provided for in the Constitutional Regulation. Within this time, the overall reform of procurement should be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12468	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Dr Krüger, I note that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer is sufficiently supported, is in an objective context with the matter of negotiation and is therefore also under negotiation. Please, Mr. Dr. Krüger.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12493	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We negotiate a consensual matter for a change, and it is unusually quiet in this House. – It is something strange, but it is an expression of the entire political dynamic: While it is endless to discuss whether a police officer has asked for a car mark, areas that are as important as the economy, such as procurement, are only discussed with subordinate importance. I should like to point out that this proposal has been drawn up on the basis of the so-called Ecopoint knowledge. In this ecopoint knowledge, the Constitutional Court decided on the complainant against the award of the Ministry of Transport's Ecopoints contract to Kapsch AG. This was a two-digit billion-height order. Ladies and gentlemen! This shows the whole dynamic, which shows the economic significance, the scope of the federal awarding system, of the awarding system at all. It was rightly said that we have several rights to award in Austria. We have a federal contract right, and we have nine individually different country award rights. Moreover, there is, of course, EU procurement law, and you know the general principle of law: that the directly applicable law of the European Union is going ahead with national law, according to the motto: Upstairs Unter! Now it is already unacceptable for the individual companies and groups of companies to pass through this entire past subject. I think I know what I'm talking about. As a lawyer, every second day I get any invitations to training seminars exclusively in the award. It has developed its own procurement services industry or service industry. This may be quite nice for the advisory professions, which also live on it, but this division of law is certainly not in the interest of the companies interested in awarding it. That is why it is very important that we get this uniform right of award, and that has been conjured by everyone. The Committee also agreed as much as possible in this respect. One thing I can say: In my view, the provision that we are adopting here today, namely a supplement to our federal constitution, is not necessarily a legitimate glamour. I can confess that in all openness. But all the parties in this House, including the Green Group, have recognized the economic need. The Constitutional Court is known to have granted an improvement period until the end of this year. All parties have recognised the urgent need for a provisional until 31. August of next year, but then, in cooperation with all parties and with the participation of the countries, a great deal should be done in the direction of a uniform procurement right.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12541	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12562	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In fact, it is true that a constitutional majority of the Constitutional Court does not unproblem democratically. The other solution would, however, mean legal uncertainty and, above all, indicate that the Federation, the Parliament, is not able to formulate a single negotiating position. At the same time, we know that not only in procurement law, but also in a number of other materials – I like to say: Thank God! – a progress in the legal system of the European Union is evident in the issues of equality between women, the non-discrimination of disabled people and the non-discrimination of people on the grounds of their ethnic origin and religion. In all these materials we will have a huge need for adaptation at a simple legal level in Austria. Based on historical federalism and the expressions of federalism, this means, for example, in labour and social law or also in procurement law, the need to adapt countless legislation on matter – with the uncertainty that this adjustment cannot take place at the same time, as the conference periods, voting requirements in all countries, in cities with their own statute differ. That is to say, on the one hand, we are at risk of condemning local authorities at one level or another, because they are too slow to adapt, and on the other hand – that is particularly dangerous – there is a risk that their legal protection will be different for citizens. That is why this procedure is unfair, but I have also seen no better solution in the present situation, and I see our green concerns keeping up in the same way as there is a four-party resolution request, which states the direction of the future negotiations. I believe that if we have serious negotiations with the countries, if we also give the countries time to counter their demands, then a very modern, reasonable new right of award can come out. I would very much like it to be rewarded in a constitutional manner also those businesses and businesses which take it seriously with the equality of women and with the reduction of all barriers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense, we agree with both this Constitutional Act and the four-party resolution request. Finally, I would like to stress that I also appreciate very much the negotiating climate that we have been able to preserve in the discussions on future constitutional reforms despite all the contradictions in this House, and I hope that, for example, on the issue of mass procedures, we will have a similar constructive outcome and, as a result, a good legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12613	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12634	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! High house! It has already been mentioned that it is a subject matter. The immediate occasion is a knowledge of the Constitutional Court, which shows that Parliament needs action. If Dr. Wittmann says that a federal award law has always been the intention of the Social Democratic Party, then I have to hit a little on the pult and can only say to it: I can't remember that. – I was there during the negotiations in 1997, so I know that the matter was not so clear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] – You weren’t there, Mr. Cot! I was there, that's why I know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler: I was at the review!]] However, one thing is important: Today, we should understand that this is a very sensitive matter, which the government has explained several times, to ensure the Austrian economy that the government intends to take back administrative measures and finally offer all its strength, but also all its intelligence and inner willingness, so that we can create a single federal procurement law, which, of course, is valid for all local authorities. I therefore consider this intention to be very important, because I believe first of all that this could reduce a sense of administrative burden, even though it can never be stopped, because it would also improve Austria's economic location in its attractiveness, because our businesses could have better access and perhaps also have less effort, and thirdly, it is a proper measure within the meaning of employment policy. Everything that our businesses can do better, faster, so that they can get to jobs, secure jobs, employment in the country, and therefore income for all of us. – I mean, this is a very reasonable thing that we should work out together. From my experience, I would like to refer briefly to some things. I particularly praise the commitment of our colleague Baumgartner-Gabitzer. It has made a great deal of effort in this regard, and I know that there are a lot of group interests in all areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that it makes sense to talk first of all about the limits laid down in the contract law. For example, we need to consider whether it is right that we still have the EUR 200 000 limit for supply and services for all futures and the EUR 5 million limit for construction contracts. I also believe that it is also important that we learn from the whole development especially in the field of reporting and reporting culture. If one company makes an offer, it would like to know relatively soon how the whole end ends up, and it would also like to know why it gets the supplement – that's okay – and why the other does not come to the train. This report is also an extremely controversial matter, and if we could better resolve it in the new law than it has been resolved so far, then, I believe, we are on a good path. The law must also be interpreted in such a way that it has the same effect throughout Austria and is compatible with EU law. – If we do all that, we have done good work. Today's legislative proposal is not unproblematic, even with regard to its extension, because of the constitutional provision. That's what we know, but it's, as already said, probably the only right way. The motion for a resolution is the step we have to take together, all four parties, so that we will find a suitable solution as soon as possible in the interests of the economy and thus in the interests of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12688	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12709	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It has already been mentioned by the previous speakers that it is a matter of consensus. Today's decision-making is a repair, even after the 1. In January 2002, the Council adopted a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the I am glad that this is a decision that lasts until the 1st century. ==References====External links== During this time, we have the opportunity to also give content to this law, which has been called upon by the individual political groups of this House. We will discuss this and then, if necessary, make such a decision. It seems essential to me that an examination of the restrictive subcontractor regime is carried out, that the best possible conditions are created to prevent price agreements. But, ladies and gentlemen, I also think it is very essential that measures be taken in the context of the reform of this law, which prevent calls for tenders – by establishing criteria that cannot be understood – from favouring very certain bidders. It seems essential to me that equal opportunities for tenderers is guaranteed. It is the legitimate desire of the economy and also the aim of this House to create a federal federal award law that allows for the rapid and legal award of contracts according to objective criteria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12742	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12764	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer has, as we believe, rightly been praised and praised for her efforts. However, it is also about taking advantage of the time that has been negotiated, so that material progress is made in relation to the legal provisions in the sense of a uniform federal award. That is why I would like to refer once again to the report of the working group on the fight against corruption in procurement. In this context, it is an extraordinary concern to commend someone else, especially since we have already reached this single resolution, namely Mr Keller from the Court of Auditors, who, I believe, has made great efforts in this working group. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it seems essential to me now that the man worked in the negotiations also finds his rainfall, and I think that it can still gnash properly in the bale. I'm actually back at the end of my remarks: I hope that the proposals made in this report will actually be implemented, because the prevention of price agreements could save billions a year not only in individual cases but also in total for the Republic of Austria. I am therefore saying this because I am already a little sorry to have the Minister of Finance constantly – especially via television, but also here in the House – to have him speak to the opposition at various summits, to meet with the members of the opposition parties and to expect counter-proposals, which would not be possible. - That's absolute nonsense. The opposition proposals, or at least the Greens, would be in this area – to combat corruption in the procurement sector, Mr State Secretary! – to save billions annually. [[Interim remark by State Secretary Dr. Finz]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This begins with the underground building cartel in Vienna and extends over the Baukartell in the Styria to the small municipalities, where the providers also agree. So-called asphalt cartels are formed there, as is the case in Salzburg and Styria. To this end, there are judicial procedures that have provided evidence. This can be traced to the smallest community. Therefore, the provisions should at last be strengthened and the possibility of improving the authority's ability to defend itself more effectively against the practices of providers. Therefore, proposals relating to the sphere of contracting authorities and the sphere of entrepreneurs have also been drawn up in this working group. That's a really smart thing. I am already excited how the political groups will then act in these negotiations. It is clear that the proposals of the opposition that we have sent here will also be in the room and will help save many billions of schilling over the legislative period. This should be done by the Minister of Finance. – Mr State Secretary! You know exactly. They're from the Court of Auditors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12833	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 360 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 point 1 of the joint motion for a resolution establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – I note the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – I note again that there is unanimity. The law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kostelka, Dr. Krüger, Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Petrovic and comrades on the creation of a uniform right of award for federal, regional and local authorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 45.) 6. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (337 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, with which overruns of expenditure approaches of Appendix I to the Federal Finance Act 2000 are approved (Bundesfinanzgesetz 2000 – BÜG 2000) (368 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (336 of the Supplements): The Federal Law, which amends the Federal Finance Act 2000 (2. BFG-Novelle 2000) (367 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12912	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Gradwelt has been mentioned. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e12940	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! If there is a need for a debated evidence of how this federal government operates its budgetary policy, we can assume that we have received one today. In order to avoid an increase in the agricultural sector in the 2001 budget beyond the 3 billion schilling limit, it has been decided to introduce a budget law, which will also be decided by the majority, which will make 700 million schilling more available to the sector. What for, ladies and gentlemen? – It is alleged, Mr Mitterlehner, to collect EU funds. These EU funds are provided for in a 5-year programme, i.e. five years ago we actually knew how to deal with the whole thing, what to finance, and we could have assessed what funds are needed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If priorities were set, it would have been necessary to make a decision to use these resources as a priority, then this 700 million schilling would not have been necessary – and not at all to collect EU funds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will not agree to this proposal either. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] But let me point out the following: If the ÖVP Group had taken cooperation seriously in recent years and had adopted constructive proposals in the field of agricultural support in recent years, and if, Mr Auer, the Minister for Agriculture, following a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schwarzenbergerer and Mr Gradwelt, had also been involved in 1996 and supported by the SPÖ, by the ÖVP, by the Liberals and also by the Greens, who are concerned with making the Austrian agricultural support system fairer and social, and with regard to job support, then it would not be necessary for us to have a budget transfer law of 700 million schilling for the year 2000 – and only for cosmetic and tactical considerations: in order not to find it in the budget in 2001 – to decide or be presented for decision. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I remember that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, in order to be able to build an ass bridge again, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, but also of the Freedom Party! You have the opportunity to prevent such Fauxpas as this – 700 million schilling more into the past year with a budget breach law – in the future by joining this resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13013	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Fink, may I ask you, as rapporteur, to present a print error correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13038	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I have submitted a print error correction to the Committee report 367 of the Supplements in writing: In point 3. concerning Article X. 1 Z 2 shall be inserted in accordance with the estimate 1/51818 of the estimate 1/53297. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13065	I would like to thank the rapporteur. Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13089	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These two summary points 6 and 7 of today's agenda deal with the 2000 budget and the second BFG-Novelle 2000. I'll hold on to this. Both points give an excellent witness to both the Minister of Finance and his State Secretary. It is a positive testimony to a very good financial policy and a clear signal, Mr Gradwelt – I do not see it at the moment – for forward-looking budgetary policy and budgetary truth. In this context, it is clear that: Since in the Government's proposal 337 of the Supplements there is a surplus of 327 million, which can still be covered by savings and reserves or additional revenue, we must speak of a point landing of the budget! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the submission of the novelle to the Federal Finance Act in 336 of the Supplements – the area on which critical comments have been made here – the condition is to take into account, in a variety of estimates, the additional revenue of this year as well as the additional expenditures that are just mentioned – avalanche disaster use of galtür, emergency vehicle procurement in Vienna, mobile wakerooms, heating aid to the countries and therefore through the countries to the needy – but also the EU co-financing funds – which were obviously subject to a particularly critical assessment by the colleague Gradwelt – in order to collect those EU funding provided under the 5a and 5b programmes. It can thus ensure an important measure, particularly in the field of rural areas. This leads me to the critical remark made by my previous speaker: Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, 700 million schillings are necessary to secure EU co-financing for the financial period 1995 to 1999. My previous speaker, the highly appreciated colleague Gradwelt, said: If the EIA had taken the cooperation seriously and if it had been taken seriously or implemented by the joint motion for a resolution, then that would not be necessary. Obviously he forgot something here: First of all, I would say to everyone that the ÖVP has always taken cooperation with the SPÖ seriously. However, I am not sure whether this has always been the case on the opposite side, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Edlinger and Dr. Mertel.]] Secondly, Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite rare if the current Minister of Finance or the current government is accused of having to do with funds for a past period. – There would be a question of whether the previous Minister of Finance has not taken the matter very seriously, namely, in the sense that he was not ready to make the necessary and also promised funds available in time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially from the point of view of an Upper Austrian, in whose federal state 2 050 approved 5b projects with 30 000 project participants, two thirds of which come from agriculture and 10,000 from other occupations in disadvantaged regions, which is now a compensation and promotion measure for disadvantaged regions, positive aspects and initiatives, I am somewhat surprised, Mr Gradwelt, that these measures are now being called into question. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: "The budget creation is based on realistic assumptions based on the forecasts of the economic research institutes IHS and Wifo," said Federal Minister Mag. ==References== In his budgetary speech on March 2000, he concluded: "Efficient use and the best possible distribution of tax money – that's what we want to stand for!" – There is nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13171	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. The desired speaking time is 3 minutes – is that right? – Well, I don't have a second pointer! [[Call:... better division]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13224	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I will try to keep my speaking time so that we will not need the second pointer. I am referring to a specific point in this draft law, namely the promotions in the field of education. Mr State Secretary, perhaps you can also give me an answer. These grants also concerned funding for the Waldorf schools. Together with the SPÖ, we have tabled an amendment to the budget after the government has planned to cut the budget for the Waldorf schools from 18 million to 9.9 million schilling in 2000. We felt that this reduction was not justified at the time. The opposition parties have agreed to this amendment, and the government parties have rejected it, so that the budget has now been reduced by just over 8 million schilling. Now comes a budget overrun law, in which we find the item "Promoting in the field of education" with an approach of 9 million schilling, and – see! – these 9 million schillings are the funding in the Waldorf area! As successful negotiations between the Waldorf schools and the Minister of Finance have apparently been successful, this item has now been budgeted. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a success!]] Now, of course, you can say that's a success. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why do you get upset?]] Why I'm excited, I'll tell you: Take a look at the 2001 budget! You know what's in there? – 9 million schilling! So it's the same situation again. I asked Mrs Gehrer in committee about this, and she announced: Well, then we're going to make a budget breach law again. That's when I wonder what's behind it. The whole thing also has a political dimension: If funding is granted in such a way that the organizations have to dance at the Minister's office and have to send out their budget in some way in serious negotiations, then of course you have a nice way of sanctioning decent or unaccustomed behavior accordingly. That's what we're talking about. We think that a budget should be in line with budgetary principles. A mistake one has once made to make now, that is completely absurd. We would ask to budget what appears to be necessary. A second comment, to another area: We would also like to agree with the increase in the prevention of addiction. However, since Mr Waneck, the Secretary of State, meant that he would be in a position to select the institutions which are being supported very closely and to encourage them only more for his interest, we do not see ourselves in a position to agree to this either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13275	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. Speech time: 240 seconds. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13296	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brosz! What is inconvenient about the fact that someone who is trying to promote talks with the promoter, who ultimately has to manage taxpayers? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] This applies not only to the Waldorf School, but also to all other promoters. We will also find a satisfactory solution for the year 2001, just as we found it for the year 2000. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] If you look at the detailed promotions of the past few years in the Social Ministries, you will see that the ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour – which do not necessarily need it – have received around 150 million Schilling funding for European integration in the last five years alone. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Check out the farm chamber!]] As far as the Waldorf schools are concerned, their maintenance – I am already with you – is one of our political demands and content. We will also look at this in the coming years. This point is therefore also part of the 2000 Budgetary Overrun Act. However, other positive measures are included here. It has already been mentioned – I do not want to interfere in the political after-effects of the old coalition, but colleagues Auer I am quite right in this point – that of course, especially in the field of agricultural support, but also in other areas of the Alt-Finanzminister Edlinger can be felt. Otherwise, I must say, the scale of the overrun shows the financial security of the 2000 budget and also the following: Some 100 million schillings are also spent on research and development. 100 million Schilling are used for structural measures, 5 million Schilling for environmental protection – an expert team led by Austria on the issue of Mochovce – and another 2 million Schilling for EU projects. Additional 41 million schillings are used for the colleges, 7 million schilling, as has already been said, for the Waldorf schools – a gratifying fact. And finally, what so powerfully prompted us in the morning, namely the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds, is part of the Budget Overrun Act. For the year 2000, 3.4 million schillings are planned, and we hope that we can follow this first step a second step. If you contribute to the fact that those who are currently being supported by a fee will get fewer in the future, then we will have sufficient resources for those areas that are now under-resourced in 2001, 2002 so that they can also benefit from higher and better funding.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13352	The next speaker is Mr Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13373	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is not the case that the Minister of Finance is responsible for the fact that in recent years the regions have been able to obtain too little funding, but, I know from Upper Austria, and it will probably be the same in other federal states, ideas and projects in the regions themselves have been defective in recent years. That was the reason why these European funding could not really be used optimally. That is what I dare to say here, and Mr Murauer of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will give me the right. We are jointly represented in a regional forum of our region, and we have by far succeeded in the last planning period of the 5b area there most of the funding in Upper Austria, because in our region there are just enough projects and enough ideas and innovations – from farmers to tourism to technological projects – and will also run again in the next period. - That's what I'm talking about. [[Abg. Böhacker: Excellent work!]] Of course! Thank you very much, my colleague. I must say, however, that this budget overrun law of course still has the structural benefits of the Social Democratic Coalition and can therefore be put very looser here. In principle, I believe that by means of this new savings package novel, which you fixed and decided on with the evening you will end next year. I do not wish to continue the details of the policy which will take place in the future, which have already been discussed yesterday, here for time-economic reasons, but of course I know that the way in which politics is made here will be quite peculiar again next year: Pensioners will receive 1.5 percent more, while the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State will approve of 4.5% more expenditure in the next budget and the other members of the government. This also proves again that it is not really saved, but that money is brought there, where one does not suspect his clientele, and is spent where one has the clienttel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13410	The next speaker is Mr Fink. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13444	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear Mrs. Dr. Mertel, I could talk about smoking again, but I could also tell you something about your former Minister of Finance if you want. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But Khol says that's something intimate!]] I can repeat that. Do you want me to do this? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No more!]] I'm surprised you understand, because when you got out of here last time, you said you didn't understand. I am therefore pleased that you now understand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. Khol said that's something intimate! Your clubman says that's something intimate!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'll report to the 2. Amendment to the Bundesfinanzgesetz 2000 (Federal Finance Act 2000), which is exactly on point 23. This concerns the city of Graz, which was declared the Capital of Culture for 2003. Of course, this declaration to the Capital of Culture is associated with certain costs. Preparation and settlement costs a certain sum of money. For this, 200 million schillings are planned. The city of Graz is the only city in Europe in 2003 which has been declared the capital of culture. In 2000, there were 13 cities that were declared capitals of culture. In order to avoid ambiguities in this regard, I can say that all the parties in Graz have voted in favour of the Declaration on the Capital of Culture. [[The speaker holds up a sheet of signatures.]] You all agree! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank everyone, including the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of State Morak, for their support. In this context, however, I should not like to mention that UNESCO has also awarded the capital Graz. Graz has the largest connected old town, and this was honoured by UNESCO. This old town is a cultural monument that is particularly protected. Ladies and gentlemen! In the mid-1970s, the then head of state Dr. Josef Krainer had the idea of building a trigon museum. At that time there was a plan, the location was fixed, and the financing was secured by reserves. Unfortunately, in 1995 the Austrian People's Party lost its country elections enormously. This has now been corrected again, but due to the loss of the ÖVP in 1995, the SPÖ has claimed and has taken over the cultural resort. Head of Culture became the Director-General out of Office, Deputy Head of State University Professor DDr. Schachner-Blazizek. With this acquisition of the cultural resort, the reserves have been gradually dissolved. The money was spent on other cultural events and was no longer held back for the Trigon House. Mr. Landeshauptmann Deputy Blazizek felt that the location did not fit that the money should not be spent. But now a cultural house is being built without having the means to do so. Now we need money for the Kunsthaus, and this Kunsthaus in the center of Graz, at the Mur, of course has to be financed. In this context, I would like to thank my wife's head of state Waltraud Klasnic for the fact that, in the negotiations with the new Federal Government, she has managed or achieved that the Federal Government's shares in the airport operating system.m.b.H. to be sold and the amount to be redeemed to be made available for the construction of the Kunsthaus. Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw attention to the fact that in 2003 not only will be much going on in Graz, but throughout Austria. There will again be a National Council election in 2003, in Graz municipal council elections and the opening of this Kunsthaus. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am looking for you and ask you and invite you to join us at the opening of this Kunsthaus in 2003 and visit the cultural capital Graz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13533	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13555	Mr President. High house! Mr Brosz asked why funding for general education in the field of Waldorf schools is increased by 9 million schilling. I can tell him: It is not 9 million schillings, but only 7 million schillings, because 2 million schillings are spent on the integration funds of Catholic private schools. But we have to say that, when we did on the 4th. A budget provisional was in force on February and no official negotiations normally conducted at that time took place and took place between two and three months. We therefore had to recapitulate all of this within a very short time. As a result, there have sometimes been inaccuracies – and I admit that without a doubt – but we are able, also due to the good economic development, to deal with these inaccuracies. I can assure you: The budget is fully in the plan. As the figures now stand, we will be delivering a proper budget. We will in no way deliver a higher deficit, and that is important. Mr Gartlehner! They have meant that we are excessively increasing expenditure while increasing other expenditure, such as expenditure on pension increases, on average. If we had left the laws as they were, then the total expenditure would have increased by a total of 72 billion schilling in 2001 and 2002. As a result of our budgetary measures, expenditure is only rising by 12 billion schilling. Even from EU documents, it can be deduced that we are saving expenditure considerably more. In the period 1999 to 2002, the public expenditure rate will fall by 4.6 percentage points of gross domestic product. The revenue ratio, on the other hand, will only fall by 2.1 percentage points over the same period. This proves that we really save more on the expenditure side than on the revenue side. This is therefore an expenditure-side approach. Furthermore, we can also prove that, contrary to many claims, the tax rate will fall over this period, by 0.3 percentage points. So the accusation that the government is not saving is not justified. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13591	Mr Edler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13612	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to see the second. Federal Finance Act Novelle 2000. I regret that the Federal Minister of Finance is not present today. Perhaps he still has a stomachache from yesterday's decisions, especially as regards housing non-profit. [[Contradict with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today you will probably also receive the information about the federal apartments – keyword: Rent reductions have been received, in particular the colleagues from the FPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen are very uncertain. Hundreds of colleagues have called us in the trade unions. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Gaugg, I am very interested in how your position will be on the spot. Ladies and gentlemen! This government can already distribute billions. If the budgets of Rudolf Edlinger were so bad that you have to decide on non-social savings packages, I am incomprehensible that you can already distribute billions. As my colleague, Mr Gradwelt, has already said, there is no social class at all, especially in the field of agriculture. As far as the need for a major catch-up in co-financing within the EU is concerned, you sometimes act very sloppy. Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly concerned with a position, and it is very encrypted in this bill. It is said that a total of 1 billion schilling is made liquid for galtür. I support this, no question at all, but there are millions of amounts, even up to a billion shillings for the defence of the state, and this at a time when the Small and medium-sized incomes and pensioners are saved. I just don't understand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One point I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen: I also welcome and hope that the executive will be equipped accordingly in terms of road safety, especially with regard to trucks. It was also said yesterday in the context of the debate on weight loss that is mostly overburdened. If the executive receives more money for the purchase of appropriate scales, then I can only welcome that. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I would like to say: Some of the measures adopted by this law are unsocial and incomprehensible. So you continue your non-social policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13672	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall therefore immediately proceed to the votes taken separately between the various committee proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft budget law 2000. To this end, MEPs have given Dr. Mr Kostelka and Mr Oellinger asked for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the motion, which have not yet been voted on. We now proceed to the separate vote on § 1 Proposal 1/02108 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this approach to the proposal to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. – This is decided by a majority. This is the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this proposal at third reading give a sign on this point. . I note that this proposal was also decided by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades on the introduction of a social phase in the more just distribution of agricultural support by the Minister for Agriculture. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this motion for a resolution by Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades to give a positive signal. – The request does not have the necessary majority, it is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the draft. Bundesfinanzgesetz-Novelle 2000 and title and entry in 367 of the Supplements. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this proposal give a sign on this point. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to this proposal at the third reading, give a similar sign. – This is the majority. The proposal is therefore also adopted by a majority of the third reading. 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Rüdiger Schender, Werner Amon and comrades concerning a federal law on the promotion of non-school youth education and youth work (Federal Youth Promotion Act) (350 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 270/A by Mr Werner Amon, Mag. Rüdiger Schenderand comrades concerning a federal law on the representation of the concerns of the youth (Federal Youth Representatives Act) (351 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13800	We shall now proceed to points 8 and 9 of today's agenda. The debate on these two points will be held under one. Reporting is not required. That is why we can go into the deliberations at once. The first speaker is Mr Brosz. According to his wish, I have set the clock at 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13828	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, briefly to the Federal Youth Representatives Act. We will, in the end, vote in favour of this motion for a law, especially as an amendment has been tabled, which can be carried by us from its point of view. The amendment tabled by the coalition partners concerns young people's representatives as well. I would like to strengthen this situation, and I will therefore make my own amendment, although, as I said, we will agree to this draft law. But I think you should put a sign there. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So far as the Youth Representatives Act. I'm now going to the Federal Youth Promotion Act. This is a matter in which we know in the past, too, that we are in principle in favour of a legal regulation. There were also conversations between the youth speakers. Finally, the draft law has failed to allow us, even though we still have amendments to it, to accept things that we support, because some important points are still missing for us. I would like to explain in a few points why. The financial impact of the Federal Youth Promotion Act is such that party youth organisations will not get any more money indisputably. So far, there have been 8 million schillings for the two organisations that were entitled, namely for the "Junge ÖVP" and the "Socialist Youth". Now there will be a little more than 15 million schilling. Of course, you still have to calculate the cost of the projects. In any case, this is an increase in funding in the field of party youth funding of at least 5 million schilling. I find this very interesting in connection with the savings that we discussed an hour ago. When it comes to other things, increases are apparently possible at once. So it's not about saving alone, but it only has to be sellable accordingly. At least I have been assured – and I must admit this to you, if this is now changed accordingly in the budget – that the institutions of related youth work are not made worse by a budgetary change, which was initially to be feared. Nevertheless, it must be noted that the party youth organisations are getting more from now on, while the related youth work gets equally much. Unfortunately – and this was also a very important point for us – it was not possible to anchor the field of open youth work also in the law. We would have imagined that a clear regulation is also being made for open youth work, for the ARGE youth centres. This is an association that coordinates the Austrian youth centres. It was not possible to mention this explicitly because, in the opinion of the Coalition Government, it simply would not have fit into the concept of the law. I believe that one should have been so flexible to see that open youth work is a different concept than interconnected youth work, and that one should have thought that a concept might not have been simply about everything. If one had had so much far-sighted to say that one cannot compare everything, then it would have been possible to explicitly define a promotion for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now come to a point where it is still really difficult for me to imagine how the regulation should work in practice. The value of youth funding shall be determined by number of members of the organisations. There is a provision – that has already been granted – that the membership lists are not disclosed. This cannot happen, because there is a data protection. So that's not going to happen. There is a regime in which members must be made credible. To this end, there should be implementing provisions. I cannot imagine that in view of the need for transparency, especially in the case of youth promotions – in the case of party youth promotions, but also among other organisations – it makes sense to create a regulation which is already foreseeable, that it will simply not be possible to determine clearly how many members have which organization. But that is the crucial criterion by which the level of support will be measured. There has so far been criticism by the Court of Auditors of the practice of granting funding, and I cannot imagine that this measure is now really approved by the Court of Auditors, especially since it is not possible to understand the density of the organisation in some way. You should have thought more about it. Finally, I would like to draw attention to my dissenting opinion, which contains a number of other important points. I can't do this anymore. Actually, I'm sorry we can't agree to a law on federal youth funding. We were in our opinion – and this was said again – that such a regulation should be made by law. But the law is not such that consent to it was possible for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13918	The amendment tabled by Mr Brosz on § 3 para. 1 has been referred, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e13966	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you the youth speaker of the SPÖ?]] Mr Westfal spoke again. Every time I recover, Mr. Westfal speaks to me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are the young speaker of the SPÖ?]] Or is it called Westerwelle?- Oh, my God! No, "Westwelle" is more cultivated, but it must be a German name.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14009	Please, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a matter of why you are addressing Westenthaler. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14024	A review of the legislative period to this Promotion Act... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're giving off such a "fine" youth speaker!]] Maybe he's called Westerwald. It must be a German name. But Mr. Klubobmann Khol proved in the debate on the right to name the importance of his name when he said that it was an "orchiden theme". So it doesn't matter if you're called Westerwald, Westerwelle, Westfal or even Westenthaler, that doesn't matter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Youth Spokesman! Delicious!]] I would like to say something about the development of these two laws, the Youth Promotion Act and the Youth Representatives Act. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: ( towards SPÖ) The best youth speaker you ever had! That's where the chickens laugh!]] A brief review of the legislative period: The important preparatory work on this law has been done here in the House. Youth promotion has been a point of dispute for years. The funds for this have so far been allocated in accordance with the so-called Federal Youth Plan. ==References== The report on the situation of young people was presented to the National Council on 3 March 1999 by the former Minister of Family Affairs. It reflected the foundations of child and youth work in Austria on a wide range of issues in order to derive from it the necessary criteria for youth policy action and follow-up to target and needs-based use of public funds. Conditions under which child and youth work takes place have been analysed and the need for child and youth work has been outlined on the basis of the description of the leisure situation and the current offers. That was compared. At the same time, the question of the political participation of children and young people and their impact was examined. In addition, an international comparison of the Youth Promotion Act, the Right, was made. At the time, we decided in the Family Committee to discuss this report in detail in a subcommittee, of course, with the involvement of experts and representatives of youth organisations. I would therefore like to stress that it was a great concern for SPÖ and its youth organisations to develop youth participation and participation and to bring federal youth support to a new basis. In this context, I would like to refer to a petition which had already been brought by the Socialist Youth Swordberg in April 1998 and was addressed to the National Council by the then spokesperson Brigitte Tegischer and by the SPÖ members Gabriele Binder and Kurt Gässner. It called for the promotion of youth participation and youth participation models. Furthermore – and this is very important – uniform youth promotion rules have been required throughout the country. This was also the basis for work in the then Subcommittee and then in the Family Committee. This led to the comprehensive motion for a resolution by the SPÖ and the ÖVP. The main points in this – I would like to quote some of them – were: to promote interconnected youth promotion and representation as well as open youth work in the future, on the basis of a Youth Promotion Act; that youth organisations must meet the following conditions: the commitment to the democratic Republic of Austria and to the fundamental values of peace, freedom and parliamentary democracy, human rights, the rule of law, as well as the daily activities of the association. I mean, that's an important demand – especially in times like this. Another requirement was that the related youth work should include a uniform qualitative approach and not just a sub-area and that democratic association structures should be aimed at young people, young people and young people. It is essential and worth mentioning that the preliminary talks took place with the representatives of the youth organisations. For the SPÖ, it was also important that open youth work should be promoted accordingly and enshrined in the youth representation. It is also crucial for the SPÖ that associations without their own legal personality – above all the Austrian trade union youth – are involved in the promotion and that the budget funding has now been increased to 93 million schilling funding by means of an amendment in the Committee. Finally, I would like to stress that the Federal Youth Office now has a position similar to that of all other stakeholders, i.e. equal to the other representatives of the interest with the right of assessment. The SPÖ can therefore give its approval to these two draft laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14104	The next speaker is Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14126	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have two proposals for decision-making. These are two proposals for initiative which deal with the Federal Youth Representatives Act and the Federal Youth Promotion Act. First of all, I would like to focus on why we are now putting youth promotion and youth representation into two laws. I think that, on the one hand, this will bring more legal certainty to youth organisations and to youth work as a whole, and I believe that this is, on the other hand, the result of a long and intensive debate that we have been conducting for several years. The situation, as we had in the past, that, in fact, the promotion of youth, in particular those relating to the related youth work, has taken place over the Austrian Federal Youth Ring, may have had a certain sense in the previous years, is simply no longer contemporary due to the various situations that we have in the youth organizations. It may not be that membership in an association is in fact a prerequisite for being promoted as a related youth organisation. We hereby reject this new law on youth promotion. Mr Brosz has criticized the fact that the number of members is not sufficient for the allocation of funds, which is correct. It is also not the only criterion, but it is an essential criterion for whether or not to promote interconnected youth organisations, because the essence of an association is that there is a connection in any form – and that is the big difference to open youth work. They criticise that we do not grant basic support to the umbrella organisations of open youth work with this funding law. – This is quite simply in the nature of the thing that we cannot determine in this way how many such umbrella organisations justify that no wild growth arises. We would then have to grant basic support to each of these newly created roof organisations. But, of course, this Youth Promotion Act also provides for the promotion of open youth work. The corresponding directives are already in preparation. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for also increasing the resources for open youth work, for which youth work after the free promotion has been increased, so that a certain amount of pressure has been removed. This is a really great thing, especially in times when money has to be handled very carefully. – Thank you, Minister of State! [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and the Free Trade Unions.]] We have already held a debate in the mid-1990s, in which we said that the structure must be safeguarded in particular for interconnected youth organisations and youth work. This was also an important point in the resolution of the National Council from the previous legislative period. We are now stating that there is a 50 percent basic funding for youth work, but that projects can also be financed – without cover. I believe that we are actually taking into account the wishes of many youth organisations with which we have negotiated, regardless of whether they are Catholic youth, path finders and path finders of Austria or the Alpenvereinsjugend. With the Federal Youth Representatives Act, which we will adopt today, we will create something that is also unique internationally, namely a youth representation on a legal basis. This youth representation is equal to the legal interests of workers, economic operators, farmers and seniors in the concerns of young people in our country, and this is a quantum leap. This is a quantum leap in relation to the serious participation of young people, the participation in political decisions. I think that's getting more and more important. If you look at demographic development, if you look at the debates on pension reforms, you can see that a serious representation of the Austrian youth is becoming more and more important. In the summer of 1998, I raised the demand for such a Federal Youth Representative and Federal Youth Promotion Act, where Wolfgang Fasching, a journalist to be attributed to social democracy, wrote an interesting comment in the "Standard". Under the title "Lobby urgently sought" Wolfgang Fasching writes, who, I believe, also worked for the children's friends in the Bundesjugendring: "Just in this situation" – he refers to the growing importance of youth representation – "a strong youth lobby would be extremely important to bring their concerns into politics. This could also have been the Bundesjugendring because it covers from left to right, from religious to worldly, from bidder to omitted a wide range of organizations and associations. It's not him alone." Then he writes: "To abolish him and establish a strong lobby for all young people together with the high school, the student representation and other youth-related groups, is therefore useful. Even a reform could no longer save the Bundesjugendring. Too often there has been talk of changes without more than cosmetic corrections. But a new youth representative should be careful not to suffer the same fate." I think it's good that we're deciding on this law with at least three parties today. I very much regret that the Greens are not going along, but they are likely to do so in the absence of their own youth organisations. I am glad that we can achieve a three-party agreement. We work together to ensure that this Austrian youth representation carries out its tasks in the sense of the Austrian youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14205	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14226	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is interesting to note the problems and concerns that Mrs President-in-Office of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has to face when she speaks here in front of the House on youth issues. She thinks it's necessary to think about any name games. I don't want to comment on that any more. The House will make itself a picture of its qualifications in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Well, well!]] But what would interest me – because I just saw him sitting up there, Robert Pichler of Socialist Youth – is: What do you say to such a youth speaker of your party in the House? I am for the fact that the woman's youth spokesperson of the SPÖ often appears as such, the woman's mule or torture – no matter what, with "M" her name begins, I think. [[Abg. Brosz: Is that funny?]] But back to the law, to the two draft laws. I believe that these two laws are a milestone in youth work. Today, we are adopting the Federal Youth Promotion Act and the Federal Youth Representative Act, and with it, abuses that have existed for decades around the Austrian Bundesjugendring are finally remedied. As far as the Bundesjugendring is concerned, a umbrella association has received a subsidy of 50, 60 million schilling and more and has then given these funds to its members in Wildwestmanier, a few millions have moved there, a few 100 000 S there, has determined for themselves who gets what, how much who gets, who gets nothing, who is his members. This is a fact that is simply no longer sustainable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In decades of socialist government policy, you have maintained this scandalous state. The Court of Auditors, too, has always criticised this. Through the new Federal Youth Promotion Act, we will achieve a transparent, comprehensible, just, fair solution. There will be a fair promotion of youth work, there will be a promotion of interconnected youth work. That is, I think, something that youth organisations have really earned throughout the spectrum. However, it is also important – and this has been clearly articulated as a wish in the discussions with the youth organisations – that we wish to make a commitment to the promotion of the youth organisations of ethnic groups. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting two laws of young people and of young people. There are two laws negotiated by the representatives of the various youth organizations. That is why I would like to express my thanks to the negotiating youth organisations. I also do not want to thank you here for the good and constructive cooperation with the socialist youth, but also for the trade union youth. I think we have had a very constructive dialogue with all the interlocutors. We have really managed to draw up a law of young people for young people. That is why I believe that this is a really good result and a good day for youth work in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of my remarks, I should like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14353	The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Saviour and colleagues and the amendment that has already been announced by Mr Amon have been sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14378	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schender, instead of pooling around here, you should be happy about the two laws we're going to decide. Ladies and gentlemen! Of yesterday's 90 changes to the law on social reduction, we can count on a hand that does not also affect the deterioration of children and young people. Any political decision – from building a road to wage policy – also affects the lives of children and young people. With the horrors decided yesterday, you delete a basic value in your vocabulary: the basic value of equality. How do we develop the talents and gifts of all, if not in a society that treats us equally? It is not about uniform lifestyles or uniform cultures, but about real equality. It is about equal appreciation, equal opportunities for full life. I have the feeling that you did this on purpose yesterday. They have deliberately adopted this basic value. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That makes me very affected. On the other hand, a small view of the light is the two youth laws that we will adopt today. After intensive preparatory work by the Social Democrats – Mr Mertel has already discussed this sufficiently before, it is a long time ago – you, colleague Amon, colleague Schender, have now also realized that youth needs a legal representation and new regulated financial basis for their daily work. Now I'm going to the Representative's Act. With the Federal Youth Representatives Act, the young people in Austria – like the elderly – finally receive their own representation of interests, which in all youth-related matters is equivalent to the legal interests of workers, the economy and agriculture. These interests are perceived by a so-called Federal Youth Office. This includes representatives of interconnected youth organisations, the ÖH, the Federal Schools' Office, the State Youth Advisory Councils and, on our massive pressure, also representatives of the legally recognized groups of Austria and representatives of the institutions of open youth work. There are a number of tasks to be carried out for this Federal Youth Office. It can advise the government on youth issues. It can comment on legislative and regulatory drafts and make itself proposals, for example in the field of education policy. In the negotiations – for which I am also grateful that they have failed so constructively – it was also possible to achieve that an age limit of 30 years should not be exceeded, for young professionals are such a matter, and that the representatives of open youth work, which has always been a major concern to us, can be represented at least in the general assembly. This federal platform of the most diverse youth organisations is really a first real opportunity for young people to take part in their own future, provided that the black and blue government generally again places more emphasis on legislative advice and opinions of the stakeholders and not, as in recent times, ruck, zuck passes over it and adopts Husch-Pfusch laws. Here is also my criticism: Unfortunately, there has been no review of these two draft laws. [[Abg. Steibl: This has been discussed for years!]] No, no – you could have done this anyway. If this style were to continue, perhaps the creation of this Federal Youth Office would be a youth-political fig leaf. But it's not supposed to happen. You will surely take care of it, and we will see to it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We social democrats confess to all kinds of interests, and we take their opinion on draft laws seriously and let them always get involved in our reflections. We are creating the legal basis for crime and co-determination today, although this is not enough for the comprehensive participation of children and young people. At the end of the day, I'll talk about it very briefly. Now on youth promotion, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is, of course, taken into account – and this has already been said today – that the traditional federal youth plan was no longer to be maintained with its rigid distribution of money, and the Court of Auditors - as has already been said - has already criticized this in the past legislative period, which led to our motion for a resolution, which was a common one. According to the law, beneficiaries can be related youth organisations as well as youth groups, youth initiatives and individuals and, of course, open youth institutions. It was important to us – and Mr Mertel has already said this – the commitment to the democratic Republic of Austria, to the rule of law and to human rights. It was successful – thank you, Robert! – to include the Austrian trade union youth, who had not been intended before, and also youth organisations without their own legal personality. [[towards a representative of the trade union youth sitting on the gallery]] We believe it is important that the decoupling of the party youth organisations as well as the trade union youth has been done through clearly defined subsidies. You will have to charge 50 percent of the funding via projects anyway. Under certain conditions, the related youth organisations will now receive basic support. When it comes to project funding, we regret that it has become a kann-destination. We would have liked this to be included in project funding. This has now become a kann-destination. We then negotiated, and at least a committee was established, which stated that project funding should be based on the level of basic funding. The award of the project funding is subject to guidelines. I am grateful that we young speakers can also be involved in the preparation of these guidelines, as I have been told. Unfortunately, we have not succeeded in including the Bundesjugendring in that too, but perhaps that is still the case. Representatives of the countries may also be present. These directives will be crucial for the award of project support. Of course, we will be careful to ensure that these are complied with accordingly. A major concern – I would like to say that at the end of the day – is our real youth participation and youth participation. There will be a Youth Democracy Package request from SPÖ, in which many areas are summarized, which we can discuss in the Family Committee. I believe that we Social Democrats have laid the foundations for the laws to be adopted today by means of our preliminary work, but only on the basis of these two laws the aim is far from yet to be achieved, namely that children and young people should be co-determination and co-decision in the community as well as in the federation. I am already looking forward to the discussions in the Family Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14432	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14454	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations, I am quite satisfied that a broad consensus can be found here today in the National Council for the adoption of the Federal Youth Representatives Act and the Federal Youth Promotion Act. I believe that it must be important for a state to involve the youth from the very beginning, properly and comprehensively, and also in the awareness that youth problems are not a one-way road, but a cross-sectional matter. I would like to thank all the young speakers who thanked me for implementing retranslation measures in my room for the free promotion of youth in relation to the original 2001/2002 budget plan. I know that only about 10 percent of all young people are involved in organisations and the majority of young people only participate in individual projects, only temporarily in the sense of genuine participation in society and are more likely to be found in the free youth scene. It was therefore my concern to promote this area to the same extent as in 1999 and, contrary to the other directives, to save an average of 10 per cent and then 3 per cent in the ministries, not to save in this area, but to make the funding available. According to demographic developments, it is unfortunately a fact that the proportion of young people in our population pyramid is getting smaller and the age overhang is increasing. It is therefore an important concern to further involve and promote the young, ever smaller, sustainable layer of our society in the future. In my position as Minister, too, I consider it quite gratifying that my home country, Carinthia and other federal states, reduce the electoral age for young people in municipal elections and thus take a further step towards bringing young people into political education at an early stage, sharpening their sensory capacity and involving them responsibly. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at today's opinion polls, printed in an Austrian newspaper, I mean that we don't need politicians to be proud of the results, but rather break our minds on why the public always feel that young people are not really interested in politics and don't participate. Ladies and gentlemen! Here I can give you a brief quote from the Shell study from Germany and the Third Austrian Youth Report: "Not the young people are interested in the policy, but they assume, on the contrary, that policy is not interested in them. (Youth 97, Charge 1997, page 17) The young people don't see their interests in adult policy enough – more yet, they think they don't even care about them!" Ladies and gentlemen! This should give us thought, and this should also move us to implement the funds, projects and support measures in this area in the future in such a way that we can better involve young people in the circle of politics and in the design of the future of our society. I am also quite satisfied that there are many measures in the Federal Youth Funding Act that are very important to me as Minister of Social Affairs. In particular, I should like to point out that research, youth information and prevention agencies are included in the law, and in particular that I am particularly proud of the fact that I am now also expressive until the integration of the disabled into the Federal Youth Promotion Act appears. Ladies and gentlemen! A new, future-looking society will be measured by how it deals with disabled people from youth to age. Mrs Pre-Revelation! I do not think that this federal government has adopted the principle of equality. In particular, the two proposals for initiative today and the broad consensus found here in Parliament between opposition and government parties, and hopefully also in the vote, are proof that the entire Austrian Parliament will continue to devote itself to the appreciation, equality and social concerns of this society in the future. As the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations, I think we can be proud that we provide our young people and youth organisations with a basic funding that makes youth work Austria-wide on a new, forward-looking basis, and that we give young people in Austria a right of participation in the interests of the other generations, starting with the involvement in assessment procedures, representation in communities in some federal states and universities, to integration into socially important and relevant social partners. In the future, the youth will find a better-ordered field in Austria than the youth of many other European nations, as I was able to see in my regret at the Youth Ministerial Conference in Brussels, in order to remain financially secure for the future of our society. I believe that this day for youth promotion in Austria is a good day.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14515	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14536	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A brief comment on Mr Heinisch-Hosek's speech. For me, it was a little surprising that one sued colleagues of the polemics and then delivered one's own speech, which is protesting against polemics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would now like to make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! With today's decisions on the Federal Youth Representatives Act and the Federal Youth Promotion Act, we take the concerns of young people seriously. On the one hand, their views are taken into account in political decisions, and on the other hand, support is based on objective, controllable and comprehensible criteria. I should like to point out a specific example of successful youth work by a youth organisation which will be treated more justly by today's decisions in the future. The Austrian rural youth is characterised by cultural, social, visual and rural involvement. The Austrian youth with about 1 100 local groups held 26,000 events in 1998 with more than half a million, i.e. more than 500,000 visitors. In Upper Austria, for example, last year, in 1999 the 200 local groups held more than 10,000 events with about 133 000 visitors. This is the youth work that promotes the concerns and interests of young people. With today's decisions we make the sentence "Youth is our future" serious. And above all: We're doing acts! I thank all those who have contributed with their work.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14677	I would ask you to consider in the amendment whether it is really called "Church and Religious Community" or "Church or Religious Community". The next speaker was Mr Graf. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14707	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we have a legislative matter to negotiate, on which the debate until now, according to my opinion, was not particularly polemic. Since the youth work has also accompanied me because of my previous work in the National Council, I try to convince colleagues of the Greens once again at this point. I am thank God no longer youth representatives – not because I would have liked to, but it must also be a question of age, whether you can still do credible youth work. I am very glad that we have young Members who have taken over this, and I was finally able to give it up at the age of 38. Nevertheless, I spoke on behalf of my colleague, Mr Mertel, because we have had a lot of work on it and a lot has happened in the past. I will try to convince colleagues from the Green Group that this should and could be carried out. I don't think we're too far apart. I have read your opinion very carefully and share many concerns that you have expressed. If you read my 1998 own-initiative proposal and the points that have already been explained before, you will notice that I have also dealt with precisely these problems. But you also have to recognize realities, and I believe that if you look at the two templates of today, you also have to ask yourself the question: What would have been the alternative or what is the alternative? The real alternative today is the Ist-Stand. In my view, however, the state of the ist is not an alternative, because the state of the ist does not represent what I imagine as a democratic political, a rule of law. On the one hand, the Istan stand has built on exclusion or exclusion from democratic will-building, to a great extent motivated by financial considerations, and on the other hand, youth work has always been seen only along with the distribution struggle for perhaps too little money available. In view of this, it is already a quantum leap if, at least once, one creates a legal basis for the fact that it is not an exclusion by law or by written standards, but that participation and cooperation instead of exclusion have now been established on the principle that youth work is experienced in this respect by the rule of law, but also by democratization. That alone is a very important step! When I heard that they worked intensively for many years, I had to laugh. We have perhaps always debated this politically, even here in the House, because of the majority of relations, but we have not really worked or achieved implementations. The youth organizations were also more devoted to the distribution struggles and the question of how to keep the competition from the body so that one does not have to share the cake with several. In this context, exclusion was quite a good means and played with it. So we have not actually had the Animo to make real changes, because this could have led to a reduction in our own financial base. That was always there, and that was the state of the art, and we ended it with these two laws at least once in substantial parts, I say. The democratization is important to me, it is a very high quality. The legal claims enshrined in these two laws are also a great asset. I am not a friend of basic support, but realistically there was no alternative, otherwise there would have been no majority in this House at all. But free handwriting could be realized in so far as a mandatory part of the project funding is also provided for in the basic funding and so at least in this direction is the right way to go. Many other good suggestions have yet to come, all of which have been tried to install. I think that's a quantum leap in youth work, and we did it. Whoever is not on board today would have actually only wanted one, namely to continue to write the state of Ist, or he would have put a completely utopian demand in the knowledge that there is no majority here in this House. I mean, you have to look closely at youth representation and youth promotion next year to see how it develops how cooperation works. The Youth Office also builds in its legal provisions on the need to do something to each other and not to act against each other or in an alien way, for example through rotating Presidency activity and so on and so on, and it perhaps for the first time gives the youth a speech tube, so that more things are needed for youth work – the Minister of Social Affairs has already said it; there are good approaches there and there – can be better implemented. I have always been a follower of a reduction in the electoral age, because I have had the highest personal experience that you will only really be heard if you have a vote. This is the only way to be heard, so you have to give voice to the one you want to hear. I am disappointed by many youth organisations who are constantly opposed to a reduction in the electoral age. In part, this is also done by the youth organization in our party. Therefore, we now have to do persuasion work – everyone together – because there are always the same arguments when it comes to excluding any population group from the right to vote. This was so when the women were excluded from the right to vote when the electoral age was still relatively high, whether it was a right to vote or not, whether the electoral age was relatively high: The people who were allowed to vote have always determined why the others are too stupid to have too little experience and so on in order to exercise the right to vote. This is the wrong approach, and I believe that one has to give the youth organisations the opportunity to create a truly representative will-building in this direction. Then, in a second step, we will definitely bring about legal changes in these matters. The money is secondary in this question. The co-determination and the evasion are the primary. If we perhaps manage to end this bill with pure distribution struggles, misunderstanded competitive thinking, then it is really a milestone. That is why I ask the Greens to be there too, because this law should now put the common ground before the end of the separation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14773	The two amendments tabled by Mr Amon and Mr Schender to 270 of the Supplements and to 269 of the Supplements are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Next word: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14798	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Today, if we regulate the youth representation and the promotion of youth law, that is, I think, one of the few positive signals of the policy of these days. We are thus creating a contemporary and comprehensive opportunity for young people's organisations to participate and at the same time to recognise their youth work for our society and, of course, for our youth. Ladies and gentlemen! With today's law, we guarantee that young people's concerns will be given greater attention in the future, and I think that's good that way. In this way I do not disagree with the Minister of State, who meant that we would have a good day for Austria today at this item on the agenda. That is why my group, the Socialist Group, is supporting these two legislative proposals. Ladies and gentlemen! The participation of young people is important in all areas of society, especially in working life. As a youth representative when, for example, there was no Youth Trust Council Act, I know what I am talking about, since the creation of the Youth Trust Council Act in 1973 tens of thousands of youth representatives have tried – and many are still there today – to perceive the interests of the youth workers and the apprentices in particular. If, by law, the Austrian trade union youth is now represented as a representative of the working youth and apprentices in the new office of the Federal Youth Office with its seat and voice – alongside others – then the importance of the trade union representation of the youth in the ÖGB is appreciated. I think that is also good, ladies and gentlemen. But youth work needs support – not only spiritual support, not only support from the high house’s speaker’s desk, but also financial support. That is why the second bill, the Federal Youth Promotion Act, the approval of my group, the Social Democrats here in the House. Ladies, ladies! If now this law with 1. In January 2001, it would be good, Mr Federal Minister, if the funding directives described in § 8 were to come into force. Will you do that? – I assume that the preparatory work is already in progress, as we have heard. My question to you, Mr Federal Minister: Are you willing to include representatives of the Austrian Federal Youth Ring in their preparation, as requested in a letter to you recently? – I would ask you perhaps to express your opinion briefly. You have two options: In fact, they could present final directives and say: So it is! or you could include the competence and knowledge of the Austrian Federal Youth Ring, as it has just demanded, in the consultation and in the design and then present a coordinated directive. I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, not to miss out on the way you intend to go. I hope that you will decide on the second path, namely the integration of the Austrian Federal Youth Ring in the design of directives. This would take into account at least your statements, which you made at the beginning of your term of office as Minister of the Federal Government, that you were interested in dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders, and we could then realize that you were serious at the time. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a sentence on Mr Amon's statements, which the People's Party has said here, why the People's Party is satisfied with these legislative proposals. I can only welcome the fact that one of the amendments also made it clear that there should also be an age limit for youth representatives in the new representation, so that they should be under 30 years of age. I remember the discussion in the committee, where you had a few concerns about this, when the Federal Minister considered this 30-year age limit to be useful. I am pleased that this solution has succeeded. It does not require that it should be so, but I assume that if your name is on the request, you will also guarantee that this will be taken seriously from your side, from your youth organisations. I would like to thank you in total for the willingness to give us the opportunity to cooperate in the legislative process and in the legislative proposal, and I ask the Federal Minister to make another comment on the subject of directive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14855	The Federal Minister has once again spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14876	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can inform Mr Riepl here that I have just the letter signed today to the Secretary-General of the Austrian Federal Youth Ring, after which she will be invited to the meeting for next week. So I'm going to live up to the wish. My staff from the department have researched all the existing guidelines, have also been involved in the Youth Welfare Act and will present what they have now developed next week to the invited Austrian Federal Youth Ring and also to all other relevant youth organisations so that they can also bring in their experience from their point of view and from the side of youth work. So, I believe, we will succeed in getting the guidelines for the promotion timely with 1. January 2001 to be adopted. Mr Riepl! Both of us today are probably also painfully aware that sometime at the age of 18, we have had no understanding that 35-year-olds should represent us. I therefore believe that young people are also best represented and most competent of young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14930	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e14952	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Love adult youth representatives! [[Abg. Dr Mertel: You have become a great victim as Chairman of the Committee!]] So it is, Madam President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's youth is often accused of being politically disinterested or, as a whole, social-politically disinterested. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This shows more and more often and more clearly in studies, but also in personal discussions, that this is not the case. However, young people increasingly want an active right of participation, they want to be able to build on their own future and not just to be the passive recipients of laws and political decisions, because in reality it is especially the young people who are particularly affected by the laws and all other state measures, and in fact it is the young people who will make the greatest contribution to safeguarding our future. So it must be a matter of course to give young people the chance of co-determination. I consider that there is an open desire for a representative of the youth to be a positive sign. It means to me that many young people are willing to engage in politics and community. It means that the youth does not want to be determined foreignly, but has concrete ideas of its own future and of living together with older and coming generations and wants to implement and shape it. It is indeed urgent to create an efficient, representative and operational opportunity for participation. This requirement is met by the Federal Law on the Representation of Youth’s Interests. It will ensure the representation of young people's concerns and the advice of policy-makers in all youth-related areas. This is the first formal and federally anchored representation of interest for the youth. It is of great importance to secure the generation agreement. I hope that a process will be set in motion, namely that young people will take advantage of this new opportunity and take advantage of its right to take part in their own future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This could open up to some of the so far limited perspectives of the legislators, colleagues, and the executives for the concerns of young people and lead to equality between generations. However, this could also lead some of the young people who have been politically threatened so far to participate in the political process, to take on and assume the role within society and thus to become more responsible and considerate between generations. This process is supported, accompanied by youth associations and youth organisations, and often from there is also the cause. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Youth associations thus take on an important social policy task by making out-of-school youth education and youth work significant. To that end, I see the re-regulation of the Federal Youth Fund as an important element. Finally, it creates clear, transparent and comprehensible directives to promote continuous youth work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact that there have always been difficulties in distributing the grants is well known. Finally, this is where remedial action is being taken. Youth work in the context of specific created organisations and institutions in both rural and urban areas is a valuable support for our society. Finally, I would like to stress once again that I see both laws, namely the Federal Youth Representatives Act and the Federal Youth Promotion Act, as a signal, as a sign for the youth who is committed to democracy, independence and fundamental rights and who assumes their responsibility within society, but also as a sign that politics and state recognize and take into account the importance of youth's concerns.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15020	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Weinmeier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15042	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There have so far been two areas in the social spectrum, for which there was no legal representation, namely for the elderly and for the young. A legal basis has already been established for the seniors in this year with the Federal Senior Advisory Council, and now, with the present Federal Youth Representatives Act, a legal basis for their representation of interests is created for young people, so that, like the other social groups, the employees, the economic operators, the farmers or even the elderly, they can exercise their interests on youth-related issues. I believe that this is very important for the intergenerational of generations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Especially gratifying is – and this has been said more often today – that it has also succeeded in obtaining the approval of the larger opposition party for this bill. This shows that it is possible to achieve a great deal when working together. I am particularly grateful in this respect to the two main actors who have made it possible for this bill to be in Parliament today, namely Mr Amon and Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But not only has there been broad parliamentary consensus, but it has also succeeded in giving all youth organisations their consent to this law. Youth can now take control of the enforcement of its own interests. This has also brought about a long-term demand for the liberals very quickly. However, I say very clearly that it will have to be the next step that we are trying to regain the interest of young people in politics, and I am also saying quite clearly that this is not a culprit of youth, but a blame for politics, as the Federal Minister has already said. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It will also not be possible to discuss the reduction of the electoral age at local level, at national level and also at federal level. The decision of these two laws, the Federal Youth Representatives Act and the Federal Youth Promotion Act makes today a positive day for youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15106	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15127	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have tabled a request for a separate vote, which is why, Minister of State, we are still faced with a problem in the Federal Youth Representatives Act. It concerns the Austrian high school. The Austrian high school is not only a youth representation – in fact, it is not a youth representation at all – but also the interest of the students, and that is not just a youth. Okay, it makes sense to take the ÖH into a Federal Youth Office. But, point two: The Austrian University School is, by itself, a legal representation of interests, which is now being sent to a further legal representation of interests. That doesn't necessarily make a slim foot. That would be about as if the Federal Council were to be sent to the National Council because both have the task of representing interests at a general parliamentary level. However, I would like to add a comment to Mr Graf's speech. Mr Graf, we have found no point at all in your speech where we should have disagreed with you. We already wanted to clap, but then there was a reminder that what you said was somehow incomplete. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] They have said quite correctly that youth organisations, but not just those, need excuses to deny young people the possibility of co-determination, the right to vote and so on. – Completely right! Mr Ellmauer also said that young people should not only be passive recipients. Now you think of those excuses that you rightly mentioned in relation to young people and women, in relation to the foreign people who live here in this country! Is there not also a need for excuses to prevent them from voting? – There would be the possibility of a consistent development not only of liberal positions, but also of those of the People’s Party, and I would like you to see these people not only as passive recipients, but also of giving them the same rights that all other affected groups have so far been denied with excuses.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15182	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15203	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that I am not too old for a word report on this Federal Youth Promotion Act, but I was a young Catholic youth leader about 30 years ago and therefore have at least access to this topic. [[A lively contradiction with the ÖVP]] I would like to say something at the beginning of my speech on Mr Riepl's speech: He meant that it was a good step towards the age limit. – We know that too. The Young ÖVP has always lived this, and the representatives of the Young ÖVP in the Bundesjugendring are younger than those of the Social Democratic Party. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Many important things have already been said about the Federal Youth Promotion Act and the Federal Youth Representatives Act. I would like to say a warm thank you to our young Members Amon and Saviour and also to the young colleagues from the Socialist Party and the Greens, but above all to colleagues Amon and Saviour for having prepared this legislative matter so excellently! [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I would like to point out briefly the main points of these two draft laws: First: The Federal Youth Promotion Act aims to put the promotion of non-school youth education and youth work on a legal basis. It will provide transparency, clarity and comprehensibleness of the grants granted. Secondly, The Federal Youth Representatives Act sets out an efficient, representative and manageable opportunity for participation. On the one hand, representation of young people's concerns can be ensured, and on the other hand, political decision-makers can be consulted in all youth-related areas. In this context, I would like to refer briefly to the youth report. This mentions that traditional youth work in the municipality often misses the needs of young people. I think that we should also work on these two laws in this area. Youth work in the municipalities is more united and moves on traditional tracks. I think the young people have the chance to move on with these two laws. I am thinking of youth representatives who could contribute a lot to this. In addition, I believe that we too must continue to work on it. Forums could also make an important contribution to this. To sum up, I would like to draw attention to some of the points that appear to me particularly important. First: Political youth participation should be supported by legal claims for co-determination. Secondly, As many forms of youth participation as possible should be promoted, for example, as I have already mentioned, youth forums, youth councils and project-oriented forms of participation; and also party-political independent youth representatives as mediators for the cross-generational dialogue between young people, older people, but also politicians. In future, the Federal Youth Promotion Act and the Federal Youth Representative Act will enable more efficient and effective youth work. The EIA is important for the opinion of children and young people, and their promotion is now put on a legal basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15282	The next speaker is Mrs Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15304	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today my colleague Nikolaus Prinz has said the very wise sentence: "Youth is our future." – I too believe: Youth is our capital for the future, and the youth is worth it, that we are fully committed to it and that we invest in it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At this point, it has already been said a lot about the history of the origin and the contents of these two laws, the Federal Youth Promotion Act and the Federal Youth Representative Act. I would just like to stress that these two laws represent a milestone in youth policy for me in the truest sense of the word. I should like to thank everyone, especially Werner Amon, for this. Thank you, Werner Amon, for accepting this subject with full elan and commitment! [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And the badger!]] However, the 1999 youth report has also given an important impetus to this legislative initiative. This report on youth has particularly highlighted the importance of youth organisations and youth associations. Allow me, on the basis of the importance of this, to take a short look at it. In this context, I may refer to a Lower Austrian statistics stating that 60 percent of the Lower Austrian youth are involved in associations, i.e. at least in one association. I think this is good and right, because many young people are finding a second home and because there is the opportunity for them to develop their creativity and to work meaningfully there. Ladies and gentlemen! You will give me the right if I represent the opinion that you can only support this trend towards associations. It's a hundred times better for young people to get involved in clubs than they're squatting around street corners somewhere and dedicating themselves to drug use. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Or do you want to find a "Karlsplatz" at every corner? - Not me! [[Bravorufe and congratulation with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Therefore, I am also very happy that we have these two requests today and that these two requests are also widely approved here in the National Council. I am also very happy that there has been a turning point in this regard, especially at SPÖ in 1999 in the truest sense of the word. [[Abg. You have a "deep walk" like an air-cushion boat!]] I would like to appeal to the SPÖ here in the National Council and to the entire SPÖ to make a turning point in the field of their pro-drug policy! In view of the up-to-date nature of this week's action by the Socialist Youth in Lower Austria, I should like to point out that a Member's promotion action has been launched, which has been accompanied by a concept of pro-drug policy. [[The speaker holds up a statement.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't seriously mean that! You can't really support that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can only ask you to go from your pro-drug policy to an anti-drug policy! Thank you. Perhaps we can also find consensus in this area!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15400	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? This is not the case. We shall proceed to the votes which will be carried out separately on each of the requests. First, we vote on the draft Federal Youth Promotion Act in 350 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Schender, Amon and Comrades submit an amendment which refers to §§ 3, 4, 7 and 8. In view of the fact that there is only one amendment, if no objection is raised, I shall leave the draft law with the title and receipt as amended by this amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Vulner, Amon and comrades vote. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The second reading is over. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign on this point. – The proposal was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled during the debate by Mr Schender, Mr Amon, Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mr Brosz and Mr Comrades on the promotion of youth organisations recognised under the People's Group Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this four-party resolution request for a sign. – That is unanimously decided. (E 46.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the next draft law, on the submission in 351 of the Supplements concerning the Federal Youth Representatives Act. There are two amendments tabled by Mr Amon, Mr Mag. Saviour and comrades and a amendment tabled by Mr Brosz and Mr Comrades. Mr Brosz has also asked for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. MEPs Brosz and Comrades have tabled an amendment to § 3 para. 1 refers. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Deputies Amon, Mag. Saviour and comrades have submitted an amendment, which is also based on § 3 para. 1 refers. In case of consent, I'm looking for an important sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on § 3 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, § 3 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report, agree to a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Deputies Amon, Mag. Saviour and comrades have submitted an amendment which refers to § 5. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment to give a sign. This amendment has been unanimously adopted by the House. Deputies Amon, Mag. Schender and comrades have also submitted an amendment which refers to §§6 and 10 as well as to the title to § 13. In the event of approval, I may also request a sign. – This amendment finds unanimous approval in the House. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of confirmation, I ask for a sign. – These remaining parts are unanimously adopted. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give an appropriate sign. The draft law was unanimously adopted at third reading. That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 307/A by Mr Mag. Herbert Haupt, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein, Annemarie Reitsamer, Karl Öllingerround Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Notary Insurance Act 1972 (9. Novelle on the Notary Insurance Act 1972) (344 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15556	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. Is there a wish for reporting? This is not the case. Mrs Reitsamer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15583	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to briefly describe the situation regarding the novel to the Notarial Insurance Act. This is a very small insurance. She's got 30. ==References====External links==* Official website The representatives of Notarial Insurance have approached all the parties represented here in the House because of a deterioration in their financial situation and have worked together with an insurance mathematical solution proposals. These proposals are based on the four-party proposal. The insurance also had to fight with the following: Notares are known to go only at the age of 70 or just below in retirement, and ten to twelve insured persons per year have taken up an early pension. This number has recently increased rapidly to 32 people. The notary insurance includes three pension parts: a basic amount, then a fixed amount per insurance month, and a variable supplementary pension, which reflects the average income of the notary. It was important to establish a proportionality in these three groups. The monthly increase is now increased from 29 S to 32 S. The income-oriented supplementary pension is reduced: firstly, by extending the calculation period from 18 years to 30 years, secondly by reducing the average income from 19 to 16 percent. All of this is done in three-year steps. The contribution rate has been retroactively 1st. January 2000 increased from 13 percent to 15 percent. Pension dynamics is to be suspended for three to five years, and there will also be a temporary solidarity contribution by pensioners. All these measures are based on unanimous decisions by the notaries' bodies. It is believed that the financing problems will be addressed within six years. We very much agree with this novel and we also welcome the consensusal approach in this matter. We would like this to be done in the ASVG, because, as one has heard the notaries here, one should perhaps hear the pensioners and senior pensioners in connection with pensions!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15630	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15651	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My predecessor pointed out that this is a consensus matter. This is a four-party proposal, and I am particularly grateful to our colleague Dr. Feurstein, who is always trying to involve as many parties as possible in social law. In this case, it has succeeded! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As has already been said, it may not be a very spectacular law, but precisely because it is a small group, I am allowed some interesting comments. This legal change is at the request of the insured, because they do not wish to interfere from outside, because the notaries and notary candidates are the only group in Austria who want to get out and get out without a federal contribution. I think this will and this will also encourage us to think. Mrs Reitsamer! If we consider how we have rode and fought for the pension reform just before the summer, how we have tried and how we have been bothering ourselves to achieve minor modifications in the structure of social security, then this present proposal should indeed encourage us to reflect. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] For you, ladies and gentlemen, who have not been so intensely concerned with this proposal, I should like to say the following: The normal age of entry of notaries is? – 70 years and on average the 69. Year of life. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: 69!]] The age of arrival is 70. Year of life. You really should think about it here. Notares come out without a federal contribution, and I am really glad that there is a profession that is proud and also able to interpret the problems of time properly. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: There are several!]] There is also an early retirement pension from 65 – you are right – but very few use it. Between 65 and 70 there are already discounts. Our mission, our contribution, is to ensure that the efforts of the insured, even in the future, to ensure a balanced conduct, support accordingly. In the negotiations, we were particularly concerned with ensuring the protection of the trust of older insured persons by means of appropriate transitional provisions. Overall, I think, this template is actually suitable for serving us as an example for others, first because it could be negotiated in consensus and, secondly, because it also contains very interesting points for other areas. In this sense, I may ask you and invite you to give your consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15717	As the next speaker, Mr Krüger is speaking. The clock is set to 2 minutes, as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15738	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka started a speech today by quoting, in his words, the latest APA message on the alleged censorship and tip cowardry. Mr Kostelka! I can also inform you of the latest APA notice on a censorship: "Martin is suing SP colleagues in the EU Parliament for "censorship." Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I thought immediately when I read this, from the point of view, it can only be a FPÖ member who criticizes the SPÖ delegates. [[Call the SPÖ:Notarial insurance!]] Then I thought: Which Martin could that be? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Free Party!]] We have a Peter, we have a Gerhard, we have a Wolfgang, but we have no Martin. And then I got on it, then the big one fell: It's your Hans-Peter Martin. Ladies and gentlemen! But what he really blames you is something very bad. He doesn't blame you anything but censorship. He wrote an article for your magazine "EuroPanorama", and this has simply been deleted. [[Call the SPÖ:Thema!]] His name as co-editor in the magazine's imprint has also been deleted. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll read you about that now. - Please, that has something to do with the subject. It's about censorship. Zensur has something to do with freedom of expression, and freedom of expression is because I am also talking about emergency insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This has nothing to do with it!]] Let me just quote this: "Martin calls this intolerable action by members of the delegation" of the SPÖ and says: "What a embarrassing political censorship by SPÖ-Mandatare in the EU Parliament. If not even the opportunity is given to explain the article of the delegation in person and (...) I should simply be declared an unperson." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: on the matter!]] Now on the subject in a narrow sense, ladies and gentlemen. I am of course also in favour of giving this novelle our approval. Mr Drinkl has already done this very well, and has done a lot of good. The average retirement age, as mentioned above, is 69. However, the conclusion of this should also be that one does not say that the "social cold" breaks through the Republic of Austria if one increases the early retirement age by one and a half years. That's what you can really say: A professional group, which has a retirement age of 69, is really exemplary for this, I believe, but it is not in the sense of social legislation to bring it into line with 69. That's not to say. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to join the wishes of my previous speaker and invite all the political groups to give the present novice the approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15825	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. For you are also set 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15846	Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We too agree with the amendment, but I say to you that there are already a number of points to be taken into account in the debate, particularly Mr Krüger, but also the ÖVP. [[Aha-Rufe at ÖVP]] Do not compare apples with pears! Of course, we are very happy about this – one should also pay attention to other social security schemes – that the community of notaries has regulated this in self-government. I would ask you, Minister, to take self-administration seriously in other social security schemes. But the point is as follows: Notares earn very late independent money – independently! – therefore also the late retirement age explains itself. That's the one point. The second point is: It is from your side that the demand for the merger of social security institutions always comes. Well, the notaries would be quite grateful if they were put together now. Nevertheless, I think that sometime we will have to go from the principle of permanent social security or pension insurance institutions, because it is no longer adequate. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, I don't think so! If they're successful?]] But this change should be carried out in accordance with the self-government bodies, as far as possible, and with the interests of the insured, again at point 1. If this were to be taken a little more seriously as a principle in politics, then we would probably be somewhere else in the political debate – a little somewhere else than we are today.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15890	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15911	Mr President. High house! I would like to add a few more points to Mr Oellinger's words. Mr Oellinger! You are sure that notarial insurance is currently in self-administration. I'm allowed However, they already point out that, in the framework of the legislative process, it was quite good that politics was also involved in this legislative matter. The following must also be said clearly – this is also apparent in the preface to the present legislative text from the parliamentary materials –: The original self-government plan has been such that for pensioners, a zero wage round would have been planned exclusively and alone as a contribution in the solidarity community, while the whole burden of this change would have been borne by those who will retire over the next five years. I therefore believe that we have been very well advised that, in this legislative process, politics as a whole and all four parliamentary parties have also forced self-government to present a model for decision-making, which will bring evenly the young notaries, the just before retirement and the already retired notaries into the self-government and also into the solidarity community. I should also like to point out that the introduction of a time-limited reference in the form of a solidarity levy from the pensioners is the performance of this legislative process. I believe that, including the long transitional periods that can be found, the present legislative work is now so mature that we can agree with it with peace and with pure conscience, because the burden within this small community of solidarity is also carried evenly. I would like to thank all the political groups for the fact that there has been a four-party consensus here, and I believe that we can learn from the fact that a good piece of work is being done where everyone in Parliament is involved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e15951	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish to speak? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 344 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading of this draft law, agree to a positive sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (300 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the German Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Seas 1990 (361 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16004	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak was Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16031	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! "There is no "red", "black", "blue" or "green" security policy, but there can only be a security policy, a security policy that can best protect and guarantee the security and independence of our country and its population. For this reason, as Minister of Defense, I will be particularly concerned to have an open dialogue with you here in Parliament, to inform you in good time about measures – and I will say so in your direction, Mr Gaál – which my department is planning so that we can shape the future of our security policy together." – Federal Minister Scheibner on 9. February of this year here in the house. Federal Minister! What's left of this announcement? – We could not recognize these intentions by the Military Power Act. We can also see in the Wehrgesetz no approaches to find this consensus that you once promised. In my opinion, the Wehrgesetz is already an essential part of the security policy and should therefore be consistent. This government template deals with serious matters. One of these is the rewording of § 2, the central area, the core of the Wehrgesetz, the tasks of the Federal Army. And that at a time when a committee of experts is known to meet. This committee of experts will report at the end of this year, according to your own statements, Mr Minister. Interim reports have not yet been known to us. And it is at this time that § 2 is redefined. I claim that it will soon be necessary to talk about § 2 again. But one thing in all clarity to the ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties: This government template already has a huge advantage. You only need to look at this Section 2 on page 21 in particular: Here the history of this law is clearly explained. There are the highlights, the milestones inside, for example the constitutional basis from 1975, the defense doctrine from the same year, then the national defense plan – all of this from a time when there was a social-democratic absolute majority with a social-democratic German Chancellor. I believe that the government's proposal does not give rise to the question of whether social democracy is committed to the federal army. That is thus proved to be complete, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, in this government template, we also see the new way of "new governance". I address the Council of State Defense. This Council of State Defense has actually been in consensus for decades, now it is being redesigned in the sense of "new governance": What can be done to weaken the strongest party here in this house? During the review, the number twelve was still mentioned. With regard to the Government's proposal, the following considerations were considered: What can be done to change this number? - A system has been found: You take the d’hondsche system. Each one of us knows its justices, injustices and also its possibilities. This d’hondtsch system selects the number best suited to the coalition parties. That's the number six, because the number six gives rise to the only possibility that social democracy loses a member of the National Defence Council. And this number will raise you to the law. What also bothers us about this template is that there has been no shattering with it. Old provisions, which used to make sense, have also been incorporated into the new law, for example in the duties of the conscriptors, see § 17. There would have been a need for action. An example: Upon payment of the present service, the person in charge of the present service shall not travel abroad for six months for more than three days. This provision makes no sense today. The Minister in the Committee has tried to explain this with good words. It's not a good thing for him. [[Abg. Boy: Didn't you look after me?- Oh, my God!]] The European Union has been forgotten here: With an extended weekend in Berchtesgaden or in Passau you will be fined. Now I come to the final point of my statement, namely to the penalties. Can you explain to me, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, why do you have to triple the fines, why can a military officer who, after his military service, travels abroad for four days and does not report it, be punished with a penalty of 19,264 S? [[Abg. Young: I'll explain that to you!]] Where's the sense? Why did you triple that? For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, and for a number of reasons that my group's colleagues are going to present, we believe that this government template is a cutting-off of the diversity of opinions in the Council of State Defense, that youth can easily get into high penalties in the event of violations of law – it has not been corrected – and that this extreme intensification of the penalties is a whip that our youth does not need. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank our youth, who, despite the beatings she is being thrown out of the coalition, for taking off the military service for our Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16091	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16112	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my view, the present government template, with which we are innovating and amending the Wehrgesetz, is a good example of the willingness of the Ministry of Defence to adapt to the new circumstances, to change legal papers and to submit and decide slimmer provisions. It is about reducing the legislative texts, simplifying and clarifying them, and avoiding branches if there is already a law that does not have to be dealt with again in a special legislation. There is a fundamental effort to make more slimming provisions accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues Edler has drawn attention – like other leading members of the Social Democrats – to the fact that the military budget is too high that billions – the ex-finance minister said – can be saved. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Edler from the railway?]] Mr Edlinger said that we could still save at the Wehrbudget. However, the people concerned no longer know how to do so. Then also the Bundesobmann of the Young Socialists, who is of course for the abolition of the Federal Army, did not surprise me, that is an old demand of the Young Socialists and the whole left! But that you too, Mr Edler, say that the money for the budget of national defence is taken away from the little ones, then that is, I don't want to say, the last class, but the very high class is not either. [[Abg. Edler: Sure!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Edler: Go, stop!]] I think we could agree on that, otherwise we could say: Why do the early pensioners of the Austrian Federal Railways deserve so much and the minimum pensioners so little? [[Abg. Edler: That's poor! Painful!]] That's not how it is! I don't think we should do this with the defense budget either. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] On the other hand, colleagues Gaál and Leikam come up with a demand catalogue that can be seen: what else would be necessary for the German army – but with even less money! So that's the square of the circle that keeps in this house then and when quite moving in. And if thanks are given to our soldiers, once again to those present, one must also remember that they are there for us in the assistance of disaster and we must provide them with safe and competent equipment accordingly. And this, Mr. Edler, does not go with less money either. [[Abg. Edler: Don't take it away from the little people!]] So we have to be a little more careful with our statements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, this law novel is based on the description of the tasks of the federal army. I am glad, unlike Mr Kummerer, that the military state defense, the protection of constitutional institutions have been specified, that the German army is also available for domestic elemental events or for assistance in the event of disasters abroad and has always proved its worth! Thank you, of course, thank you, thank you, the government parties, for this House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to some important positions in this new law. Mr Prammer, when she was still a minister, has always pointed out that equality between women is a very important thing. When it came to the equal rights of women in the Federal Army, it was not that way anymore. We are now making an amendment which is very important, because we are ending with discrimination against women: Of course, the military career is open to them, there are no more men's preferences, and they can always reject arms exercises. Voluntaryness has been taken into account until the last result. The career as a soldier can, if she is aborted, be continued, for example, in the private sector, afterwards, the training as a sub-official or as an officer. The further use of foreign assistance operations in leading positions is also possible. Women can also extend the training service from 12 months to 18 months in order to receive a corresponding planning site. In the short term, ladies and gentlemen, a particularly well-informed women's package in the Wehrgesetznovelle! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One important point for me is that the UN Convention is being agreed against child soldiers and we are in line with the Convention on the Rights of Children. No youth under the age of 18 is said to be called into military combat operations. This is therefore – we have already discussed the youth chapter today – a consequence within the framework of the UN Convention. And with the change that pilots of over 50 years of age can still be employed, professional practice is taken into account. Pilots over 50 years will be able to continue their career if their flightability has been checked. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the main points of this new German law. In conclusion, I should like to sum up in one sentence: a legislative amendment to simplifications, clarifications, a specific component of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16245	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16280	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The UN Convention is okay, not everything else! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16307	The next speaker was Mr Jung. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16328	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague Pilz seems to be k. o. because he has no further thought of this matter today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The poison syringe is empty!]] Since there is only a little time available to me, I submit the following request at the time of departure: [[Quoted print version removed]] This correction was made according to a request from the Board of Appeal, is in itself unproblematic and, as we have heard, undisputed. As I have been informed, the Social Democratic Party intends to make a proposal for an amendment, but unfortunately we did not receive it until 4 p.m. Since it is relatively extensive – it is over five pages – and refers to the 20 different legal papers, it is unfortunately impossible to work through this request in the time available, although at one point or another we are quite ready to talk, especially as far as you, I think, are concerned, namely the question of parliamentary assignment of the Appeal Commission. This is a point we need to talk about. It was not even possible for me in the short time to reach the negotiator of our party in this matter, namely Mr Ofner, who is on curfew because of his leg. We are open to negotiations, but we will have to solve this in principle, because if you want to create an institution similar to the public prosecutor's office in this respect – which can be discussed – you will also have to provide a budget and various other things for this, and we really can't break that over the knee. You'll have to talk about it. Mr Kummerer said earlier in the other amendments to the Wehrgesetz, which I would like to speak briefly, that the various corrections are being made because they are trying to disarm the SPÖ. Mr Commissioner, if you look at the previous composition of the Council of State Defense, namely 4 : 3 : 1 : 1, with which we have been pushed down to the level of the Greens, then you can only say that this is perhaps the creation of a somewhat fairer state than the previous one. As long as you have had absolute power, Mr President, as long as this state of affairs has been, this injustice has not been a problem. At that moment when your power will cut a little bit, yell "Au!" And are wretched. I believe that this cannot fail, especially because it is a Council which has a consultative role and not a decisive task, and therefore the importance of the voting relationship is not necessarily the central moment of this Commission. Soon, because there is little time to change the law of military law, which is by no means as serious as you have described it. It is just a new summary which has been discussed in the most important points already by Mr Murauer. Mr Kummerer, you have criticized the scale of punishment. – But you know quite well that a significant part of these penalties since 1962 – in words: sixty-two! – that is, for 38 years, no longer adapted, has not been adapted. It is not surprising, therefore, if at last a corresponding increase is made. It is insidious to argue that this is so terrible and so cruel. I have already mentioned the question of the Council of State Defense, but also the question of Wehrgesetzung... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: Do you think this...formulation is justified?]] – Unfortunately, I don't have so much time. § 2 of the Wehrgesetz will hardly change. § 2 of the Wehrgesetz regulates the fundamental tasks of the Federal Army and not the concrete tasks of the operation, as they may as a result of a threat analysis enter into a national defence plan. They deliberately mix two very different areas. This is not quite serious in this situation, Mr Kummerer. In principle – we have already said it – the amendment actually follows only one request from the Board of Appeal, the Wehrgesetz is actually only a correction and a new summary of the old provisions, except for the one point, namely the composition of the Council of State Defense. Actually, you could agree with this without problems. There would be no change in the previous state to the negative. Of course, in practice you have problems with doing so. That's what I understand. But finally, again: Our willingness to negotiate the question of the allocation of the Commission is there. However, we will do this in peace and not under time pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16418	The amendment tabled by Mr Jung is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Leikam. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16463	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have experienced the premiere of the new interlocutor of the Austrian People's Party. [[Call the ÖVP: Good premiere! Very good premiere!]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] I meant a few days ago in the Committee on Budgets, well, that was perhaps not quite what we were expecting from the Austrian People's Party's representative – his predecessor, Mr Platter, has proved a certain quality in this function! Today, I have to say, I am disappointed again, Mr Murauer, but above all I am somewhat irritated. You have presented the novelle to the Wehrgesetz as if it was really the invention now, everything would be fine and wonderful and clear. Mr Jung, the spokesperson of the Freedom Party, said: Well, actually, nothing has been changed in this law at all, it has almost nothing happened, since anyone could actually go along anyway, there is virtually nothing inside! [[Call the liberals: He didn't say that!]] There are headlines, but there's nothing in there. For example, you have literally said this about the § 2, task area of the Federal Army. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have also been confronted by the new spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party with a few terms I would ask him to perhaps explain. Or perhaps the Federal Minister can also tell us what he meant. What, Mr Murauer, is a "competent device"? Mr Murauer said that a "competent device" had to be made available to the German army. That's what this law makes possible. I read everything, I really broke my head over it. A "competent device" – I'm a bit overwhelmed, because I don't understand what you could understand about it. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's not our problem!]] Or, "slender provisions". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Perhaps the Minister will tell me: What is a "competent device" in the Austrian federal army? I've got a little bit of my problems there. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: A sting watch is a "competent device"!]] – You're right about that! Only you don't know the connection here either. Unfortunately, that's God's problem. You can only read the headlines. But that's your problem. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Mrs. Mertel can... very well!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jung also meant – or I think it was Mr Murauer – that Members Gaál and Leikam had set up a list of requests in committee. I'll bet I'm on it, too. And I have already said in the Committee that the problem of this Minister of Defence is that he had to take on a preliminary burden from his predecessor in the amount of an annual defence budget – an entire annual budget on pre-taxes! This is the problem that Mr Scheibner has. Fassleven had no overview at all at all in his department and was in the procurement sector – and this has just moved through the era of Fassleven like a red thread. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Murauer: The Edellinger has said that this is still too much!]] And Fassleven has given this minister an exaggeration in the amount of an entire annual budget. Now, of course, we have problems in procurement and in the most necessary equipment of the Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: The nobler said a billion too much!]] [[Abg. Edler: Investigation Committee!]] But to talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, we will still have plenty of opportunity in the budget debate on the national defence chapter. Wehrgesetznovelle, Federal Minister. Yesterday, there was a question hour in this House, and I also asked you what the whole thing really looks like. You have set up an expert commission in your department working on a new defense doctor. My colleague, Mr Kummerer, has already pointed this out. You answered me yesterday that the Commission has been set up, it is working, but there are no results yet. I accept that, of course! You have said that this Commission should now be put to rest, and if there is a result, then of course Parliament, the Council of State Defense and all those involved will also be given these results, and we will have sufficient opportunity to discuss them. - Okay, okay. But then I ask you, Minister of State and honourable ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties: Why do we have a novel to the Weir Law now? The time is simple and simply the wrong one! Why are we trying to talk now, write about a new task of the Austrian federal army, when the really new areas that will undoubtedly be addressed in such a defense doctrine, such as: What does it look like to join NATO? What is the situation... – But that was always a topic! [[Abg. Young: That is not part of the law, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Federal Minister Scheibner: But not in the Wehrgesetz!]] Not in the Wehrgesetz, but in connection with the Defense Doctrine, one will have to talk about all of these things, and, of course, in any other way, this will also flow in. What about the professional army? Questions about questions that have now disappeared from the image area. You can stand to do what you want, but they will take a wide space in the discussion. So I note that at the moment we would not have needed these novels – not least because, in fact, Mr Jung is also of the opinion that this new legislation does not change much anyway. I think it was the wrong time. [[Abg. Young: Some important corrections!]] I also cannot see this modernisation in this novel, which has been spoken of here, and not at all these "slender provisions" which Mr Murauer spoke about. [[Abg. Murauer: Then you didn't look at it...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! All of this is not recognizable in this novel, on the contrary, Mr Kummerer has pointed out some areas in this regard. In total, without going even closer to it in detail, as it no longer allows time, I note: We would have liked to have had a little more time to wait for important points that are being worked on. Then we could have sat down and maybe discussed the whole thing on a wider basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16665	The next speaker was Mr Loos. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16686	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor, I have to say it's all right: The one who says that the law has become slimmer – it has really become much clearer, I have to say – and there are also those who say that there have been important changes, especially positive changes as regards women in the federal army. I don't think there's anything negative about that. Only positive things have been made here. Even Member of the Pilz has discovered something positive, although yesterday he only "Wuff, wuff!" That's what I said. Today he said at least one sentence: That this with the under 18 years is a good thing in this law. So everyone found something good, and that's not bad for themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the National Defence Council. It has already been very detailed: It was carried out in accordance with the d’hondtsch procedure, so that it stands in the Council of State Defense 3 : 3 : 3 : 1. This is democratically in order, and in my opinion, those who find it unfair do not understand democracy quite properly. I would like to point out two things, because the tasks of the Federal Army are also contained in this Section 2 of the Law on Weirs. And since some APA reports have already been mentioned today – mostly in the negative sense – I now want to give you a particularly positive APA message, one by Mr Strasser. I quote: "Eisenstadt (APA) – Today, Friday, Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser spoke for a further year on the occasion of a visit to Burgenland for an extension of the German army's assistance mission at the eastern border of Austria. He will make an appropriate request to the Council of Ministers on Tuesday, said Strasser at a press conference in Eisenstadt." And on top of that: "He is currently in intensive negotiations with the Minister of Defence". The use of soldiers for the security of the population was 'important and necessary', said Strasser, who also thanked the federal army: ‘I believe that this system has proved to be very successful.’ The citizens of Burgenland welcome the soldiers for their excellent cooperation with the executive." - Quote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am very grateful that this was sent out today. I would also like to thank our Minister of Defence, whom I know he is very committed to this matter, that he is also very concerned that the corresponding assistance can be carried out in the Burgenland. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, I have the request – and I would like to expressly support our Minister for Defence – that such special operations should be taken very slowly in the budget according to precautions. We don't want this from the Ministry of the Interior. According to § 2 Wehrgesetz, tasks of the Federal Army, this is a task of the Federal Army. But such special efforts should also be taken care of in order not to harm the army elsewhere. A second thing – and I am very grateful to the Minister for Defence: He has now reported the crisis response force to Brussels. 3 500 soldiers will be trained to do so, 2,000 will be constantly ready. I believe that this is an important and right task that our State has to do to foreign countries. By the way, this is also included in § 2 Wehrgesetz. I would also like to ask that this matter be taken care of. I believe that we agree, for example, with the SPÖ and the Greens. This commitment is important for peace in Europe, and we should do everything we can to take care of it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as our spokesperson is concerned: I myself, as you know, have been a long soldier, and I have to say, I am really pleasantly surprised how he has read himself into the matter, how he deals with the matter. I am very pleased that we have received it as a speaker on the part of the ÖVP. I congratulate you on this and wish you all the best for your important task in the sense of the Federal Army!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16770	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. Voluntary time limit: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e16791	Mr President! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Jung! You have said that the amendment tabled by the government parties follows the request of the Board of Appeal. [[Abg. Kiss: Mrs. Hagenhofer, where have you served?]] You only said half the truth. The whole truth would be that you have failed to comply with the wishes of the Federal Parliamentary Committee on Complaints, namely, the word "parliamentary" in this change in the law of the Wehr. [[Abg. Young: Mrs. Colleague, you didn't listen!]] Why commit? – Because there are problems constantly – and I am still going to address it – with this undescribed word "parliamentary". You have also said that you cannot go further than the SPÖ Group's request because you have received it in the short term. [[Abg. Young: 4:00!]] You have also discussed this amendment that you have tabled. [[Abg. Young: handed over yesterday!]] But then you could have been able to make calls with your colleague, Mr Ofner, or you could have tried yesterday, when you made the request, to determine whether this is the Commission's wish, Mr Jung. [[Abg. Young: Yesterday I didn't know what you wanted!]] The request of the Board of Appeal was made on 30 July. Opinion on the review procedure in August. [[Abg. Young: Who?]] – The Federal Minister for the Defence of the State Herbert Scheibnerist did so. So don't ask me who did this to. If you don't know, I'm sorry. You're playing as an expert, and then you ask who's going to have a review! [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't you know the separation of violence?]] What you are saying here are two small wishes, at best a fixed rule of procedure. You do not follow the most important wish to finally include the "Parliamentary Federal Heir Complaint Commission" in the Wehrgesetz. [[Abg. Young: A little bit you should know!]] And if you say, budgetaryly, you have to think about that too, then I'll tell you: [[Abg. Young: Right!]] The law in force is now: The Federal Ministry of Defence must provide the necessary staff to the Board of Appeal and pay the necessary expenses. - Please, stop me with the budget! They don't want to! [[Abg. Young: Yes, that you can't handle the money, we know!]] I guessed you differently. I thought you were one who really encouraged the military in all directions. [[Abg. Young: Who? Me?]] Yes. Just in this area, where the army could benefit from the Complaints Commission to date, I think, because the Federal Army Complaints Commission has worked very hard in silence and very objectively – I think we are all of one opinion – but this does not seem to be the case. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] Of course, Mr Commissioner, she was there for that, and she does. It is precisely this work, this further development – so you can see the results of the Complaints Commission: as a further development for the state defense – brings problems, brings frustrations, brings tensions between the Federal Army Complaint Commission and the Ministry, because it is obviously in a report under Minister Fassleven that he meant that the Federal Parliamentary Force Complaints Commission was an auxiliary body of the Ministry. [[Abg. Young: Then you have to release them!]] I guess it can't be. Why are the chairmen appointed by Parliament when, on the other hand, it is supposed to be an aid device for the Ministry of Defence? It's not like that, and it was never meant to be that way. For this reason, the Federal Heir Complaint Commission wanted to bear the name "Parliamentary Complaints Commission". [[Abg. Young: Then she should have turned to Parliament too!]] That was a mistake at the time, you're right. But you have believed – as it is always wrong, if you only believe and don't commit – that you get to the brink with this Federal Force Complaint Commission. One does not get to the brink, because the desires or feelings of course change again and again. For those who work in the area of the Federal Army Complaint Commission, it is imaginable, but also for the staff of the Ministry of Defence it is not good if the clear term "Parliamentary Complaints Commission" is not involved here. That was the wish. There was a debate with the Minister, and your colleague knows that it was your colleague's concern. And today we are facing a request which at best sets out a Rules of Procedure, but not that which was the request of the Board of Appeal. I am therefore tabling an amendment which is now available in writing. The purpose of this legislative amendment is to implement the proposal prepared by the Federal Heaviour Complaints Commission. I really ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to this request, and on the one hand to facilitate the Federal Army Complaints Commission and on the other hand to the officials of the Ministry – I am not a defender of duty – their work within the meaning of a functioning army, in the sense of a army that can enjoy a good reputation in the public! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17025	I announce that Mr Dipl.-Ing's request, which has just been presented in his key points, has just been presented. Kummerer and comrades have been presented in writing and are sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17167	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17186	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1990 Wehrgesetz must be modernised on the basis of a variety of needs. We note that the SPÖ is not only against a reform of the Council of State Defense, but also against a clarification of the tasks of military national defence, that it is against a simplification and re-designation of degrees of service, that it is against the modification of the reporting and position in the context of the military obligation that it opposes the opening of the military career for women, that it is against the exclusion of young people from military combat operations, that it is against the re-regulation of the military representation of time soldiers and that it opposes the linguistic, systematic and legal improvements of this new law. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The fact that the d’hondtsche system is a recognized system for the division of seats in councils according to election results is, I believe, no longer to argue from our side. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Grief: You can judge how you need it!]] I do not need to mention that the obligation to report, Mr Kummerer, is necessary in order to ensure close planning. And that we are ready to debate with you about the Federal Committee on Complaints, Mr Jung has already said clearly in his contribution to the debate. We couldn't do this because we got your request at 4:00 p.m. and if we want to check it out, you have to give us more time here. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, it can be found that in many areas this innovation leads to procedural simplification and, at the same time, to a significant gain in clarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17220	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17242	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Mr Kummerer referred in his statement to the broadest possible consensus on security and defence policy. He then raised the allegation that this presentation of this broad consensus will be abandoned by the Ministry of Defence or by the side of the government parties, because this Wehrgesetz makes extensive changes, and one should actually wait for the results of the Security and Defence Doctrine discussions - including Members Leikam - and then amend the Wehrgesetz. Ladies and gentlemen! If that were the case, one could only change the Wehrgesetz if § 2, namely the tasks assigned to the German army, then one would not have made many changes to the Wehrgesetz – and ultimately also the decision of the Wehrgesetz – because this is the case in this form of 1990; 1998 also made changes. I think ladies and gentlemen, that one has nothing to do with the other. § 2 Wehrgesetz has remained the same in its salary. It has only been made clearer, as have other provisions, and improvements have also been introduced by the language. There have been adaptations, but fundamental changes have been made in a few, but, as I believe, very important areas have not been addressed by you at all. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. Even MP Pilz has pointed out one of these points, namely that we are finally including a very important convention in the Wehrgesetz, that the ban on involving child soldiers, i.e. young people under 18 years of age, in military operations, is now being implemented for Austria. I do not understand that this is not worth your approval, that we are now expressing clearly – and you know it: On a voluntary basis, young Austrians can already use the 17th century. We also want to maintain their military service in such a way that under 18-year-olds are not sent into military service. This is a very important signal also in the sense of international regulations. The second point is – and I have not heard a single word from you, ladies and gentlemen – that we open the access of women within the framework of the military service, within the framework of a voluntary military service also for military functions, that this opens up an important development to clear and clear free and equal access to important tasks in the Federal Army for women, that one must not now decide to spend the entire working life as a soldier, and only then opens up the possibility of a voluntary military service, but that, in addition to a normal professional activity in the form of voluntary arms exercises, one can also find access and thus also have the opportunity to go abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! The latter can also be interesting and important for many women from the income situation, but also in the sense of professional experience. It has therefore not been worth a comment to you on this very important measure for women, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. If the members of the National Defence Council have been addressed here: In the case of a distribution key established by the d’hondt system, it is of course unsatisfying that there is no differentiation between the strongest and the second strongest groups in relatively equal strength conditions. I admit that. But it was a compromise, on the one hand – and I have never heard of you that this is unfair – to change the current division, where the third strongest party – whoever is – can change very quickly, as we have seen in the past – has only one representative in the Council of State Defense, regardless of its strength, and, on the other hand, of course, to ensure that this body is operational and not too large from its scale. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They have addressed the national consensus in defence policy. I recognise this, and you know that I will do everything I can to achieve a broad consensus on fundamental security and defence issues here. But this also includes the political will – I say again: the political will – of all representatives, of all political groups. At least I would have imagined that if one is opposed in individual positions, at least in a separate vote on different positions of principle, which are included here, one signals approval. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The last one is to the Federal Hero of Complaints Commission, because this has also been referred to by Mrs Hagenhofer. They know – and we have recently had a conversation with the entire Board of Appeal – that I have signed up to the Federal Army Complaints Commission and its tasks and that I also support them in the best possible way. There, corresponding wishes have been deposited, and I have also made it clear that, as far as possible, I will support them in implementing their wishes. You have asked Members of Mr Ofner to vote with me the details. In some areas I have already complied with the wishes, and it has also been agreed that these two points, which the Commission still wanted to include in the Wehrgesetz, should also be included in an amendment. The third point, the term "Parliamentary Federal Heir Complaint Commission", was still an open question. As far as I know, an opinion should be drawn up. In my view, there is currently agreement on these two points, and they are also included in this amendment tabled by Mr Jung. As far as the amendment you have tabled here is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I have only been told by telephone that such an amendment is planned. I don't know the contents until now. I believe that we should come to discuss these things, Mr Kummerer. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Because you don't read your own letters!]] I tell you once again, I cannot do more than really do anything to ensure that we have a good relationship, that the work between the Federal Army Complaint Commission and the representatives of the Federal Ministry of Defence is also a successful one. However, both sides must do their utmost to ensure that good cooperation, a good opportunity, is available. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out once again that this is not an overall reform of the Wehrgesetz. That is why there is no reason here to wait for anything. We will have a comprehensive and fundamental discussion on the tasks of the military state defense in Austria and the Austrian Federal Army. In addition to adaptations that make sense to create rules for important areas, such as the prohibition of military use of young people and voluntary access for women in a military use. I believe that this did not require a delay, and I would be pleased if the opposition would still reconsider its negative attitude to this reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17314	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Kaipel to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17336	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundesminister, the Freedom Party has received the amendment, and the opinion of the Board of Appeal is to you on 30 June. August went on. We Socialists do not in principle reject this amendment to the 1990 Wehrgesetz. We welcome the further improvement of career opportunities for women in the German army, we welcome the re-regulation of the representation of time soldiers with at least one year of commitment, and we welcome the increased protection of children and young people in wars as well as the slimming of administrative procedures. We reject the rest for several reasons. Let me point to one point, namely the issue of child soldiers. We do not already have the child soldiers within the meaning of the United Nations Convention. The legislation in force provides for compulsory military service at 18 years of age. However, so far the voluntaryity under 18 was possible, with all rights and obligations being created as a result of the start-up, and with the full use of the fight possible. The new scheme provides that under 18 full training is possible, but not combat intervention. Since this regulation goes far beyond the Convention, we will also call for a separate vote to be taken. We will be § 47 para. 2 and reject the rest. Finally, I should like to point out once again that the rewording of the Wehrgesetz without the concept of military service is a far-reaching opportunity for our army. Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17376	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 361 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment or amendment to the proposal by Members of Parliament, Mr Jung, Mr Murauer and Mr Comrades. MEPs also have Dipl.-Ing. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on European Union. In addition, Mr Dipl.-Ing. It is a pity that we have a desire for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill, which have been voted on by the supplementary or amending amendments and by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Jung, Mr Murauer and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new Z6a. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Sombers and comrades have tabled an amendment which has the content of the deletion of the Z 7. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Sombers and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Z 7. Since this amendment contains constitutional provisions, I first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now turn to the amendment tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Vote by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Z7 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Cumbersomes and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new Z 20a. I would ask those Members of the House who speak for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We now proceed to a separate vote on Z 48 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Cumbersomes and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new Z 59a. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Jung, Mr Murauer and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Z 61. I ask those members of the House who are here for a sign of confirmation. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this law at third reading. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 12. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (196 of the Supplements): Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and Declaration of the Republic of Austria (384 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (295 of the Supplements): Acceptance of the extension of the European Government Declaration on the ARIANE Carriers' Production Phase (385 of Supplements) 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Karin Hakl, Ing. Gerhard Fallentund comrades concerning the promotion of fair trade (386 of supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17535	We come to points 12 to 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Posch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17563	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Government's document 196 of the Supplements represents an important step in the fight against international crimes, namely the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which was set up to supplement national jurisdiction and exercises jurisdiction over persons for serious crimes, namely genocide, crime against humanity and war crimes. It has a certain weakness in that it is possible for States to rule out the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice for seven years if the suspicion falls on their own nationals or the crime has been committed on their own territory. Nevertheless, this International Criminal Court is a major step forward: It shall determine when the Court of Justice may exercise its jurisdiction: namely, if a Contracting State is submitted to the prosecutor or if the UN Security Council is acting or if the prosecutor himself initiates investigations on his own initiative. This is the crucial point: The Appellate Authority is an independent body of the Court of Justice, it is completely free of discretion. This Statute shall also apply in full to persons in public offices. That is to say, the activity as head of state or government, as a member of a government or a parliament, is no longer a reason for the prosecution by the Court of Justice. This statute has so far been signed by 115 States. So far, 23 States have ratified the Statute, 6 of which are EU countries. For 60 ratifications, this rule will enter into force. This International Criminal Court was founded in Rome in 1998. There have been 162 states participating, with 120 states voting against, and only 7 against, including the USA, China and Israel. 21 states abstained. It is positive that this statute has been adopted by more than two thirds of the votes, with the EU states being uniform in its favour. This Court of Justice certainly has a new quality of authority. So far, only two ad hoc courts have been set up by the UN Security Council in 1993. These bodies work only on a case-by-case basis, and therefore there is certainly a certain danger of politicization. It is therefore also positive that the United States could not enforce itself with its main requirement, namely an prosecutor on the UN Security Council's leash, so that its members could have allowed charges or prevented them by veto, depending on political opportunities. With the creation of the International Court of Justice, the Security Council is losing its monopoly in the determination of aggression. This is therefore an extremely important measure: In the future, desk perpetrators cannot be safe from international law enforcement. The US, although not party to the ICC, has participated in the negotiations and continues to be involved in the negotiations. This is an important point because this criminal court could not be an effective legal body without the USA in the longer term. Where the criminal court will be responsible in the future, the protection of human rights, i.e. the persecution of human rights violations, will be outside the international interest policy of the States. This is a very important point. Therefore, "amnesty international" is also grateful for the great commitment to the creation of the ICC. I should like to mention one point which is not on the agenda, but which should actually be on the agenda. Mr Schieder will still comment on the fact that the EU Observatory could not be adopted against racism or the implementation of the Headquarters Convention. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] Unfortunately, this has not yet been negotiated. I hope that this year we will ratify the Constitutional Convention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17600	Mr Spindelegger is speaking as the next speaker. Text time limit at your own request: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17622	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to focus very briefly on this question of the Rome Statute. I think that this is a truly fundamental basis for the international persecution of capital crimes against humanity and against people who are often persecuted in conflicts in a way that we simply cannot accept. I also believe that it is a real progress in terms of content that one must not ad hocly form a tribunal, but that it will automatically provide an authority that will ensure an independent persecution – no matter who has committed crimes here – that will indifferently pursue this persecution, whether someone enjoys immunity in national law, and which, I believe, will represent a certain prevention, saying, a deterrence for all those who may wish to give such orders. It is actually a breakthrough for the first time that such a possibility is created at international level. We're full of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Because of the advanced time, I get short. Let me just make one comment on Mr Posch. We have really debated the issue of the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we have also taken steps. Today, in the run-up to the Presidents, we have sent the proposal that this item on the agenda by 1. In December, the Committee on Foreign Policy discussed the matter. We also agree that we will have an open discussion with the head of this office in Vienna. Some things have to be clarified, and we are still standing on that. However, we do not let anyone put pressure on us as parliamentarians to simply vote on the call. The right to discuss such international agreements here in Parliament and then to decide when we want to do so will remain unblemished, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this sense, I think we can put an end to this matter very quickly for all those involved. I do not wish to comment further on what I have been discussing with Mr Schieder.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17676	The next speaker was Mr Kurzmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17697	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to make a few comments on the government template concerning the production phase of the ARIANE missiles. This is the commercial marketing of the carrier rockets designed under the European Space Agency (ESA) by the Arianespace company. The explanations of the European governments on the production phase are only valid by the end of this year. This will now be extended by one year so that a ten-year contract can be negotiated thereafter. The impact on Austria's economic location and employment in our country is quite positive. Acceptance of the government template allows Arianespace to be commissioned to several Austrian companies and thus corresponds to the previous successful focus of our country and our economy on space engineering projects. The second important issue is the establishment of an International Criminal Court, which my previous speakers have already referred to. This Court of Justice is to speak right in the face of most serious international crimes, namely genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Although it is again the issue of national sovereignty rights, we, of course, contribute to this proposal because this Court of Justice could lead to more peace and greater enforcement of human rights worldwide. – I have deliberately chosen the conjunctiv, because today it is not entirely foreseeable whether this Court of Justice will play the role that the signatory states expect from it in the future. An old proverb says: Power is going to be right. – It is known that power policy follows its own rules, as we must always see when voting in the UN. As long as States such as the USA, China, India or France do not want to comply entirely with the rules of such a Court of Justice and do not submit to these rules, the enforceability of this institution must be questioned. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this should not be an excuse for not supporting the fundamental efforts towards uniform international legal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17744	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Still speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17765	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased today that I am able to represent Mrs Lunacek here – she is at an important meeting abroad – on a request she made a year ago and today, in a slightly modified form here, thank God, will be decided in a four-party template. It is about fair trade, about the North-South trade and about new prospects for solidarity in the international context. Ladies and gentlemen! Fair Trade is not something that has just been reinvented, but is a movement that has been trying to implement the efforts to achieve solidarity through practical action in the world and across Europe for 25 years. This movement now includes 3,000 stores and the 50,000 employees who are committed to ensuring that trade in goods of the best quality – in the meantime premium quality – is the result of this fair trade relationship – is simultaneously linked to social and environmental criteria. Ladies and gentlemen! TransFair trading criteria include minimum prices for the maintenance of small-scale structures in these countries. This also means the enforcement of fair wages and fair working conditions, and especially for farmers, for women in the Third World a chance to reach income and social recognition as well as, of course, organic production, as far as possible, to organic farming methods. They certainly all know now also TransFair coffee and TransFair tea from organic production. The success of this policy, this practical policy of so many people, is understandable. This is practical action to enable consumers to significantly improve living conditions in these countries. The worldwide targeted promotion of organic farming through price increases also leads to the protection of the rainforest. That must be our concern, right now, this week of climate protection. TransFair is a contribution to climate protection: worldwide, in Europe, in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us not forget that, at political level in particular, the Greens have been actively working for decades to actively support this movement and also to try to improve the political framework conditions! I recall the Green amendment, which was decided in the European Parliament in January 1994, to strengthen and further support the request to improve fairness and solidarity in the North-South trade. Ladies and gentlemen! This practical solidarity is also a challenge in the public sector. With this motion for a resolution, we are moving forward one step further, I think, to the extent that this motion for a resolution also includes drawing up a report by 2001, a report which aims to draw up a report on the areas of budgetary policy, legislation and, above all, the public procurement sector, in which there are opportunities to establish TransFair relations and to conduct the North-South dialogue through practical decision-making. Finally, I would like to take a positive example. In Vienna's Landtag, colleague Glawischnig has made a very intense effort to do so, and as a result there is now the Vienna climate protection programme. This includes – I hope this will also be implemented in a targeted manner – that all public institutions in the city of Vienna will gradually change their demand for coffee and tea to products from fair trade. I think these are signals that we can only support – I hope, on a federal level, in all public institutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17819	The next speaker was Mrs Jäger. The clock is set to 8 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17841	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mahatma Gandhi once said: The world has enough for everyone, but not enough for the greed of a few. I would have applied this quote to the relationship between the industrialized countries and the developing countries. But if I look at the debate this week and what the government parties have decided on this week's atrocities, you can say: This can also be applied to Austria. The government is now taking away the poorest, the unemployed, the single parent, the pensioners, and there are the real estate agents, the large landowners and the entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible!]] This is very shortsighted, because it destroys the social state and harms our economy permanently. However, despite everything that happened here this week, I am pleased that we are today bringing in a four-party proposal that supports fair trade. In other words, the proposal includes the need for the Federal Government to take measures in the next few years to better support fair trade in the area of development cooperation, but also in the area of trade. In my opinion, fair trade simply shows that it is possible to achieve the utopia of a fair economic relationship in a world of capital accumulation and of unbridled world trade, which is very often at the expense of the Third World countries. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why fair trade is supported. He also belongs here in Austria to a wider public so that she can buy these products. Fair trade means ensuring the coffee farmers a fixed price. In 1997, for example, it was 126 dollars for a bag of coffee instead of 30 or 40 dollars, as the intermediaries pay it. On the other hand, the consumer pays a little more here in Austria. But we know that fair wages are paid in developing countries, that there are fair working conditions there, that there is no child labour, that in particular a number of stable social projects are supported, that there is a schooling for children in developing countries, that water quality is improved there, and that social projects are created. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, it is simply necessary that fair trade becomes a very stable project in the field of development cooperation. A second aspect, Mr Pirklhuber has already mentioned, is that farmers will only be included in the fair trade sector if they guarantee that the products are produced organically. That means: Conversion to organic cultivation, reforestation as erosion protection or the implementation of biogas projects as alternative energy projects. Our concern must be that fair trade is expanding in relation to world trade, which is not just fair and in which we still find working and living conditions that are unworthy of people. We all know that poverty has been growing worldwide since the 1990s. On the other hand, this is really a shame if you know that the three richest millionaires in the world have more wealth than the gross domestic product of 48 developing countries! This must be imagined, the dimensions that arise in this area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Therefore, I am really glad that the basis for this was already an EU proposal, which was introduced in 1998 and in which the EU also says that fair trade is aimed at making the international trading system more just in the longer term, by progressing with good example and by exerting pressure on governments, international organisations and companies to recognise and take over its most important aspects. I hope – and indeed there has been a consensus among all four parties in the Development Policy Subcommittee – that in 2001 the government will do everything by way of Section VII, to examine what our procurement system looks like, how our legislation is, and how Austrians can better support advertising for fair trade and how we can better inform people about these products. I would like to point out to you all and invite you to do so: ==References== The fair trade and organizations will be presented here in Parliament at half past six o'clock on December and an exhibition of the products. Mr President, Fischer will open this event. There will also be coffee to taste. It will also be seen that these products are at least as good as those from non-fairly traded areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17893	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17915	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The world order is in a break. If we look at how we will live in 20 years, we will find that the population of Western Europe will continue to shrink and the population in developing countries will increase steadily. In 2020, 7.7 billion people will live in this world – by 1.8 billion more than today. Of these 1.8 billion people, only 60 million will be Europeans. In 20 years, industrialized countries will account for only just under 12 percent of the world's population. This should show us that development policy is becoming more and more important for each one of us and is already very important today. The main concern of the Austrian development policy is, in any case, the fight against poverty, it must be! Environmental pollution has long become a global problem – we can now look at The Hague. On the one hand, the resource-intensive economy of the industrialized countries contributes to this, but also to the poverty-related mining policy in the developing countries. The latter can only be met by fighting the causes of poverty. We do not gain anything from the fact that, in the world trade order, we set rules of conduct if we do not enable developing countries to achieve higher incomes. Fair trade with the poorest countries fights poverty very directly and at the root. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The EU Committee on Development and External Economic Affairs identified fair trade as the most efficient development promotion, and the Austrian Federal Government has achieved that the EU and ACP States have granted the principle of fair trade access to the Lomé successor agreement. Fair trade products are purchased directly, without intermediaries. This will give small farmers direct access to the markets, thereby achieving higher prices. The minimum social and environmental standards shall be respected in respect of fair trade products. The European Fair Trade sector imports and sells products from 800 000 producer families from 45 different countries in the world in the highly industrialized countries. Ladies and gentlemen! We're an opinion-maker here! That's why I'm looking for you to pay attention to this seal of goodness when you purchase in the future. [[The speaker holds a poster with the letter "TRANSFAIR" and a logo.]] This seal of quality marks products that are traded fairly. I would like to ask you here, although not always, to get more and more involved in such products. This is especially tea, coffee, chocolate and bananas. I hope that in our clubs, in our companies, at home in our households and here in Parliament, we are increasingly addressing these products – not only out of solidarity with the poorest, but also as a living act of development policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e17981	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e18002	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can say that Mrs Hakl has presented the subject of fair trade a little more charming than Mrs Jager. - But now. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But that was very unchallenged!]] She not only presented it a little more charming, but also a little more serious, for, Mrs. Jäger, you obviously do not come out without enemy images: the entrepreneurs, the real estate agents, the house owners, the large landowners – everywhere there is such an enemy image. - You have to have some problem, but that's not mine. Get done with it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] In particular, you should include entrepreneurs in the problem solution, as Mrs Hakl has done, because you will never solve anything with enemy images. If you are already against the entrepreneurs and wagers, you must also be against the city of Vienna, because the city of Vienna is one of the largest companies in Austria: The city of Vienna, for example, operates the largest body funeral company in the whole Republic, ladies and gentlemen! - But that's just on the verge. Fair trade – yes, we confess to it, and it has also been common in the Committee, but if we confess to this fair trade in developing countries, then we must also confess to a fair trade for Austrian agriculture in the same breath, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Austrian agriculture, which is particularly organic – in the majority – must also be supported in the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber]] For this fairness, I think, we must also act in the same breath, ladies and gentlemen, without adding up or weighing anything against each other! Last comment to you, Mrs Jäger: They also – in the jargon of the Social Democracy of the 1930s – fought against the intermediaries. You would have been unaware of taking care of order in your "consumer", which was also established, among other things, in order to circumvent the trade. Where this model landed, I hope I don't need to explain that to you, ladies and gentlemen. That was the total disaster as regards fair trade and the abolition of the retail trade at fair prices for consumers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss:... then in court!]] To the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court only a brief remark – the essential has already been carried out –: We Liberals agree, of course, because it represents an important step towards a re-definition of a community of values. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen – it has been mentioned briefly – in the most populous countries – in the United States, Pakistan, China and India, which represent more than half of the world’s population, there is constant resistance to it. Ladies and gentlemen! A final remark to the office agreement: Mr Posch! The debate is probably with one of the essential objectives and one of the most essential values of democracy. If Mrs. Dr. Beate Winkler in her letter – you know this letter – does the following: "I regret that I am unfortunately unable to observe this appointment, and I very much hope that we will find an appointment together," and that date has now been found, I think it is rather strange that you are here against this debate. I think this debate is desirable, and therefore we will, of course, decide and ratify this Presidency agreement accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e18093	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e18114	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If, at the end of a three-day discussion, Members are now called to the vote by very intense introduction, then it can only be a constitutional vote. As we all know, it's about the state treaty: Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. There have been some interpretations and information, but it is interesting for me that – according to what is to be read in this report – this decision taken in Rome should actually come into the "Guinness Book of Records". According to the motto "Good thing needs a while" was already in the 15th century. In the 6th century, 600 years ago, an international criminal court was set up. We know: What's good takes a long time. – Now we are ready to join this International Criminal Court today with the ratification of this State Treaty. It has, as always, been, when it's going somewhere, about definitions: One has not agreed on what aggression is or what a crime against humanity is and so on. Only in the 1970s did the UN General Assembly present and adopt the definitions in a resolution. Then the discussion started again, and it is, as already mentioned, on 17 May. It was adopted by 120 votes in favour, 7 against and 21 abstentions of the Rome Statute on 1 July 1998. We will, of course, – and this is gratifyingly – all decide together here in the House, because it is at the end of the day that crimes against humanity, deportations, rapes, forced pregnancies, apartheid, murder, enslavement and torture can be committed internationally, that war crimes, i.e. serious violations of the Geneva Convention, can also come before an international court. So far, each event has been dealt with in a separate manner. I recall the Court of Justice which was installed in the case of Rwanda or Yugoslavia. So that's what's going to belong to the past. There will be a single criminal court to prevent these crimes. I would like to focus briefly on Mr Haigermoser's contribution to the office agreement: We are also in favour of the decision, but we believe that a debate, a discussion with the director, Dr. Winkler, is necessary in order to be able to resolve perhaps various differences of opinion that may exist between one side and the other, according to the motto: "By speaking, people come together." That's what we want, and that's what we've got – I think, on 1st. December – an appointment. Then there should be nothing more in the way of ratification here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e18160	Mr Scheibner is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e18182	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I represent the foreign minister who is taking part in the Balkan Conference in Zagreb today. I would just like to say a few words about the proposals that are being debated today. I believe that it is a very nice signal from Parliament, and therefore also overall Austria, that there are clear signs here, especially in two important areas, concerning the International Criminal Court and Fair Trade. In my view, I can say this as a Minister of Defence, they also have importance from the security point of view, that is, when one sees the concept of security comprehensively. Fair trade concerning: It is clear to us that hunger that social imbalances are often the cause of crises and also military conflicts in developing countries. It must therefore be our responsibility and our interest to do everything we can to give people in their home countries the opportunity to shape their lives and living conditions accordingly. This idea of fair trade can certainly contribute to this. However, implementation should also be pursued consistently. I do not think this is the time to have internal debates or ideological reasons. Secondly, The International Criminal Court. That's a signal, too. It is a signal to dictators, to war criminals that such crimes do not pay off, that the perpetrators will eventually be held accountable wherever they may be. Wherever genocide, crimes against humanity, or war crimes are committed, there must be a clear signal from the democratic community of states that there will be any means to fight such crimes. [[Complementary with the liberals as well as the ÖVP.]] Just, ladies and gentlemen: In view of the terrible crimes we have seen not far from us, in the Balkans, in the area of former Yugoslavia, and to which there is still an international court, an ad hoc court, we must also note that signals are too few. In addition to the setting up of signals and the creation of instruments, it must also be possible to establish concrete actions. It must not be the case that, for some political reasons, precisely these instruments are not applied or only little consistent. There must be no compromise when it comes to bringing war crimes or crimes against humanity into awe. It is a signal, it is a framework, but it will be important and a clear need that the whole of the state community, with the same consequence with which such laws are passed and agreements are ratified, then finally also implement the content of these agreements into reality.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e18231	As the next speaker, Mr Arbitrator is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e18252	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Only one minute to clarify – and thus the government does not have the last word. To clarify: ==References== In fact, December has been agreed between the political groups. Mrs. Winkler's promise is not yet available because she is only returning to the office in these hours. So we will only find out this evening or Monday in the morning whether it can be available for this appointment or not. I think it's a good thing, too, Mrs. Dr. Winkler has given her job the opportunity to take part in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. What I did not think was a link between the ratification of this seat agreement and the appearance of Dr Winkler, because it is not to be seen why the employees of this body, for example, should wait for the agreement in the questions of security and so on, just because there was no date yet to be found for Mrs Winkler to speak and answer the National Council. That doesn't seem fair to me. That's why I was against a link. But I hope that's the first time. This matter was settled on December 1.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e18291	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and Declaration of the Republic of Austria, whose Articles 27 and 89 para. 1 and 3 are constitutional to grant approval in 196 of the Supplements. With regard to the aforementioned constitutional provisions, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty, with regard to the authentic texts of the Statute in Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish, is to be made known by the fact that they exist for public consultation with the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Adopt the extension of the European Government Declaration on the ARIANE Carriers' Production Phase in 295 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 386 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously the case and thus adopted. (E 47.) The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-24-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00046_d7e18373	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 327/A to 329/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1559/J to 1577/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 28 May. November 2000, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
