ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1248	Ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Gerhard Bauer, Ortlieb, Schieder, Ing. Maderthaner as well as MP Dr. Pillow. Representation of members of the Federal Government President Dr Werner Fassleven For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office has communicated resolutions by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the government as follows: The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner will represent Dr. Martin Bartenstein. Entry and allocations President Dr. Werner Fassleven With regard to the negotiating items obtained and their allocation, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 and 60 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 and Investments (80 and 80 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1397	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1418	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" is proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 156 minutes, Freeman and ÖVP each 116 minutes, Green 92 minutes. The term of office of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the Secretary of State responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 10 minutes, shall be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries will be counted from the outset on the speaking time of the respective government group. – Are there any objections to this agreement? We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Advisory Group VIII Chapter 60: Agriculture, forestry and water management (including economic compensatory estimate), Chapter 61: Environment new, Chapter 18: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1460	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group VIII. A request for oral reporting to this advisory group is not provided by the Special Rapporteur. Mrs Sophie Bauer has spoken. I'll give it to her with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1491	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! – Minister of State! [[Abg. Dr. Zernatto talks to Federal Minister Mag. Molterer.]] [[Abg. Reitsamer: Mr. Minister! Mr. Zernatto should go to his place!]] He doesn't listen now. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Of course I listen to you!]] Good. – I had hoped that in spite of savings measures in the agricultural budget 2000, a step would be taken to improve small farmers and auxiliary farmers. Since you, Mr. Federal Minister, were on 6 June. In April 2000 in the Federal Council, I was still talking about a realistic implementation of the base amount for smaller farms, the promotion of the investments of farmers, the development of the processing industry, premiums for young entrepreneurs and new rural measures, and I hoped that you would also take into account the social component in the 2000 budget. Federal Minister! It would be the top priority, especially in the case of tight budgetary resources, to seek social security in the event of savings, which you, Mr Federal Minister, and your colleague Bartenstein, call for in all areas, except in the field of agricultural support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this budget, the blue and black Federal Government has failed to achieve a socially fair rate of agricultural support. We, the Social Democrats, have made sure in the past coalition government that the socialisation was gradually introduced into sub-areas. Federal Minister! You are now even in the process of intensifying the social contrasts with your actions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The objective of a fair distribution of agricultural funding and of internal solidarity contradicts the fact that estates of counties and princes in our country are cashing five, ten, even 20 million schilling, while small businesses, miners and farms in disadvantaged areas are fed with a fraction of these sums. Especially in the Styria there are many small-scale structures of agriculture, by- acquisition and mining. And especially in this area, income is so low that it is almost insufficient for survival. The plan of a tax reduction in diesel fuel certainly benefits the large-scale owners and is also to be rejected for environmental reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I have already made myself hope that you will keep a word and support the weaker. They are not new as the Federal Minister in this field. They have experience and have also demonstrated in various statements this year how important the services of the rural family farms are, which ensure the protection and conservation of attractive habitats and recreation areas, because this also allows tourism to be further expanded. Federal Minister! ==References====External links== On the one hand, on the other hand, it is noted that the number of farmers holding victualling farms is falling, on the other hand, that this smaller number of farmers is increasing the livestock population. This is the evidence of the currently practised promotion by volume, while the work performed in a family operation of a miner or a small farmer, where it is not possible to work with machines, but the human labour force is used under difficult conditions, is not taken into account. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! You said you're just going to work for this group, you're just going to pay tribute to the services of the miners, the small farmers, so that even the small farms are able to compete with their livelihood. With this budget, Minister of State, there will be another migration and farmer's death. That is why we Socialists will not give this budget our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1575	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1597	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Sophie Bauer has to say that we in Austria have very small-structured agriculture. Let us take a closer look at our structures: Of the 240 000 holdings in Austria, 86 500 farms operate an agricultural area of 123,000 hectares. That is, these 86 500 farms have an average of less than 2 hectares. Now, if, so to speak, the total number of market rules is transferred to these farms, it is logical that, since they only manage 4 percent of the agricultural land, but represent 35 percent of the farms, they will not be able to reach an average amount. But I will address this in the course of my remarks. I would like to take advantage of the time to present, on the one hand, the achievements of agriculture and forestry, but also to ask: What does the Austrian citizen, the Austrian citizen, expect from Austrian farmers? The first task of the farmer is still the diet of the population. Never before in our history has Austria's peasantry so sufficiently covered the people's table with food of as high quality, and in addition, food has never been as cheap as it is at present. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian population spends only 17 percent of their total income for food and drink, and ten years ago it was 25 percent and 20 years ago it was 30 percent. In other words, an essential part of the standard of living in Austria has been achieved by the fact that agricultural products have become considerably cheaper over the last five years. This was also the reason for a very sharp fall in inflation during this period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second essential task of Austrian agriculture, the farmers is the care of the cultural landscape up to the glacier regions. This task is very important for the recovery of our population. The urban population also wants to have a leisure space, and that is the rural area. Not only guests from abroad come to us. Fakely, we always say that we advertise our guests with the well-kept landscape, but also for the domestic population, a well-kept landscape up to the glacier regions is part of their quality of life. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Think, for example, of the farmhouses decorated with flowers: Our farmers, who are already overloaded, do so by the way and free of charge, because they are pleased with such decorated houses and well-kept gardens. We are selling our well-kept landscape. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: But there they must have the money to do it!]] Minister Molterer once meant that is the face of Austria. None of us want to lose the face, and Austria will not lose its face if we can get the peasantry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another task is to revitalise rural areas. The settlement in the Alpine valleys will soon no longer be possible if we cannot keep our farmers there. The peasantry was originally the source of popular culture and is still with a very important designer of our folk culture. Nothing against the high culture, but Austria is also influenced by popular culture. We boast that 81 percent of our rivers and lakes have clean water, which lakes have almost all bathing water quality. Agriculture makes a significant contribution to this. All these tasks prove that the Austrian farmers perform this multifunctional function to an outstanding extent for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now one of the accusations made in the context of budgetary treatment last week, but also yesterday, that farmers would receive billions of gifts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture is also a victim of the stabilisation of the budget. The chapter "Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management" - I would like to quote this from the corresponding budget section - has a budget of 21.2 billion schilling in this year, adjusted by the experimental and administrative costs. In 1995 it was still 33.2 billion schilling. [[Abg. Edlinger: Stay S’ fair!]] So there is a drop of one third, and in view of that, it cannot be said that agriculture would receive billions of gifts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Some comparisons. It is also clear from this budget that the Austrian Federal Railways alone for the national economic services each year 8,5 billion Schilling – for the national economic services alone! - get it. This is more than the entire agriculture is receiving, because of these 22 billion schillings there are backflows of the EU in the amount of 13 billion schilling. That is to say, the real budget burden on taxpayers in Austria is 6.5 billion schilling for 240 000 farmers, and I think the farmers deserved it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Last Friday, there was an amendment to the budget chapter "Science" by Dr. Niederwieser and Dr. Einm. This amendment would have brought 1.577 million schilling more budget resources for universities alone, although for universities in the 2000 budget, 20.3 billion were estimated against 17.5 billion schilling in 1999. It is also clear that agriculture has made its contribution to saving in the context of budget creation. And one last thing, because it's always called supporting the little ones more. We will also introduce from the coming year the base amount for the compensation allowance, only: This base amount is part of rural development, and this programme has not yet been decided in Brussels. That is why we have to leave the compensation allowance as it was in 1999. But: We can contribute to supporting the small ones, namely the graduated population key. There is, of course, the real social injustice there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If a citizen in the city of Vienna alone corresponds to more than 10 000 S and a citizen in a municipality below 10,000 inhabitants only 6 000 S, then there is a real need for reform. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Look at the achievements, Mr Colleague!]] Moreover – and we are pleased about that – this graded population key is only sustainable by the constitutional provision, and it is stated in the law that this Constitutional provision was adopted on 31 December. ==References====External links== This gives us the opportunity to also achieve greater justice for rural areas and for the weak communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1715	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1736	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! We are talking today about the agricultural budget, and I am particularly concerned in my contribution with measuring this budget by what you have announced, Mr Federal Minister. The Government Declaration states that promotions must be socially fair and effective. A week ago, for example, at a joint press conference with the Minister for Agriculture, Bavaria, Mr Miller, you found – I would like to quote briefly – that: This multifunctional, sustainable, comprehensive agriculture model needs to be defended against an ever-increasing intensification pressure resulting from an increased structural change. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the key issue. Where does this pressure come from, Mr Federal Minister, and what will be done about it? Are you a Minister of Agriculture since October, have you been a Minister of Agriculture for five years? How long have you been in this responsibility? This is, of course, to be answered clearly, and therefore also my question, which follows: Have you not done exactly what you criticise here, namely to intensify Austrian agriculture with a model of support which is not socially efficient and which is not ecologically sound, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is the whole tragedy of this finding that you yourself are making: Finally, the promotions given on the basis of sizes and numbers of animals favour larger farms. They receive higher promotions on the basis of a larger area. You have not solved this problem to this day, and you have not dealt with it in any way in this draft budget. I would like to go back to the overall budget and also question formal criteria of this budget. At first glance, the budget framework – 23.5 billion schilling – does not look at any increase. If we look at exactly how this budget has been achieved, and if I take account of the requests made by the Committee on Budgets, I must say that you yourself, Mr Federal Minister, have admitted that additional billions will still come from the EU in the field of funding. In concrete terms, you said: 1.87 billion Schilling more funding from Brussels than provided for in your budget proposal. I would ask you to include effective, clear figures in this budget in the sense of budgetary truthfulness and clarity. Then you will insist that this budget does not include 23.5, but at least 25 billion schilling and more. – The approach to this general approach. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: What's bad about it?]] We can see, if we now address individual budget positions, that there have been very different developments, with partly not insignificant increases, Mr. Federal Minister, such as increases in federal funds in the agricultural market Austria by more than 20 percent. An increase of 342 million schilling to 418 million schilling means an increase of more than 20 percent. On the other hand, we also note an increase of 50 percent for agricultural measures, from 24 million to 35 million Schilling. In the field of advertising and market development, on the other hand, cuts are 10 per cent, while cuts are also made in quality improvement measures and in research, ladies and gentlemen. If you have reservations about many of these quality improvement measures from an environmental point of view, it is up to you to set new priorities here, and I miss them in this budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, what about your lip commitment to possible synergies between the environment and agriculture, Mr Molterer? Innovative approaches such as organic farming or biomass energy remain a shadow in addition to traditional budget positions such as agricultural market Austria, chamber funding and market regulatory expenditure. Would it not have been your primary task to support the appreciation of your ministry as a result of the increase in the environment by an ecological offensive in agriculture? And this is the central question here: How is it and how can this be possible in Austria? How could you do that? We have already discussed this in this House. You have not taken advantage of the possibilities of modulation, the measure by which you could convert market regulatory expenditure towards environmental expenditure. In order to clarify this, modulation does not mean that clear ceilings or degression models are to be used in all agricultural support measures. No, ladies and gentlemen. Modulation means the possibility of converting agricultural resources from market spending to environmental expenditure and at the same time doubling these measures by national contributions. This is an opportunity, Mr Federal Minister, to make a precarious agricultural budget more socially just and ecologically sound. And that's also a manko of your proposal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, an agricultural policy that does not lead to more and stronger environmental orientation is a bear service to agriculture. In the future, they will come into an argumentation emergency. Mrs Bauer has already discussed it: If large businesses receive several million schillings, up to 20 million schillings, this can no longer be offset with labour market arguments, if this is not even evaluated and if no clear degression models are taken in here. The current modulation that, from 100 hectares, from 300 hectares and from 1,000 hectares, a degression in the area of public transport will be effective is ridiculous, in my opinion, because how many farms are there in Austria that manage more than 1,000 hectares of agricultural land? I also come to a statement of your place of business in this reply to the question. A social policy – you say there – with CAP premiums, i.e. with these market-regulation premiums, is to be rejected. The income generated by farmers is clearly to be separated from the granting of social compensation. – On the one hand, there is the lip record in the government statement – promotions must be socially fair and objective – but on the other hand, Mr Federal Minister, in a questioning response, you say quite clearly that these measures cannot be used to achieve social compensation in the Austrian agricultural policy. The modulation, you say, can only be introduced in the same way as other EU countries. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is in fact not correct because the EU rural regulation provides that there are very likely to be national programmes for this retransformation. France is making use of this possibility; You know this, Minister of State, I have mentioned it to you several times. Where's the announced mining billion? How should it ever be financed, Mr Federal Minister, if not through this transformation, if not by modulation, through social justice in the agricultural sector itself, because you cannot otherwise finance this social contribution? [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] We will see in the autumn how you want to make use of these resources. And what about the mental area? Where are your signals for greater legal certainty for farmers? Where does the publication of the catalogue of sanctions of the agricultural market in Austria remain for the promotions? Where is the assurance for farmers that they also have a legal claim for environmental services, namely a subjective legal claim, ladies and gentlemen? I am already in the next area, namely the ecological orientation and target accuracy of your proposal and budget. You know very well that conventional agriculture contributes significantly to the greenhouse effect in our global situation. This proportion of agriculture accounts for about 15 per cent, 80 per cent of CO2 emissions come from farm purchases such as fertilizers, feed, as well as machines. Overall, the atmosphere per kilogram of nitrogen fertiliser is charged with the equivalent of 10 kilograms of CO2, per kilogram of pesticides used 19 kilograms of CO2. And you are seriously proposing a reduction in the rate of VAT on farm resources as a target for Austrian agriculture, and this as an environmental minister! I still think this is one of the Achilles of your current agricultural policy, and I hope you will correct this over the next few weeks and months. I would like to discuss once again this ecological orientation, which Mr Schwarzenberger has also mentioned, in the rural development programme, which is still in Brussels for approval. They say – we have discussed this in this House – that it is about implementing improved agricultural environmental measures. I am also missing clear statements in the field of objectives and indicators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for example in the field of organic farming. I've tried to discuss this with you several times. It is a manko if you hold in a rural development programme: It is only about maintaining the share of organic farming in Austria, 19 000 farms, 200 000 hectares of Greenland, 60 000 hectares of arable land. This is what you say for a programme period from 2000 to 2006. Federal Minister! This is neither target-specific nor forward-looking, nor kind of innovative. Further: They have for months refused our call for an accompanying committee for this rural development programme, as provided for in the EU Regulation. We could accompany this programme. Let us constantly evaluate it, look at the results and discuss these results, Mr Federal Minister, in this House, because that is, I believe, of very central importance. If we do not succeed in democratically legitimizing the expenditure of 105 billion Schilling in these five to six years, your beautiful speech, Mr Schwarzenberger, will not be enough to ensure the necessary resources for our organic farmers, for our miners and for our ecologically efficient farms in the social debate. And finally, when we look closely at the priorities and priorities that are not in place in your programme, I would also like to address the question of genetic engineering research. You have said very clearly in several responses to the questions: 24 million schilling for genetic engineering research, and of which you want to carry 50 percent over the next three years. This represents 10 percent of agricultural research in your budget. 10 percent of agricultural research funds for a gentech resistance marille that we do not currently need in Austria! They are talking about this – which is also a result of the Government Declaration – that genetic engineering should only be assessed on a case-by-case basis. – And that is exactly what you are pressing for, I think, in the face of a very clear decision in principle, a basic decision for Austrian agriculture, namely: Where's the train going? I would just like to remind you that, in April of this year, the Swiss Farmers' Association decided to release GMOs in a selective moratorium by the year 2010. This should be written to you in the main book, Mr Schwarzenberger. I would also expect this from the Farmers' Federation: a clear definition of an ecologically precise future development of agriculture. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At this point, I would also like to remind you that in the field of feed, with regard to the freedom of genetic engineering of feed and seeds – I recall my request in this House – you have just said no to a way of defining clearly the course now, the course of a non-genotechnic Austrian agriculture. In April of this year, the region of Tuscany in Italy declared itself as a genetic-technology-free region. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a development of the future, which is a question of agricultural development in Europe, and if we do not act here immediately and take appropriate measures, we will not be in the front, but will go backwards. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, on this subject – and this seems to me to be central and essential: In your budget approach, but also in your government programme, there is no clear commitment to an ecological spearhead, namely organic farming, and to the implementation of an appropriate action programme, an action plan for this organic farming. If Austria wants to maintain its pioneering role in Europe, we need a new impetus, a broadening and strengthening of all activities in order to be able to use these future markets for Austrian agriculture in the next few years. We need this National Action Plan to make the framework conditions in organic farming more attractive. You know, Minister of State: At the beginning of 2000, we had a drop of 5 percent in the number of organic farms. There's a need for action! What will you do? I found nothing in the budget. They say lapidar: Well, the funds for organic farming have remained the same anyway, they have not been reduced in the field of organic farming institutions. And then I look at how in other areas, for example machine rings, 50 per cent more funding is provided, in the field of agricultural bureaucracy, the processing of the agricultural market Austria, well over 20 per cent more funds are available. But there is no big deal for organic farming, Mr. Federal Minister. This is a manko, and you should urgently correct your budget once again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, because here is always asked: What is the green alternative? We have clear alternatives: increasing the environmental programme for organic farming by reclassifying less ecological measures and introducing upper limits and involving labour in the criteria for awarding agricultural funding. What we need is an action plan for organic farming, as Denmark presented in a 100-page paper. It's the highest railway that we get something like that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1836	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e1857	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pirklhuber, you are right to criticise the fact that in agriculture, mainly by area and by livestock, only that, Mr Pirklhuber, is the principle of EU agricultural policy. We knew this before we joined the Union. Your group was for accession, although it... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: There are new possibilities, Mrs. Aumayr!]] This was the principle and is the principle of EU agricultural policy. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pirklhuber, let me speak out, we can then discuss this even more closely. You only need the Eurostat of 14. March to read: From 1967 to 1997, i.e. in 30 years, 2.7 million farms disappeared in the EU's founding countries! 40 percent of farmers have been ruined in the founding countries in these 30 years. And it is also to be read that the smaller farms disappear in favor of the larger farms. This too is a consequence of this EU agricultural policy. So you don't need to make up and wonder about it now. We knew that. Now to the farmers' budget. I'm really wondering: Who benefits from this loss of income, the demigration in agriculture? - None of us. And who are the winners of an agricultural policy in which the farm can survive? - All of us. This means that agricultural policy really affects all of us, all social classes. Many courts have been abandoned in recent years. Two-thirds of the farmers in Austria are working in by-catches. Why? – Because dramatic income losses have led farmers to look for opportunities of merit outside their farm. Not from Jux and Tollery, Mrs. Bauer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] The consequence, of course, is a displacement process for the other self-employed persons. – This is proof that agricultural policy is employment policy. This wrong income policy in agriculture destroys the already existing jobs on the farm, and we need to correct this, because the consequences of this are also noticeable in the social field, Mrs Colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] – That’s the budget, the farmers’ income is important. The budget is important, Mr Gradwelt. That's what we're talking about! I know you don't want to talk about farmers' budgets, it probably doesn't fit into your ideological thinking. Mrs Bauer! "Sacrifice" of these tight budgets for farmers are partly also the farmers who have been totally revised. On the basis of the fact that so many farmers are working side-by-side, someone has to do the job at home – these women have to do the heavy work of their husband, but they have to continue to care for child rearing, household management and very often also care for the care of parents or parents-in-law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] I know, Mrs Bauer, that you don't want to see the connection. I can only tell you: Agriculture policy is also women's policy! But you just don't take note of that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ has been responsible for women's policy in the past. Mrs. Ex-Minister Prammer was the farmers, I can only tell you, never a concern at all. The only example of the farmer is that the women's policy of the past federal government has failed. The farmers were the main victims of this non-social policy of Mr Prammer. Back to the budget for the farmers. – The average farmer's pension, Mrs. Bauer, is 6 700 p. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: And that's what industrial workers have!]] A farmer has an average of 5 200 S pension. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You don't need to tell me that, I know!]] – Mrs Bauer! You can't always talk about capitalists or big property owners or what I know. 5 200 S! That's the lowest of all incomes. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You don't need to tell me that! I know! You contradict yourself in your approaches!]] – But you are all the time talking about the budget for farmers providing far too many billion schilling. That's just not true, Mrs. Colleague. I also have to say the following: Austria is a country in which tourism plays a major role. In addition to the beauty of our country, hospitality, the quality of food and the care of the landscape also play a role. And that can no longer be at a zero rate, Mrs Bauer. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Yes, we know that ourselves!]] – Drive once at 30 degrees with a motor mower or help you with the hay harvest! Test Let me ask you this, Mrs Bauer! [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: I said all that, but you don't understand...!]] Farmers' incomes are constantly falling. For such an hourly wage, you would not even touch your little finger, Mrs. Bauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Then you don't know what work is in an industrial company! You have no idea!]] The policy is, of course, required in this area; the food industry is also required. I am really happy that we have succeeded in finally ensuring in a government agreement that farmers' incomes no longer fall, but that it is coming back to justice in agricultural policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This also includes the approval of farm resources – a long-standing promise to the farmers. I would like a happy hand to all of us and the Minister of Agriculture to implement this government agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2039	Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke next time. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2060	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to comment on the agriculture chapter at this point and to keep the possibility open – I will, of course, also use it – to comment later on the environmental chapter. Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed true that agriculture, not only in Austria but also in Europe as a whole, is in a massive change than the tasks addressed to agriculture are becoming increasingly demanding. It is not only that the issue of quantitative food supply is at the centre of attention, but of course it is increasingly addressed to agriculture with regard to the quality of food orientation. It is clear that from my point of view, the question of consumer protection rightly raises an increasingly high claim. It is also clear that the issue of sustainable strategy and development on the environmental orientation of agriculture poses important challenges. At the same time – and this has to be said – agriculture is in the field of tension that the stronger competitive wind exerts economic pressure. I therefore believe that agricultural policy is essentially called upon to ensure the socially desirable benefits of agriculture, but that we also implement politically those framework conditions that agriculture can do. I am of the opinion that, in many discussions, farmers rightly point out that the right and reality in the real competitive world are quite apart. And that is what I consider to be the essential agricultural policy, yes, I would like to say, social responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The agricultural policy must therefore develop beyond the traditional instruments that we have been accustomed to for decades and deal with new issues, and that is what we are doing. I believe that we in Austria have shown in recent decades that we have always had our noses in the agricultural policy. When I think about the eco-debate, for example, when I think about small businesses, when I think about rural development policy, I have to say that we have given impulses, especially in Europe, through our example – I do not want to be overly high, but also – especially in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In my view, this second pillar of agricultural policy, which is currently under development in Europe, is not insignificantly influenced by our experience and our philosophy. I believe that we must continue to work on this process. It is therefore up to all of us – and this task I feel as well as the entire federal government – that we are committed to this concept of agriculture, which ensures sustainability, which ensures the comprehensive management that fulfils all functions but is also competitive. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there will be many discussions here, and I have nothing to do with it, such as environmental orientation. In contrast to many, I call myself for a comprehensive ecological orientation and not for a concept, which says: Hie Bio – and we don't care about the rest! No, no, no, I mean, organic is the tip of a global positive development. That's my strategy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why we will also move forward in this direction, on the basis of the programme, which, I assume, will be approved in Brussels in June and which will allow us to apply the OPUL 2000 next year, and which will allow us to realize, of course, next year, Mrs Bauer, the amount of the base. If that's what you want: Yes, in this sense, the 2000 budget is also an intermediate step, an intermediate step to ensure that every schilling is collected from Brussels and that we develop the structures through which we can actually apply the new possibilities of Agenda 2000 from next year onwards: in the environmental programme, in mining, in investment promotion, in the whole rural development policy. – That is the objective, that is the task I feel committed to, ladies and gentlemen! Now on some very brief political issues. Are we holding the distribution debate? – Yes, but let us lead them as she has been led, ladies and gentlemen! I am not willing to accept a discussion in which, on the one hand, it is accused of being a budget of class struggle, and on the other hand, it means: We reject the budget because it offers too few perspectives. Either – or! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Debates of the European Parliament What is this supposed to look like in the Union's market-regulation premiums? I am in favour of them being staggered by size in the Union, but I reject the fact that we are putting Austrian businesses worse than their competitors, I say that clearly to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or: Example environmental programme. – I suppose you agree with me that the first acre – ecologically managed – is ecologically as important as the thousandth of acres! Good. This is why the surface cover is really smart. We have implemented the possibilities we have here. We have finally reached the stage of mining promotion, as have the investment promotion. If there is a discussion in Europe – for example, yesterday it took place – then you know what Austria is for. But I am in favour of a correct debate and not one that is being held there or there politically. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also an open word for structural change. – Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone complain, not now in this specific case, I mean... [[Abg. Swimming: Oh, yeah!]] But perhaps you have also joined us, Mr Schwemlein, you do not know. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Perhaps you would even acknowledge and complain about what I am now saying. We are in a field of tension, Mr President, which we, namely agriculture, demand to produce as cheap as possible, because consumers claim to have the most cheap food possible. At the same time, it is said that as small units as possible and as high an ecological level as possible. I'd ask you: Help me overcome this contradiction, for example, so that the market and thus the consumers of this agriculturally sustainable agriculture can break through! One of these contradictions, one of these misunderstandings, Mr Pirklhuber, is evident in the means of operation. I've assumed you know the farmers, I know you; You too, I know. Farmers are cool computers, and farmers will not spend too much on farm resources, even if farm resources are cheaper, because this is simply a cost factor. That is why you do not give a wrong impression here, Mr Pirklhuber. I'm in favour of cost-fairness. If you want competitiveness and competitiveness, you should actually support me on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One last thing, because I'd like to explain this: I have looked at many of the action programmes for organic farming you have quoted, which is very interesting. Many of these action programmes have the objective of reaching Austrian level. So, for example, countries like France need to catch up. Mr Pirklhuber! I want us to continue the positive development of organic farming. For this, the conditions have also been created – not through written action plans, but through the practical policy pursued daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2169	The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2203	Mr President. Federal Minister! The introductory words of your contribution to the debate can really be signed, because the agricultural policy you have been operating in recent years has been a decent, decent one and has also helped agriculture in particular. This budget, however, Mr Federal Minister, Mr Hohes Haus, is a budget of inequality: the one who has nothing of it has to pay, and others who do not need it get something. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Example!]] Federal Minister! High house! Example: Base amount as well as public storage: 1.4 billion Schilling, diesel oil tax reduction by 1.3 billion Schilling, plant protection and fertiliser tax reduction by 0.3 billion Schilling, biodiesel blending by 0.3 billion Schilling and unit value reduction by 0.5 billion Schilling. And this money – you can now say that is class struggle, I don't feel it as class struggle, but as fair – is paid by the workers, employees and pensioners of this state so that certain large farmers in this country get even more money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zweytick!]] [[Abg. Prince: I don't know!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! That's not enough! I am astounded at the fact that this coalition, particularly representatives of the ÖVP, is still hiding – Mr Schwarzenberger! – to attack the cities. Col. Schwarzenberger is attacking her in so far as he says it is not fair that the city of Vienna gets more money than... [[Abg. Prince: Because the financial compensation is unfair!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Do you not know what services cities provide for the citizens of this country? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's ridiculous!]] Do you not know, for example, what the Viennans have to take on everything, so that the thousands of commuters who come to Vienna every day have proper traffic conditions? [[Abg. Prince: The tears come to me! The poor Vienna!]] Don't you know what the Viennans are doing in the hospital sector? Don't you know what the city dwellers do to this country's cultural contribution? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Do you think the country does not make a cultural contribution?]] Just as you want to drive a rope in between workers, employees, pensioners on the one hand and the wealthy on the other, you also now want to drive a rope between the urbans and the rurals. The city's inhabitants will remember this statement precisely on the part of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Against the background of these tight budgetary resources, I must say that it would have been really better if you would continue to stick to your previous policy, namely: Meeting security in social responsibility. It would be better if you continued to pursue the social phase of agricultural support. It would be better for you to continue to try to have a cover, and to prevent everything from becoming "top-up" explosive so that the "small" farmer, the "small" farmer in this country does not stay on the track. That the Freedom Party is involved, we know that anyway. Just as you are workers traitors, you are also traitors to agriculture! Quite clearly! You have nothing left for the "little" farmers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Treasoners in agriculture"! - I'm requesting an order call!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Please, Mr. Teacher!]] I mean, this party tells people: Thank you for choosing us, we will not represent you now! – This is the policy of the liberals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! For the x-th time I have addressed you in talks with you requests from Vienna agriculture because they are a special concern to me and because, for example, here really are the "small" farmers at home. Here in Vienna are the "small" employment gardeners at home, and they do not have the same opportunities as others. I would therefore ask you to include them in this public service programme. I know you laugh at it, you won't be interested in it, but 60 percent of Austrian vegetables come from Vienna's labor gardeners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I can't understand that you're laughing at these little ones. These are labour-intensive plants which operate under conditions other than those with large fields which can operate large machines. That's the difference. I ask you, Minister of State: Give the Wiener Gartenbetrieben a chance! Help them to enjoy these public promotions too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that we will not only need vegetables, but we also need the jobs offered by the Wiener Gärtners. These "small" farmers have rightly deserved our support and, in particular, your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2407	Mr Brix! For the term "worker traitors", I give you a call for order. In addition to this, I would also draw your attention to the fact that this is already the second call for order that you receive from me. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that I do not think it is impossible for a session to pass without someone else being personally devalued, insulted or defamed. That cannot be the style of political debate, and I urge you to take this seriously and take it into account in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2444	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Brix! If someone here tries to drive a rope between the urban area and the rural area, then certainly not we, but you and the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] One thing to be said to you – and I am actually quite glad that in this new coalition such ideological differences become apparent once again –: We, the ÖVP, and also, I assume, of which I am sure, the FPÖ confesses to us that in our society we are making a solidarity contribution to the development of rural areas – unlike you! We confess to that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will all need a well-developed rural area. We, which we live outside the communities in which we live, are aware of the importance of agriculture for rural development. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's it!]] Let's not take that. But of course we will also be happy to carry out the message you have now announced: Any schilling is too bad for that. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! – I believe that if you look at the financial balance and, for example, the classification in the population key and so on, then you can see quite quickly who is in advantage here and who is at the disadvantage. [[Abg. Edlinger: Mr van Staa demands exactly the opposite! More money for the cities!]] Mr Molterer, the Minister for the Environment, who has been you recently. I would like to begin by congratulating myself for successful government negotiations, which have shown that a ministry has been created by combining agriculture, water management and environmental policy, which – as today's opposition parties demand – is equipped with more competences, a more comprehensive competence – I come to talk about it later! Also congratulations for the success of negotiating an extremely ambitious government programme for this new constellation. [[Abg. Sweam: incense!]] This government programme has three main objectives: to maintain a high level of environmental protection in Austria and to bring the EU standards – I believe that is an important and ambitious objective – to a level that we already know and have in Austria. – An important goal! Second objective: to achieve benefits for the Austrian economy and employment here in Austria through this ambitious environmental policy, through domestic environmental investment, but also through the export of environmental technologies. And third goal: Austria is committed to this and will do all it can to ensure that it continues to fulfil its leadership in the EU's environmental policy – of course, together with some other countries that are similarly ambitious here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition to a clear commitment to anti-atomic policy and a series of measures to improve nuclear safety in Europe, I would like to focus on one area, namely climate protection. I would like to address those who can contribute to this climate change. This is once the sector of business and industry. It must be said that in this area, especially in the last ten, 15 years, very much has happened, that many measures have been implemented with great success, but there are still a number of other possibilities. I would like to refer, above all, to an area of support, namely the so-called environmental protection, which goes beyond the farms, including local authorities. Mr Federal Minister, congratulations on the success of the budget in the relevant areas, which are particularly important for investment, to keep at the level of the previous year, so do not have to accept any reductions. This also applies to this area of environmental support, which holds the previous year's level of almost 500 million schilling. By promoting investment, a multiplicity of investment volumes can be triggered and thousands of jobs created or secured. An UFG-Novelle – that is, a novel of the Environmental Promotion Act – will make it even easier for us to switch to climate-related funding, which is, of course, urgently necessary. We are all committed to the Kyoto objective, and in order to achieve this objective of reducing pollution, of course, this amendment to the Environmental Promotion Act, which is set out in the accompanying legislation on the budget, is very important. Second point: Energy. – Very, very important is our ElWOG, which is currently in the process of innovation. This will include further expansion of the promotion of renewable energy sources, although, of course, we are very, very good with our almost 70 percent hydropower in the production of electricity in Austria. We acknowledge that we also want to promote the share of renewable energies from other sources of energy – be it biomass or others – and we also acknowledge that through a targeted measure in this law we also want to promote the further expansion of small-water power – also an essential contribution to climate protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Two more sets on plant law – an important area also in environmental protection –: Unfortunately, in the past legislative period, together with the Social Democrats, it has not succeeded in implementing the EU directives, the IPPC, Seveso or EIA amendments directive. We will bring these requests to the House today, so that they can be dealt with next week in the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and thus again provide evidence of the speedy implementation of this new coalition's legislative proposals, the coming things that should have been done for a long time, in contrast to the blockades with which we had to fight during the legislative period that has expired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2544	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Speech time: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2565	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I cannot, of course, join these congratulations now. [[Call the ÖVP: Why not?]] That's going to be You don't wonder. . I'm starting with a result that you might know from the football language. Mr Molterer has previously said that he will say something about the environment and agriculture. And I stopped at it: After his first speech, it is now 10 : 0 for agriculture. [[Abg. Auer: It's coming!]] Aha, it's coming afterwards; but at this coalition everything always comes "after". [[Abg. Auer: Second half-time!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Further: The environmental spokesman of the FPÖ, Mr Schweitzer, takes a positive view of the environmental policy of the first 100 days of this coalition. – Mr. Khol, on the other hand, said on the mission "On the matter" – I quote: Nothing has yet been done in environmental policy, but that is still happening. - Quote. So environmental policy is clearly always "at the same time" or "later". [[Abg. Friend: This is the way it is with the Greens!]] The balance sheet on what is now to be assessed is by no means a positive one. [[Call the ÖVP:Oja!]] I was already very disappointed by your government agreement. I can't congratulate you on this either, because this lacks some very, very relevant points, which I would like to add briefly: Nature conservation, species conservation and so on. All this only happens when you want to build a national park in Lechtal. – You can see how this is done there; there is massive resistance in this matter. And the Federal Government has not yet spoken with any syllables about whether it actually wants to implement it. And now on what is at least planned in terms of environmental law. The forthcoming amendment to plant law does not constitute a fair balance between economic and environmental interests, but means an absolute dismantling of environmental standards. Just remember Mr Kopf's request last year, which was intended to remove citizens' initiatives from the procedure, in which it was planned that these could no longer be addressed to the Administrative Court, that the UVE should be expelled from the proceedings, and so on. "Where no complainant, no judge!"This proverb is known to you all. So now comes an absolute disassembly of environmental standards, although in recent times it has been the case in environmental law – I emphasize: approach! .................................................................................................. On the subject of environmental information: The Arhus agreement has still not been ratified. Any participation of citizens' initiatives and environmental organisations is gradually prevented. This has not even been ratified, Mr Schweitzer. Isn't that embarrassing?- Oh, my God! Although Austria has signed this agreement, it has not ratified it! Yeah, 100-day balance; it's only later. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tell the Red!]] Will everything be "later"? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What the Reds didn't bring together in 30 years, we should reach in 100 days!]] On the topic of nuclear policy: For me, it was a very unpleasant situation when I was lobbying in the Czech Republic against the completion of the Temelin AKW and was asked to serve there that the Austrian Ministry of Economic Affairs approved import power contracts from the Czech Republic to Austria. That's very unpleasant, I have to say. I haven't experienced such an in-de-back case for a long time! We Greens have to operate lobbying abroad because this government is unable to do so – and then something like that happens! I don't know which minister approved it, but I'm sure it was an ÖVP minister: either Farnleitner or Bartenstein. – That is, as I have said, very, very unfortunate. What the TEC Temelin is going to do: I have not heard anything about this from the current Federal Minister responsible for the environment, water management and agriculture. We of the Greens were the only ones – in addition to representatives of environmental NGOs and colleagues from SPÖ – who raised objections to the completion of the Temelin nuclear power station. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We were there!]] You did not make a formal objection there!; I was on site and asked myself. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's not true!]] There has been no formal application of the Republic of Austria in this EIA procedure. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: That's not true!]] I know you sent some letter, a statement, but without the weight that this is done on behalf of the Republic of Austria. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: That's just wrong!]] I feel very, very sorry about not taking advantage of this opportunity! The offer of the Czechs to make a public discussion procedure in Austria has not yet been used! I do not know when this should take place or where you would have been working to ensure that this environmental impact assessment is discussed in some way in Austria. The means we have, and those that the Czechs have offered on their own... [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Please don't do that!]] Yes! You can join me next time and ask the Czech Foreign Minister or the Minister for the Environment in detail how the situation is there. You can comment on this later. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer) Who should drive with her: you or me?]] It's annoying me that you always say, "later!" The environmental balance of your first 100 days is really disillusioning, Mr Schweitzer. She's really disillusioning! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That Mr. Klubobmann Khol on the show "On the matter" of itself has confirmed that nothing has happened in environmental policy until now, that this is only "later", I really find remarkable. And I also find it remarkable what different views there are now between ÖVP and FPÖ. On the subject of eco-social tax reform. There are a number of communities that have signed a petition to the National Council; this petition is entitled "Ecotaxes now!". Some Members of this House are also present in these constituencies: In total, there are 51 national councillors who come from constituencies or municipalities in which this petition was signed. There are also some ÖVP and FPÖ members. I therefore ask you to take this seriously, because it is really about an incredibly high labour force potential. And I also find it sad that, when it comes to climate protection, when it really is about changing the cost framework in which we move, and going towards redistributing the taxation of work to resources, one gets to hear the same record again and again, something that I can't hear at all anymore, since you're just saying "in the international equation" that must happen! Sustainability is important, eco-social tax reform is important – but you do not move millimeters on these issues, do not make eco-social tax reform! Why not, Minister of State?- Oh, my God! I just don't understand. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's all in progress!]] I'm really asking in your direction now, because you've been responsible for it for 100 days. [[Abg. Young: Do you not know how long a review will take?- Oh, my God!]] I'd be glad if it just started once. The petition "Ecosocial Tax Reform Now!" was signed in these municipalities. I need to see if the community you are from is there. [[in the direction of the Abg. Young]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: In the ElWOG it will be...!]] The topic of climate protection: We in Austria were one of the first – that was almost 15 years ago – who started to discuss this issue. In the meantime, however, we are the last ones, since there is no progress in implementing the climate change package. Even the French have managed to create a climate change package. Austria's balance sheet point reduction of CO2 emissions is devastating; currently there is an absolute historical ceiling of CO2 emissions in Austria; never has such high emissions been measured. In the meantime, it is also so – the Toronto target is not even mentioned by you again – that the Kyoto target is by no means attainable with this course. With a fundamental reorientation without intervention into the cost structure, it will not go! That's why I'm always on this demand: "Ecosocial tax reform now!" [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With regard to waste policy, I would also like to lose a few words now, because your previous balance sheet also looks quite devastating; also the waste policy of all the previous ÖVP ministers who were or are still responsible for it. Waste burning will continue to be forced instead of investing in the prevention of waste. And I also refer in this context to as negative developments as the "death" of the glass bottle. It is really bad, Mr Federal Minister, to simply take it to the contrary and not to touch a finger on this matter! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am really sorry that one does not support companies in this area, companies that have, for example, invested in multi-way containers, in glass bottles. These are now forced to change their production to PET disposable bottles! It's devastating! Federal Minister Molterer! If You are also an ÖVP Environment Minister who fails in this area, then I am personally extremely disappointed by you, but I hope and appeal to you to intervene there; There are possibilities for this. You have to stop this development, otherwise the glass bottle is "dead" please! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] People are certainly not just talking to me about this, but they will probably get upset with you, even if you have claimed that consumers do not want the glass bottle at all. But of course your statement also has a different background: If one forces waste burning, if one forces a single technology in this context, invests resources in a purely disposal-oriented waste policy, then of course this development is not surprising, because then one needs disposable bottles as fuel. This is the economic background of this matter. On the topic of summer ozone, because it has been discussed for so long. – I have to say: I can't read my own press releases anymore because it's the same every year because you don't move in this area. [[Cheerfulness and call to the liberals: I believe that!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Self-knowledge is the first way to improve!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You don't need to laugh, because the whole thing is really devastating! It has been like this for ten years now: I always demand the same, the VCÖ always says the same, the ÖAMTC always says the same – but nothing happens about this problem! That's incredible! Report You're in my situation once, just as frustrating that's for me: Every year I have to say the same thing about this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In connection with the summer ozone, please do not consider "small" air pollution. She's like: 130,000 asthmatics suffer massively! This old "Philosophy": The cars on the road and the children in the basement, if there is ozone alarm!, please be over! [[Abg. Gaugg: That's what the Murer said! Murer was that!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] But now you have the responsibility – and therefore my once again request, please, please do something in this area at last! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I am happy to tell you how often the warning level has been reached. And this is a lead indicator of air pollution, just as it is in the case of CO2 emissions, where a very important statement can be made through certain ecological contexts. If you deny all this, you can just as deny the greenhouse effect! Nevertheless, these days we will again reach the ozone warning level. In any case, I expect you to have something to do with this before the summer! This is my appeal to the Minister responsible for the environment, agriculture and water management. In conclusion: Environmental policy is not just something that has a defensive character; Environmental policy is also an incredibly great opportunity: Labour potential, export orientation, technology orientation. All these are opportunities that you need to see and offensively take. This is not something where one has to weigh between environmental and economic interests; by the way, it is not the case with nature conservation. The construction, operation of a national park brings more economically than construction, civil engineering and road construction. Look You're looking at the latest Wifo investigations! And that's why I wonder why you're never offensive about this. The Government Convention is a totally defensive matter, which concerns only: As little environmental protection as possible. Furthermore, things such as "golden plating", do not go beyond EU directives, do not create any competitive disadvantages, rather than see them as an opportunity, as an opportunity in terms of quality of life – and also as such in economic terms. The first to move in this area, which is the fastest in innovative solutions, including alternative energies, has a greater chance. When I look at what the head of the Vienna City Works, Karl Skyba, says to alternative energies in today's newspaper reports, I almost get a nervous breakdown. It's unbearable! The opportunities offered by these technologies, solar technology, need to be used offensively – and not just to implement "a biterl" EU directives. This is certainly not the case! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2964	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e2985	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Glavischnig has said a lot, but I have missed one so far: Have you actually noticed that no social democracy has so far spoken about environmental policy? [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Will come yet!]] You have an excellent record to show when it comes to proving leadership in SPÖ's personnel policy, which Mr Gusenbauer has not proved. With your help, it has succeeded in demolating the environmental fraction in the SPÖ – it is no longer there! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: I don't understand!]] I will explain this by quoting from a "FORMAT" article, which bears the title "Green-Red Duel of Eco-Speakers". In this it says: "Support in the human conversion of his party receives Gusenbauer from an unusual side. The green environmental speaker Eva Glavischnig calls for the immediate withdrawal of her red environmental counterpart Peter Pappelmüller. The Uralspolitiker Pappelmüller – I believe he is 55 or 56 years old – "so Glavisch, be "an industrial lobbyist of the worst sort"..." Dear Eva Glavischnig! [[Call the ÖVP: Has already happened!]] We have always had a very, very constructive climate in the Committee on the Environment. We have worked very much together, mostly four-party proposals decided. I believe that we have made an excellent anti-atomic policy – despite similar statements made by Mr Langthaler a few years ago, Peter Doppelmüller also referred to. – I would just like to say: Please leave this, let's stick to the constructive style! Bring you in objectively – and let us work the members of the Environment Committee as has been the case so far! I'm sorry that colleague Doppelmüller is no longer present. I am sorry that Mr Kummerer, who is an excellent air recontent expert and chemist, is no longer working in the Environment Committee. And I am also sorry for Otmar Brix, who is an excellent environmental politician. I am already eager to see who will send the SPÖ to the Environment Committee, which experts will join the Environment Committee with Mr Sima. I am curious whether there will be only nearly as much qualification as there has been for the new environmental speakers in advance. – In any case, the former members have proved that they can do something. You've got advanced ladyberries, and I hope you'll be worthy of them. But I am convinced that at least in one area or another, it will succeed in working again objectively and constructively. Mr Van der Bellen has said in his typical way, always "competently smiling", that environmental policy has not taken place. – Mr Glawischnig, in environmental policy, a lot has already been done in the last 100 days, and above all, a lot has been prepared. First of all, I was presented with an ambitious government programme, with important projects in the areas of climate protection, ecologicalisation of the tax system – which is certainly included – waste management, water protection, renewable energy sources and so on. And of that has already been very, very much laid on the right tracks in the last 100 days. The first drafts have already been sent to you, and we will be next week, at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on 23. In May, we have a very long agenda to discuss with the new SPÖ experts. I hope these can replace the old experts. It is therefore very, very much in motion, also much of what the retired government has left unsolved. For example, the EIA bill was completed. I think it is a modern law and represents a viable balance between the environment and the economy. Environmental protection and economic policy must no longer be opposites, Mr Glavischig! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You always play them against each other!]] That's the wrong approach! Always fighting the economy, as the green fundamentalists have done here so far, is the wrong approach! [[New call to the Greens.]] Environmental policy creates jobs, workers make environmental policy – this is what it is about today! I hope you'll understand that now. We can show, by means of this bill, that we have understood this and will also bring it into law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Mr Stoisits! Investment procedures are streamlined and concentrated in the interests of Austria's economic location. In the end, there will be a uniform system law, a process concentration will come – all that your colleague Langthaler has called for. This will not only save a lot of time, but also money that they can then use elsewhere in the administrative ways. I believe that this is a very reasonable environmental policy. Yesterday we completed the draft on biocidal product law – that will have been sent to you. So another point you can cut off. We cut off the AWG-Novelle yesterday, so to speak, which will also be sent to you. The third point that was completed. However, it is also necessary to consider a reorganisation of the packaging regulation. And since, my colleague, Mr Glavischnig, I must say to the Minister: There is a need for action in this regard. At the moment, the packaging regulation brings great benefits to the In-Transport-Bringers, that the drivers still have the freedom to fool, that the recyclers get too much money and that consumers are asked to cash out twice: because they already pay the disposal fee when buying the product – and then, because they can no longer dispose of the industry-recyclers, they have to pay for disposal once again. However, this is not the point of the matter; it therefore also ends up with a lot of raw material on the waste. So there was, as has been said, a need for action. Mr Glavischnig! Preliminary talks with Minister Molterer have shown that he is willing to do something on this issue, for example, because he is also concerned about the fate of the "Roman Source" filler and we do not want such approaches to be broken. This filler should continue to be competitive because it has acted environmentally consciously. And that is why there will also be a reorganisation of the packaging regulation in this direction. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Next point – we continue to report; Mr Glavischnig, listen to me! –: the national climate strategy is in preparation. If the Minister's presentation comes, you'll be involved immediately. You can really get involved in the development of a national climate strategy anywhere in time. We want to achieve the 13 percent reduction target with very, very many national measures – in this case we will certainly also play a role in ecologizing the tax system. In this context, there will certainly be the important principles of cost-truth, incentive systems, ecologicalisation of the tax system. No question! Mr Molterer must show something in the near future. So we'll do this. In the next few weeks and months, this must happen. There will be comprehensive support strategies that will be effective in this direction. Mr Kopf has already referred to it: It is only now that 161 million Schilling for environmental projects have been approved, to the full benefit of climate protection. And finally, the anti-CFC policy, which continues with high-pressure. In Pressburg we will have talks about Bohunice and Mochovce. Mr Moser took part in the visit of the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to Prague when it came to the Temelin nuclear power station. I think we've had a very good conversation there. – Mr Moser, it will probably be on 14 May. In June, a delegation from Prague will come to our house and we will continue the talks with Temelin. There is also much being done; You just need to know about it. – Mr Van der Bellen knows that environmental policy has been achieved so far – and that environmental policy will continue to be made very, very serious and successful in the future. The Greens and the new Reds in this area are cordially invited to participate constructively in the very ambitious environmental policy of this black and blue government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3095	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3117	Mr President. High house! Mrs Glavischnig, if you are already in the football language, then you will probably also know that a football game is always made up of two halves and a game is always over after the finish. Unfortunately, the Austrian national team has sometimes felt dramatic. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is the way the Greens do, start farming in the first half, and go into an equal second half with the subject of the environment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] - About ten minutes, Mrs. Deputies. At any rate, I needed nine minutes and 30 seconds for agriculture; I measured it exactly. The objective of this Federal Government's environmental policy is sustainable development, and I believe that we need to think much more about sustainability in far-reaching areas than has been done so far. I believe that the principle of sustainability should be applied not only in environmental policy but in all policy areas. I also understand sustainability in the sense of how Brundtland has discussed this, namely to lead our lives in such a way that we do not narrow the possibilities of the coming generations. This is a high and responsible asset, which, as has been said, applies from the debate on pensions to environmental protection. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we can develop further in an international debate, because this national and international sustainability and environmental debate is what I think is important: We must use the forces of the market, but at the same time we must give the market two political frameworks: a socially responsible and an ecologically acceptable framework. I also understand the environmental policy that I want to shape it on these three pillars: To pool the forces of the economy in such a way that they are ultimately subordinate to the social policy framework – and in this context an ecologically acceptable framework. Ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to hold such a debate, especially with the many environmental movements, we need to deal even more with the issue of efficiency than before. I think it is important to keep checking our actions for both ecological and economic efficiency. Environmental policy, including environmental measures, should also be reviewed for this efficiency criterion. And it is precisely in this sense that the ambitious government programme in environmental policy has already shown success in environmental policy – that is to say, ladies and gentlemen, especially Mrs Glawischnig. Austria is a driver of developments in many areas, but in many areas there is still a need for effort. But please don't make us worse than we are. This budget, which sees, for example, the necessary framework in the urban water sector, which provides the budgetary framework in the waste management sector, in the field of operational environmental promotion, including in the national parks, shows that we have taken this policy seriously and have just equipped it with the necessary framework conditions. Mrs Glavischnig, there are, of course, test cases. ==References== May, meeting of the Environment Committee – Mr Schweitzer has already mentioned this – will thus be a test case for constructive environmental policy. Many legal projects will be available for decision; others are in preparation. And so I'm looking for and offering constructive cooperation. On the topic of species conservation. We work with the WWF on the joint project "Let them live", as we have, for example, also developed the joint project "Living rivers". On the subject of nuclear policy, I can only say that this federal government is building on the anti-Atom Pact, which the parliamentarians have unanimously decided on. You know very well – that is why I am very clear to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I cannot take note of this as you have said! . So you know very well that the Republic of Austria has made very clear what we are thinking about the EIA process, the TEC Temelin nuclear power station, on the basis of a decision by the Czech Government. With Miloš Kuzvart, I have agreed in New York that we will comment on all other EIA procedures in the same way – and even have a wider public debate. I have required this hearing to take place on Austrian soil; until now, however, I have not received an answer. I am therefore saying: Let us not put artificial collapsing mushrooms into the question of nuclear policy. In my view, this is a national concern that will ultimately be a cross-party enforcement. Because only then can it be crowned of success. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the Freeman as well as the Abg. Brix.]] At least I don't think much of it when driving in capitals and being said there: And that's still missing, and that's still missing! Other political examples show where it leads when we speak with separate tongues, so to speak. In nuclear policy too, we should speak with a tongue, and that is what I call for from all those involved in this question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On climate protection, Mrs Glawischnig: As you know, we are working intensively to ensure that a Council of Ministers' presentation is presented in good time, just before the summer. Of course, I will have a wide-ranging discussion of this concept by the Federal Government, of course also with Parliament, because it is a common task for all parties involved to take action together on this issue. On the matter of waste management: The Waste Management Act is being evaluated, it needs to be revised – also with regard to the issue of related regulations. As well as you, Mrs Glavischnig, I am deeply concerned about the development of the single market. Therefore, we are currently examining the possibilities we have, because I don't... – I emphasize this, please, be careful! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] I have noticed that it is important for you to pay attention to every word; by the way, I also pay attention to it. So we are not only concerned, but we are also currently examining the possibilities we have. You know just as much as I do what the cause is: On the one hand, the cause is in a very comfortable way, because there are obviously more and more people who are turning away from the glass bottle, so to speak, because it is easier to handle PET bottles – but on the other hand, the reason is that the food trade is putting cost pressure on the manufacturers, who say that one may go away from multiple-way bonds – whether glass or PET – just to get rid of them. And I think that's wrong! That is why I hope that we will find the right approaches, because I believe that, in the sense of sustainability, it is ultimately essential to have a multi-way link. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3252	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3273	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer, it is of course not that our new environmental spokesperson Sima would not trust himself to speak, just: We are in keeping with agreements. And it was stated that the budget chapter for agriculture is being dealt with first – and the area of the environment comes up a little later, that is, as the second block. I would also like to say to you, Mr Schweitzer: Do not worry about social-democratic personnel policy – although You were also affected by something like this once, because there are very few here in the hall who have learned on television that you are no longer Secretary General. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That was the cap! I wasn't a Secretary General!]] One day you were, because in a "press hour" the "leader" told you that you were no longer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I was never Secretary General! What are you talking about?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] - Oh, yes, for 24 hours! Skill Don't you remember? Don't worry! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to return to the issue of agriculture. – I am actually very pleased that this debate will become a little more emotional than it did before. I also note that several colleagues, above all from the right half of the empire, have used gentle tones, and I am particularly surprised that this time colleague Aumayr, Mr Molterer, wished for a "happy hand". [[Abg. Aumayr: What's wrong with that?]] One has felt myrrh and incense right here, because, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals, the times have changed. However, it has not been that long since you wished Mr Molterer to do something completely different than a "happy hand", Mrs Aumayr. Ladies and gentlemen! If we can believe the various press releases, there will be a strong increase in income this year in agriculture. There will be a strong increase in income, as Wifo's agricultural expert Matthias Schneider predicted, an increase of between 5 and 6 percent. What is the result of this increase? There are around 900 million Schilling more subsidies from Brussels, and the Novelle VAT Act saves the farmers around 1 billion Schilling on taxes. So, I think, it's going to be a good year for our farmers: 900 million schilling more subsidies, 1 billion tax deposit. In principle, I can say one thing: It is fair and important that incomes in agriculture also rise, but with the second point, namely the tax gift of 1 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen, I have a small problem, because this tax gift to the extent of 1 billion must be financed by anyone. This is the accusation I'm making quite open to you here. Also through the entire budget chapter of agriculture, there is a much-quoted redistribution from the bottom to the top – and I am still not talking about those measures that are likely to be strongly redistributed at the next budget once again, when I think about the increase in public funds by 1 billion or about the 900 million gift from the agricultural diesel, which you will probably find out from the media.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3366	I call Mr Wimmer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3381	These sums have to be raised, and I'll tell you who's bringing these sums up. It's the workers, it's the pensioners, it's the private households – when I think of the energy tax – it's the drivers and the commuters, and it's the sick in our country. That, ladies and gentlemen, is unfair and unfair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not fair and it is not fair if you take something away from a population group so that you can give something to another population. That's not fair. But this is your policy that we are fighting vehemently and will not carry along. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] This injustice, which you are responsible for, can also be felt within the agricultural holdings if, for example, a crop crop is worth three-and-a-half times in comparison to the mining industry and this income is to be subsidized 83 percent from public funds. We have an average income of 214 000 s per year for the miners, and we have an average income of 512 000 s per year for the crop production plants. Mrs. Aumayr! Because you say you can't hear this topic anymore: Workers in industry have an income of 250 000 S. We see exactly where these subsidies are going, namely to large businesses, and therefore this support system must be rejected, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In his last speech, the Federal Minister said that land promotions were smart. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: An environmental programme, Mr Colleague!]] There are also injustices, because if you promote square metres, the large farms get even more, we know exactly that. [[Abg. Aumayr: Why? Explain this once, Mr Wimmer.]] Because you spoke of this justice: A support system cannot be fair if there is a farm in Lower Austria that funds 22.5 million schilling a year on subsidies. 22,5 million schilling – a single operation! Another company receives 13.9 million schilling. Is it really that fair, ladies and gentlemen? Is this really fair to those farmers in the group between 2 and 9 hectares? Ladies and gentlemen! I think your support system is unfair, and that reflects the figures very clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not see in your approaches any future concept of organic farming at all. There is a great danger that the pioneering role of our organic farmers in Europe will be abandoned. In reality, there is no clear commitment to the use of genetic engineering. There is no commitment to the prohibition of feeding antibiotics, and there is no commitment to a common federal animal protection. Its policy, which supports the large farms, will continue and speed up the process of farm mortality. Small businesses will have no chance at all in this unjust funding policy and will not be able to survive. These are the reasons why we do not support and reject your agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3459	Mr Schweitzer spoke in favour of an actual correction. He knows the GO rules. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3484	Mr President. Obviously, you should have overlooked the fact that Mr Wimmer found out that I was serving under a leader. – This is the untruth – and that would be worth a call for order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: "That would be a possibility," Mrs. Mertel!]] Instead, I worked with the most successful party observer in the Second Republic. - First corrective position. Zum Secondly, Mr Wimmer claimed that I had heard about my secondment via television as Secretary-General. – I could never be deposed as Secretary-General, since I was never Secretary-General, Mr Wimmer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3541	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3577	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If the speech of the first speaker of the SPÖ is to be found today, which expressed her disappointment at the fact that too little would be done for small and secondary farmers, if Mr Otmar Brix's colleague, in his own case, is aware of the fact that the Federal Minister had worked well so far, but with the new budget there is almost nothing left of the rest, as was done in previous common times, and if some other statements are made, press releases and the like, in those of big farmers, of economic operators and of the poor who have to pay all of this, the talk is the one that has the goal of fueling the envy complex, I wonder: What's going on, huh? Ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Class fight!]] Class fight! That is obviously what has been preached, written and practiced by this site for a few months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Also asked in this direction: What's a "great" farmer? What is big and what is small, Mr Brix? [[Abg. Brix: A little one is a Simmeringer acquirer!]] Especially you, who come from the surrounding area and who are very positive with Wiener Gärtningbetrieben and so on, need to know that it is a difference whether I manage 10 hectares of gardening, vegetable production or whatever, whether I have 10 hectares of cereals or whether I am an alpine farmer with 20 hectares. What's big and what's small? Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, there is a little lack of practice. I can see this with all the clarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Recently I heard from SPÖ-side, big would be a farmer with 100 000 m2. [[Abg. Böhacker: What?]] A farmer with 100 000 m2 would be a "large" farmer! A building plot would have 1 000 m2, and anyone who owns it a hundred times would be a big farmer. [[Abg. May. Who was that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! But then there are colleagues – as fair as you should be – who think that from 20 acres you are a big farmer. Do you know what your SPD-College Funke, a quite successful minister – he does not represent my political attitude – means what a family business would be? 400 hectares, this is a farm in his family, ladies and gentlemen! – To let you know what's big and what's small! [[Abg. May. Who was that? Names!]] [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is because it is especially worthwhile for the budget chapter on agriculture to deal with this issue. High house! We know that the agricultural budget also has to contribute to general budget consolidation and that some of the measures we would have liked to put in the first 100 days to be postponed for one year. But I would always have liked every government to have implemented in the first year such a great deal for agriculture, which was put on the table here on plans, on objectives by the Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: I understand this because you can't say anything else!]] Everyone announces in Sunday's speeches: Agriculture must and should be competitive and remain competitive. Many announce that the quality is the most important and one would turn to quality. Only when shopping, things look different, much different! Therefore, we are all called upon to point out that Austrian farmers are careful and sustainable and do not need an international comparison in terms of quality and sustainability. It is, of course, expected that the Austrian farmer will, as it were, produce on EU terms and conditions. Buyers do not take into account Austrian circumstances, but are unmistakable where they otherwise shop. The consumer demands strict and without exception Austrian quality – for which we are grateful – but would like to be very moderate in payment. And some of the trade chains you do are others. If today a litre of best drinking milk in the wholesale market costs 6.90 S, then the sluice price policy is. This has nothing more to do with strategies. There would be to think whether it really helps someone that a litre of milk of best quality must be swallowed by 6.90 s in order to serve almost as a curly. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Zweytick as well as the representatives of the Freemans.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: This is just a lock bird offer!]] Does it really help someone if 1 kilo of dog or cat feed in wholesale markets is much more expensive than best Austrian quality meat? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Or a Hendl at 19 S!]] Or a hendl around 19 p. It could help all consumers to help the Austrian farmers. The Austrian farmer will face the challenges of the future. We will vote in favour of this budget, and we are convinced that the successful agricultural policy of our Federal Minister Molterer, whom you all praised last year – and we have no reason to go about it – will continue to have a positive impact on farmers in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3760	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3782	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Auer, excellent rhetorical performance, hat off, really, only one thing I would have liked to know – until a few months ago, in such situations, if anything did not work entirely in the sense of the EIA agricultural policy, the finance minister of the one who prevented and was guilty of it –: [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Zweytick]] Did I really understand that you meant now, now it would be the consumer who is responsible for the fact that certain things in agriculture do not work as the ÖVP agricultural group might imagine? [[Abg. Auer: I didn't claim! I called the consumer to help us!]] If so, as a few years ago, as a freshly baked agricultural speaker here at the speaker's desk, I offer to: There is a consumer, a real blood user and, as you can see, one who really consumes with pleasure and uses the very enthusiastic Austrian products – and preferably from the organic farm in the area, Mrs. Aumayr. [[Abg. Aure: Very good! A steiric!]] Dear colleague Auer! I know that there are very many, really very many who consume as much as I do, who consume as much as I do. [[Abg. Auer: But Otmar is much smaller than you!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – Well, Mr Brix has already had a few months of experience. That means maybe he probes even more precisely than I've done so before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words to my previous speakers. Mr President, Mr Schwarzenberger! I can congratulate you – excuse me if I interrupt your conversation now: The mayor party ÖVP has been given a new mayor over the last few days. I really think it is admirable that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany will continue to pursue and make a strong contribution to the financial compensation policy in the future. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zweytick.]] The applause is due to Lord Mayor Schwarzenberger. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The country has to live! We feel responsible for rural areas!]] Only one colleague, Mr Schwarzenberger, seems to me to be a little surprised, namely that this is happening at a time when in Brussels it is supposed to be the decision-making phase for the rural development programme. Is it possible to conclude now that the rural development programme was perhaps not quite as feasible as it was proposed by your side, and that we now have to pursue a drop-off strategy in good time that we can implement what is not possible by means of the financial compensation? We'll see. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, I can calm you down, that will not happen!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Over the last few months, both in the Committee on Agriculture and in the Committee on Budgets, we have tried to find out about you and the Federal Minister for Agriculture the final state of affairs, as we stand in Brussels with the rural development programme. Until today, we have not received this information that we require. Federal Minister! We have worked well together in recent years, we have learned one another, we have shown respect, and we will continue to do so in the future, but if you want to have constructive opposition policy from us, then I really want to ask you – today for a time, also from this point of view – and that is my offer: Join us and give us the opportunity to cooperate constructively! But let's stand somewhere in the back Winkerl and refuse the information, then don't complain if we make the opposition role a little more violent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's say it again. Join us! My handiwork is still upright. Mrs Aumayr! I'm really going to and fro, torn off by the tongues you've been talking to today about this speaker's mouth. It was really refreshing, and I really wish the married couple Aumayr/Molter all the best in the future. [[Abg. Aumayr: Would fit together well, gal?]] I also offer you that we work together for Austrian agriculture. If Mr Schwarzenberger mentioned earlier that the rural area and the settlement of our mountain valleys were important, I would give him the right to do so. The settlement of our mountain valleys is absolutely important. But, Mr Schwarzenberger, if, on the one hand, there is funding for a few farms, as Mr Wimmer mentioned earlier, in the amount of 20 million, 13.9 million schilling and on the other hand, there are exactly in these mountain valleys farms, family farms that have to come out with 15 000, 20 000, 30 000 S annual funding, then you have to explain to me where the justice is, where the social distribution is. I can't see her. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our first speaker, Mrs Bauerals, has today assumed that the labour force belongs as a fact and as a measure of distribution of funding. Mr Schwarzenberger! If you look through this and calculate it correctly, you will see that precisely in these mountain valleys, where you fear a depopulation, with this way of promoting the local population could live, so that it would not depend on alms or otherwise, but it could live on its productivity which it can achieve. [[Abg. Zweytick: These are not alms!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's why a base amount and the compensation allowance!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! The repeated demand on our part has once again been made: The most important criterion should be labour force and labour input at the farm, and the distribution will become much more just. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! They have addressed the social compensation in the context of the financial compensatory negotiations to the classified population key. We would have had the opportunity, together, to create this social compensation in recent years, but They weren't ready to do that. They were not ready and have not implemented this with us. They didn't follow us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Federal Minister! You said in your reply to the agricultural chapter: Austria has provided impulses that have found rainfall in the EU. - You're right. I congratulated you from this point of view. But in the last few weeks and months, you have also stated that you are not prepared to use the opportunities you have achieved here in Austria as a driving force in the agenda negotiations – and which are now also included in the horizontal regulation on the agricultural agenda – in order to introduce ceilings to bring about increased support according to ecological criteria, in accordance with labour force conditions and labour force conditions. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I invite you, together with a constructive opposition, to work to improve social justice and to improve the agricultural situation in Austria. I invite you to work with us, because that is also the reason why we reject this budget, which we now have, is a blue-black thread that passes through the entire chapter of the budget: the distribution from bottom to top, an unfair distribution. That is why we must reject this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3978	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4000	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If one follows the agricultural debate closely, one must honestly also note that in general every single speaker and every individual speaker wants the best for the farmers. However, I would like to add the following: It is always criticized that there is a conflict situation in the class society between large and small farmers. I must therefore address the message to the side of the Social Democratic Party: You would have had enough time in your 30-year government responsibility to handle this. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... ÖVP! They slept!]] Unfortunately, I must also note that it is always true that the fighters have nothing to talk about for the small farmers in your party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] For example, in Carinthia, the fighter for small farmers, Hilde Schammerger, had to relinquish her chair with SPÖ farmers because the debt collection service Gusenbauer has come to Carinthia and the farmers suffer from it. That's a fact. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: The farmers suffer from it? That's strong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What was that?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you are talking about the environment and the farmers, thank God for not yet the sentence has fallen that the farmers are damaging or partially poisoning the water. [[Abg. That's enough if you say that now!]] I think that's positive. Another process has already taken place. Gentlemen! If there was an agricultural competition in the European Union with regard to the environmental performance of farmers, the Austrian farmers would certainly be the gold medal. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe, Minister of State, that we should not only talk about agriculture and the activities of the agricultural sector in Austria, but also about the EU Member States. Unfortunately, it must be noted that we are paying for the sins of the animal factories in the European Union. Farmers must find with increasing horror that the number of animal factories in the EU countries is increasing and the damage to this madness must be paid with their money. According to the official EU report, in 1997 and 1998 8 billion schillings had to be paid for the removal of the consequences of large-scale swine diseases. Of course, a "near" title was found for this: Market support and veterinary measures. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not ready to do this in the future. Of course, this is a sad chapter, Minister. Also, regarding the addition of sewage sludge and animal meal to animal feed, one can say: It's literally made of dirt to gold. The person who consumes the meat of these animals and eats this poison cocktail is probably not healthy. [[Abg. Float: 100 percent recycled!]] There is also the question of who sends observer posts and looks at where they are produced and worked and who actually breaks the prices. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian farmers were reviewed almost 90,000 times by the agricultural market Austria in 1999. That's good! It is also to be seen how precisely the use of the funds spent is controlled. I have asked my group to ask the Council to what extent the other EU Member States are carrying out national controls so that we can prove who sends observer posts and whether things are all about them. Ladies and gentlemen! In agriculture, of course, energy policy is also important in connection with environmental policy. I believe that alternative energies and biomass should also be used. Maybe a message from Carinthia: ==References== There are new feed-in tariffs for biogas generation from smaller plants in May. The prices were increased from 74 sizes per kilowatt hour to 1.3 s per kilowatt hour in the production of electricity and especially in the case of wood gas even from 62 sizes to at least 2.1 s. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I mean, that's a positive energy policy. This is an incentive for farmers to produce alternative products. They, of course, make an important contribution to our common good and our environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4132	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4154	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words to my previous speaker, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, who is showing coolness in person. He's not here. I just wanted to congratulate you. He has become Secretary General of the Economic Union. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not yet!]] – Not yet, but he is, of course, the "prototype" of a representative of the "little" people. I can already imagine that. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He also has a small business economy!]] Parliamentary Brix has been very committed to the Vienna gardeners; if the class struggle is, then the right should be to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have listened closely to the FPÖ members and the ÖVP and I have come to the conclusion that the new message among the coalition brothers and sisters is: Is the way also wrong and stingy, essentially we agree. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Brix.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, my dear FPÖ, also make the exact opposite of what you have promised your voters in agriculture and animal welfare – just the opposite, as in other areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I really have to correct that!]] I would also like to say a word about the statements made by Mr Pirklhuber. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why are you so angry with us?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Naughty!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Oh! Naughty!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] I would like to thank him for his contribution to the discussion, which really brings an expert opinion, and I would like to fully support it in terms of content. – You have to fight yourself very hard, this only as an intermediate remark. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would be particularly interested in the Danish organic farming action plan. This would be very beneficial for Austria, I believe, Mr Federal Minister. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We are number 1, as far as this is concerned!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] – I only have a short speaking time. Federal Minister! The budget is not the problem. They have already heard it from the previous speakers, problems are the focus and, of course, also the tax gifts to large farmers. [[Abg. Zweytick: It's clear anyway!]] The direct consequence of your agricultural and support policy is that more and more animals are being kept in increasingly fewer farms. You know that. For example, pigs: There are now 2 000 holdings, each holding more than 400 pigs. Four years ago, it was only about 1 300 farms. [[Abg. Haigermoser:... your consumer protection! Because you always say it all has to be cheaper! The AK is to blame!]] In total, there are 23 percent fewer pig farmers. What this has to do with the consequences is quite clear: more mass animal husbandry and less animal welfare in agriculture. And you are no longer for the Federal Animal Protection Act, dear FPÖ! Mr Haigermoser, listen to me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] We from SPÖ have long called for the animal justice index for the position of farm animals. This would mean animals kept in animal health, satisfied consumers and farmers who would also have a marketing advantage. [[Abg. Zweytick: But for the pets too!]] – Also for the pets, no question at all. You'll probably be special to the pets, for your cats. [[Abg. Zweytick: Very!]] - Yes, I already know you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! We need organic farming in Austria. I would like to give you three answers to why, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's also interested in the grapes!]] The organic farmers are those who, to a large extent, keep the waters and the soils clean. This is a very important area in this debate today. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And the stable!]] - And maybe the stable. They keep their livestock fair because they keep the stable clean. They are image carriers for Austrian agriculture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Deputies! They have previously highlighted the high-quality products. Who produces these? The organic farmers! And the big farmers also benefit from it. That is, we must not lose these image carriers, we cannot afford to do that either. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There are no large farmers in Austria according to EU rules!]] Mr Aumayr has already said a lot to my previous speaker. I think the FPÖ is no longer different from the EIA and suffers, as in many other areas, from a collective memory loss. My comment on this: The backbone is just a long, moving bone, dear FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I've listened to you very carefully. They said that the bio-agricultural sector was the top of a uniform development and that the base amount was also realized. I hope that's not a lip confession. We distrust the ÖVP because we know it. And, of course, you're part of the ÖVP. The red light is already shining. I'll finish. Federal Minister! I'm sure you'll be home from the side of the big farmers, Lorbes, but remember: Lorberries are a fast-growing vegetables.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4439	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4460	Mr President. Mr Molterer, Minister of State! Appreciate Members of Parliament! I'm making a confession in the first place: I am a small farmer with a reason of 30 hectares and thank you for the commitment of my colleague Brix to represent me so actively. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I'm making another confession: I am also mayor of a small community and will lose a few words. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] When it comes to talking about sizes, I am willing to exchange a vegetable farm of ten hectares in Vienna against mine, then I would have an increase of 1 : 100. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix]] I'd like to do this business. But I mean, I'm not going to get this offer. If you are talking about income and gifts to the big farmers, I suggest: Why don't you start with yourself? [[Abg. I'm not a big farmer!]] I know in the list a single large farmer, who can easily be reached on foot from here. It's Mayor Häupl. The city of Vienna has 1,700 hectares of arable land and 40,000 hectares of forest. Take the first step! Show us you're serious! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! For the redistribution from bottom to top, the following is to be said: It is a legitimate requirement of the communities in the small structure, the rural communities, that they demand justice. We don't want a preference, we just want justice. This is about 5 billion schillings a year, which will keep small communities away from them. We do not even call for a reversal of the current situation, but for equality. This is highly legitimate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! With the reform of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and the former Ministry of Youth, Family and the Environment, the new Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management was established. The fact that the health of our fundamental livelihoods – pure water, healthy soil, good air – is an important concern for farmers is demonstrated by the fact that 90 percent of all agricultural land has been incorporated into the Austrian Programme for Environmental Agriculture (ÖPUL). It is also remarkable that our home country Austria is managed by 20,000 organic farmers – in comparison: The EU as a whole cannot have a higher value! This clearly and clearly demonstrates the principle philosophy represented by our Minister for Agriculture Molterer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For agriculture and forestry, the path to the future is marked. It is about ensuring the sustainable livelihoods of agricultural holdings and the social mission not only to produce high-quality food but also to ensure the sustainable protection of environmental resources. Of the three resources, soil, water and air, at least two, namely soil and water, are managed directly by the farmers. The agriculture and forestry lives on healthy, fertile soils and clean water. That is why we will also be careful to deal with it. But also healthy air is inseparably linked to agriculture and forestry. If we are concerned about improving air quality, then the consistent expansion and use of renewable energy sources – such as wood, bark and so on – does not go by any way. Years ago, in the course of a referendum, the citizens of our home country of Austria expressed their opposition to energy production by means of nuclear energy. This decision has led to Zwentendorf becoming the most economic nuclear power plant in the world in the long term, as well as the most expensive reminder against nuclear energy. As a result of the disaster committed in Chernobyl by the explosion of the nuclear power plant there, we were told that energy production on an atomic basis is totally irresponsible. Those who face the resulting damage to individuals, families and the economy must realize that there is no way for nuclear energy in our Europe. A daily newspaper, namely the "Kronen Zeitung", today states that Austria has spent 1 billion schilling on aid from private and also from public funds after the disaster of Chernobyl. If anyone claims that nuclear power is cheap, it teaches a better person. The only alternative to this is the consistent use of biomass in the future. In Austria, 28 000 large and smaller district heating plants are already operating, providing a heat production of 2 668 megawatts. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Are you doing this in your community?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] – Yes, we do it, we do it exemplaryly and have even received a Greenpeace climate protection price for it. We have received various international environmental prices for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to invite you to look at this on-site, because this is the only right way to achieve environmental, agricultural and social policy measures for the future. [[Abg. Zweytick: You have to know that, you bastard!]] You have to know. I would like to show you this, colleague. What matters, however, Mr Schwamlein – you are cordially invited to do so – is a broad consensus to create the legal framework for these future technologies, and these must be created in this House. A good example can be found in my neighboring village Dobersberg, where a sawmill builds wood-solar houses for which the insulating materials come from renewable raw materials, namely flax from our fields. This product will be exhibited at the Expo in Germany – an example of a combination of agriculture, forestry and environmental protection. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4574	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4596	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! No matter what speech: whether from a speaker of the coalition parties or from a speaker of the opposition parties, it is to be concluded: The agricultural policy, which is being made in Austria, is policy for large farmers. And this is a pity, because the Federal Minister and many of his colleagues here in the House have repeatedly emphasized in recent years: We want to maintain the small peasant structure in Austria, which is enormously important! – But make politics They are not for small farmers, but for large farmers, and this is sad, Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A proof that policy is being made for large farmers has once been torn short – I underline this –: the structural evaluation. We know from the statistics that the number of animal owners is getting smaller but that those who keep animals keep more and more animals. In other words, there is also the trend towards Austria: The little one is no longer viable, so the area has to grow, the number of horns is increasing; this is in the foreground. This is proof of what has always been said by us in the past. Heinz Gradwelt has worked it out very well several times: The promotion has an absolute flaw. It belongs to a social phase through which the little one is viable. That's the turn and go. [[Abg. Zweytick: New social assistance recipients with a seasoning!]] Minister! We ask you to: Show social conscience and make such a policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! They have also said several times in the past – and I can say that quite clearly –: Farmers should strive to put their incomes on several feet. I would therefore be interested, Mr Federal Minister, how you deal with the development of holidays at the farm. The statistics of recent years show a dramatic decline in the number of nights spent on farm holidays. It is, however, an essential and important pillar for securing agricultural incomes. This pillar seems to break away. I therefore ask you: What do you intend to do? The majority of farms offering farm holidays are small farms. I thought it was a good sign, a beautiful gesture on your part, if you were to try to get these small businesses among the poor, so that they are viable, because these are those companies that put an honest product on the market, and not the great ones who essentially produce food that nobody wants under the line. [[Abg. Zweytick: Make the best vacation there!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Where are you going, Mr. Schwemmlein?]] Dear colleague Zweytick! That's fact. Look at the numbers! It doesn't make sense to discuss it with you, we agree: We need different pillars to ensure income security, and if the tourist part breaks away, a very important part of income is missing. Therefore, you have to do something about it – this is a very important point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: But you can do something for it!]] Since a mayor has provided a positive example of what he does in his community – Mr Hornek, I think it is good that you should highlight the ecological importance in the energy sector – I also say to you: My community was one of the first communities to set up a hacking heat plant, because we thought it was useful and because we believed the arguments, namely: Builds a chopping plant, sees that many households are connected, because this is also a stand for our farmers, who can then deliver their chopping pieces, and in this way they have an additional income. It's crazy. For years I went to the hacking heat plant, looked at the necks and thought to myself: For God's sake, what hacks do they?- Oh, my God! Huge pieces of chipboard – I don't know what kind of tree it is, bring the pressed chipboards as a hacking result. Under the rule: Not a single farmer from my home community is a supplier of this hacking heat plant. And this is sad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] The basic approach to doing such a work and the basic approach to giving farmers an additional income is present, but what has been made out of it is exactly the wrong one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: The wood has to come somewhere!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen – because the Minutes are supposed to say the right thing –: Mr Schweitzer has joined the speaker's desk and has actually corrected the fact that he was not the Secretary-General or the Federal Managing Director of his party. [[Abg. Aumayr: "Secretary General" you said!]] It's Wurst, as the child's name is. [[Abg. Aumayr: No, it's not meat!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: With you it's sausage!]] I suppose you know what this is: an extract, the "tribal leaf" – under quotation marks – of Mr Schweitzer. It says clearly and clearly: Federal Managing Director of FPÖ 1996. [[Abg. Aumayr: "Chairman", but not "Secretary General"! You don't even know the difference between "Secretary-General" and "Secretary-General"! This is a witness of poverty, Mr. Schwemlein! Best of all, you sit down!]] So, he did this activity. This was probably the last year in which Mr Schweitzer worked a little bit, because he has also been withdrawn from this function. [[Abg. Dolinschek: It is a difference: General Secretary or Managing Director!]] It should therefore not make actual corrections which actually state the opposite of what is going on.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4786	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4807	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwemlein, I think it is necessary to explain to you the difference between a Federal Managing Director and a Secretary-General, because that will anyway have no meaning for you. [[Abg. Son of a bitch: Do it! What's the difference?]] This is similar to the term "big farmer". Minister! Despite the disastrous SPÖ financial policy over the last 30 years, I believe that this Federal Government has succeeded in establishing, together with Minister of Finance Grasser and you, a forward-looking and, above all, relatively positive budget for farmers. Minister! I give you the right if you think that in Austria it is necessary to focus on organic and therefore sustainable agriculture. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] But I believe, Minister, that we agree when I say that sustainable and ecological agriculture is only possible if the future of farmers and the continuation of farms in our country are assured. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that this budget, in which the funds were secured under the ÖPUL programme for farmers, has been taken a step in the right direction and the possibility of ensuring sustainability in the field of agriculture in the future. My dear friends of the Social Democratic Party! Mr Brix! Mr. Schwamlein! [[Abg. Swimmling: Save me your friendship!]] Class struggle, distribution struggle: This must not in any way be at the expense of ecologically oriented Austrian agriculture. You can believe this: It must not come that far and it will not come! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Brix and Mr Schwamlein. I do not know any large farmers in this country, for example, who owns a penthouse with a swimming pool over the roofs of Vienna, such as the so-called employee representative, Mr Verzetnitsch. I don't know such a big farmer in Austria. That's why you should take care of yourself! These are your party colleagues. I also don't know a political millionaire like Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger – Polit-Millionary and Pension Millionary! – which can be covered by its private process costs by the small Austrian taxpayers. [[Abg. Swimming: Haider!]] There is no such thing on the farm side throughout Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] My friends and colleagues from Social Democracy! I also don't know any politic millionaires and chamber of labor on the agricultural side! There's no such thing! And these Chamber of Workers and Chamber of Workers millionaires are paid with the tax money of small workers! There you should look at it and clean it up once! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Haider!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] My reigns! If I look at your financial policy over the last three decades and also your financial policy within your own party, within the Social Democratic Party, then I can only say: Everything's actually running parallel. – They send bet letters to the small members who are supposed to pay for the damage done by the Bones and the Polit Millionaires. The small workers and the small SPÖ members are supposed to be liable for this! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Is it about agriculture, or what is it about?]] My dear friends! Again: Forget the class fight! Let us make a proper policy for Austrian agriculture here, because we need such a policy, this is what our farmers need, and I am convinced that this federal government will ensure that the peasantry in Austria is secured in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you suffering from hypnosis?]] I know, ladies and gentlemen from the Social Democratic Party, there is a lot of unrest in your own ranks. No wonder! What do you believe, what kind of uprising of your members will come only if each one of them receives a bet letter asking him to pay, while the millionaires in your own party are excluded from doing so instead of causing harm. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Yes, Mr. Kummerer, you double earner – OMV millionaire, political millionaire – these are the things you have to worry about. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] You could bear the party debts much easier than a small employee in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5006	What my colleague, Mr Fassleven, said half an hour ago to the left, is also true of the right in this House. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Gaßner. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5042	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would just like to refer to the statements made by my previous speaker in that I cannot imagine that he says to me "love friends". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the "Economic Sheet" this week – I think it was on Monday; and you have confirmed it, Federal Minister – I was able to read that the "ÖPUL 2000" had not yet been approved. I would remind myself of our debate on the water report, on which you, Federal Minister, told us that you would like to wait for the "ÖPUL 2000" - the "ÖPUL-neu" - in the field of groundwater rehabilitation areas and then try to actually clean up the groundwater areas. I conclude that, in any case, this year, the regulation on measures for groundwater restoration areas has been suspended. I also conclude that, for this year, citizens living in and from these groundwater areas continue to drink the burdened water, the nitrate- and pesticides-loaded water. I conclude, Federal Minister, that even during the next year those people who are supplied with water from these groundwater areas will again have to pay more for the water, because the water associations that water supply providers have to make huge investments to get nitrates out of the water to bring pesticides out of the water. But – and I do not trust to say it at all – those who are not quite "great", but also not "small" farmers in these areas, which are proven to be responsible for these pollutions, continue to fund public funding. Assuming the development of overloaded or heavily burdened groundwater: Whoever has made the effort to study the press releases of the last days is on the 15th. In May, a press release fell into the hands of the following heading: "Principal owners are working hard on commercial drinking water use – Austria's water policy on Tuesday theme in the Council of Ministers." If this press release has led to a great deal of contemplation, it has been found that there is talk of the "water castle Austria". It also speaks of the fact that in Austria there is still so much good drinking water that Europe could actually be supplied with it. – This is what Mr. Wolfgang Stalzer, head of the water industry at the Ministry. He is a defender of careful commercial use. I ask you now, Minister: Are we now going to make commercial use of our water supplies? It then goes on to say – this is extremely interesting! –: "The private property owners are whitenering rich additional income." Who are these private property owners? – Yes, I know, certainly not only the big farmers, but also some small farmers will be among them. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The private property owners!]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: Federal Forest!]] Among them, however, are huge forest properties of monasteries, the Federal Forests, the sovereign-graved forest properties. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: This is suspekt!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! Have you ever tried to negotiate with a monastery about source rights? The water association Mühlviertel has tried. The experts there don't even talk to one. You can buy the cubic meter of water there if you want. – This is a burden for those who need water, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] An old demand for social democracy, Mr. Federal Minister, is: Water must become public good! In Europe we are almost alone. [[In the meeting room you can hear the ringing of a cell phone.]] I think there are still one or two countries that...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5115	Deputies! I'll interrupt you for a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen! There are increasingly frequent cell phones here. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the use of mobile phones in the meeting room is prohibited, and I would also draw attention to the fact that the President-in-Office has explicitly stated that this should be clarified and, if necessary, made clear in plenary. I do not even look at who is the case now, I cannot see it at all, but some colleagues have complained about it. I would ask you to pay attention to this! Perhaps the newer colleagues don't know that very well. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: With us it costs 1000 S!]] 1 000 S? – Unfortunately, there is nothing about this in the house order, so I can only warn. – Ladies and gentlemen, please continue your remarks!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5142	Thank you, Mr President. – Perhaps we should also lift 1 000 s, but then every affected person would have to report. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Since then no one's been ringing with us!]] I come back to the sale of water, on its commercial use. There are some large European water companies that already have their foot in the door. And do you know how they do that? – They offer the municipalities supplies and disposals – and this is also read in a press release – by 30 to 40 percent cheaper than the municipalities can do. – After that I look at it, if this is not, so to speak, an entry-level drug: an offer to the communities, so that you can then sell the water from Austria. Unfortunately, my speaking time is already over. – It is certainly high time, ladies and gentlemen, to secure our "white gold", as it is so beautiful, and to explain the water to the public. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: To state!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5251	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5272	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Parfuss – unfortunately, she is not in the room at the moment, but perhaps she can direct it to the SPÖ colleagues –: Lorberry leaves are certainly not "swift greens", but dried an excellent spice – and can last for years. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Zweytick.]] Federal Minister! In this sense, you will still be able to hold up the flag of Austrian agriculture for years to come. [[Abg. Gradwell:... get a dry wreath!]] Now a brief comment to you, Mr Gaßner: You said the pens would sell the highest water and they would hardly be heard by them or they would not even talk to one. – I can tell you that the Stift Kremsmünster of the municipality of Scharnstein provides unlimited water and requires a recognition of 30 sizes for the cubic meter, as well as the Federal Forest of the Municipal Municipality of Gmunden. - So there are both. [[Abg. Swimmlein: I could tell you something else from Salzburg!]] I told you about my area, what it's like. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Now also a few words on the environment. "Make the bock a gardener": These words were used by both environmental spokesmen of the opposition parties in various press releases, in connection with the aggregation of the agendas of the environment and agriculture. There is no reasonable point of view as to why the merger of both ministries is a bad decision. From these similar press releases, I have to conclude that the independence of the speakers in the opposition parties is not very large, or I have to ask myself: Is there perhaps already a left-wing unit party in Austria? It takes more material arguments than just saying: The integration of the agendas of agriculture and the environment into the field of competence of a ministry is therefore not a target because agriculture is one of the biggest pollutions of the environment. – This kind of politics speaks for itself in the truest sense of the word and does not need to be commented on. By combining the areas of competence synergies are used as a positive – to the positive for our environment and to the positive for our future. These are mainly the areas of old loads, settlement water management and bioenergy examples of synergies. Environmental policy is largely done in the countryside – of course, a reasonable link to industry and industry is needed. Agriculture is properly positioned because of its nature in the environmental field and has a vital interest in uniting these competences within itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is by no means shortened by a place of business, it is not less, it is more efficient. "Not less, but more efficient" must also be the principle for our future in the field of climate protection. If one assumes that energy experts are using scenarios, then the oil stocks will be reduced in the middle of the next century and energy consumption will be despised over the next hundred years. There are possibilities to comply with our commitments under the Kyoto Agreement. These possibilities must also be used. It must be done with maximum ecological and economic efficiency. One is thinking only of combined heat and power or of the more than 50 percent of the energy input of large power plants, which disappear into rivers or into the atmosphere and are thus lost. Renewable energy sources also contribute significantly to the reduction of CO2 emissions. That is why I am glad that the focus of environmental promotion is clearly on CO2 reduction. In this budget 25 million Schillings are available for thermal building renovation, 60 million Schillings for the promotion of bio-energy and 250 million Schillings for operational environmental promotion. A concrete definition of the prevention effects of 167 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents in the country and 20 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents by promotion measures abroad is a sign of reasonable energy policy, environmental policy and sustainability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Our Environment Minister Mag. Molterer is very much in line with the principle: "Not less, but more efficient" – in the sense of sustainability! These are not – as is often claimed – empty statements of intent without concrete content. Although environmental organisations such as "Global 2000" see it this way – the SPÖ environmental spokesperson comes from this organisation – it must be said that the basic consensus is particularly important for environmental policy. We need to safeguard the environment in a sustainable way and ensure the high environmental standards in Austria. On this point, there is also a need for political unity and consensus. Austria must and will fulfil the commitments of the Kyoto Agreement. This requires the joint effort of all local authorities as well as the involvement of the economy and citizens. We all have to take the protection of our atmosphere seriously, and we must not impose into the coming generations unbearable burdens. It is we who now have a discharge to ensure that the system does not start tipping at a later date. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Global threats such as climate change need global solutions, but local – that is, local – needs to be dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen! Another global problem, which I am particularly concerned with as the Upper Austrian Member, is the use of nuclear power. When conflicts arise about the availability of oil, international studies suggest that nuclear power cannot close the gaps. We must therefore make every effort to show the world that environmental policy can also be nuclear-free. And Austria can be a model for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5356	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5377	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! – Oh, Mr Schweitzer, this is a good thing! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The new environmental speaker!]] I am now transferring agriculture to the environment for my group. You, honourable Member, have already expected my speech so impatiently, and I am pleased that you have now arrived here to listen to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing I would like to say to you from the outset: The fact that you are asking us for materiality really limits me to ridiculousness. I understand that you prefer to talk about the SPÖ staff change here at the speaker's desk rather than about the environmental policy of the new Federal Government, because it has not been available in the last 100 days as well as at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] This is what I have reached on my immediate subject, namely environmental policy. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The balance sheet was extensive and impressive!]] I've read your balance sheet. But most of the laws that are cited in them, we have not even been presented here in the National Council. And that's what you've done? Please, that's ridiculous! - Yes, today! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Today is a bit late, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Let me continue with my speech. – This federal government has not had time to deal with environmental protection. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The SPÖ did not do this for four years in the coalition!]] That's not a statement from me, but it's a quote from you, dear Mr. Khol, on Sunday evening in "On the Matter" said by you as a little bold excuse for the fact that, unfortunately, nothing has gone on in the last 100 days in the field of environmental policy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Previously we had to cut Edlinger's debt mountain down!]] No matter what the environment you consider [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And Schlögl his civil servants!]] One simply comes to the conclusion that, unfortunately, nothing has happened over the last 100 days. I had the impression, Minister of Agriculture Molterer, that your age ego, the Minister of the Environment, must have been on vacation in the last 100 days. They have appeared mainly as agriculture ministers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Selective perception!]] This is not a selective perception, unfortunately it is a sad fact. I would like to support this with a few examples. Ladies and gentlemen! The first example is anti-atomic policy. I'm just calling the Bohunice AKW, a borderline nuclear power station. Something should be done there a long time ago. Slovakia has indicated its willingness to negotiate early on close this nuclear power plant before 2006, 2008. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Dr. Prammer was already very successful!]] This willingness to negotiate has not been accepted by anyone here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Four years!]] This has been simply and simply slept by the Austrian Federal Government. Why have there been no bilateral negotiations so far? Mr Molterer would have had 100 days to go there and take care of it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And Prammer four years!]] Nothing happened. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What about Ignalina and Kosloduj, the two other so-called scrap reactors of the Easter enlargement candidate countries? Why is there no initiative from Austria at all – bilaterally or at EU level – to do anything? [[Abg. Aumayr: Why don't you ask your colleague Prammer?]] Mrs Aumayr, it is a bit too cheap to always push everything to its predecessors. [[Abg. Dr. Khol:... four years!]] You had 100 days to really get active here, and nothing happened. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Umweltminister! I ask you: When to Become You finally do something to take these ticking time bombs off the net? On the contrary: It is currently being imported from the Czech Republic into Austria, with the knowledge and approval of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. On the other hand, nothing is done by the new government either. No wonder these countries do not take us seriously at all when we take action against Temelin and at the same time import electricity from these countries into Austria! This is not environmental policy, as we imagine it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You were for the European Union...!]] Next example: climate protection. Before the next crucial climate change conference in The Hague in November, Austria stands empty-handed. We don't have a national action plan. We have not, as far as I know, a Climate Change Advisory Board – except as you have already set up activities that have missed my attention – and this, although Austria should already work at an EU position on a plan of action for important climate action in order to achieve the Kyoto objective. Nothing has happened in this area either, and the budget does not provide for funding of these important climate change measures. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not environmental policy, as we imagine it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Third example: Groundwater. Believe me, I could continue here for a while, just don't allow me time. – Groundwater: At 20 percent of groundwater measurement values, the nitrate limit is exceeded. One of the main causes of this excess of the nitrate limit is agriculture. Instead of finally becoming active, adopting water protection areas, adopting appropriate regulations and management restrictions on agriculture, nothing has gone further. In this area, I really think it is the most obvious contradiction between the Minister of Agriculture on the one hand and the Minister for the Environment on the other. Unfortunately, I have to say more and more: The Minister of Agriculture always wins! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: If you give more examples, you will be black and blue in front of your eyes!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] In addition, a European Union infringement procedure for non-compliance with the Nitrates Directive threatens us particularly in the nitrate sector. Finally, in the field of genetic engineering, the Federal Government must be granted: It has become active, unfortunately, in the wrong direction, namely by investing in a highly questionable release project of genetically modified marillas equal to 10 million schilling of public taxpayers, which will ultimately lead to the release of these genetically modified marillas – and that, although you, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Group, are certainly aware that the majority of the Austrian population is massively opposed to genetic engineering in food and in agriculture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Here I am with you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the balance sheet of this Federal Government in the environmental field is very disillusioning. Unfortunately, all our fears regarding the combination of the two agricultural sectors with the environment have been more than confirmed. Unfortunately, from the side of the Austrian People's Party, we are already accustomed to the fact that their environmental protection is not a particular concern. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: What did the SPÖ do? Nothing!]] But I find it amazing how quickly the liberals have adapted, as a group of governments have completely distanced themselves from all the environmental demands of the past and forgotten everything. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: What does the SPÖ have...!]] Keywords of genetic engineering, word patents: There were still demands from you and nope, but none of them can be found in your current government policy. There are also press releases by Mr Schweitzer, in which he announces any acts or praises any. But actually, only the opposite happens or nothing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: We're just putting this into practice! The topics will go out to you because we will implement them!]] – I’m sure I’ll never go out of your way of acting. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Social Democrats will certainly not allow you to give up the Austrian pioneering role in environmental protection simply because you have unfortunately not found time for environmental protection in the last 100 days. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl:... an unwritten leaf!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You don't have time either!]] I can only recommend – and you in particular, Mr Khol: Take your time and in the future, please take a closer look at environmental protection!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5811	The next speaker is Mr Hornegger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5832	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the budget and its impact, a brief communication to Mr Schwamlein. – Mr Schwamlein, if you are talking about holidays on the farm, I can only say one thing to you and your whole group: If you make more holidays on the farm, you can get in touch with the farmers, and then you can discuss in an agricultural debate! [[Abg. Sword: What does one have to do with the other? You don't even have a applause!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Schwamlein, one of the most famous interlocutors... – I would like to hear what Mr. Schwamlein would say as a teacher to a student who is in between as much as Mr. Teacher! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But also one of the worst!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5880	Deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5907	But now to the budget. – The Federal Government – that is what you see when you read the government programme – acknowledges itself in the sense of the objective of the Agricultural Law to a rurally structured agriculture and to a comprehensive agricultural and forestry management. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: What is a agriculturally structured agriculture? Can you do that...?]] That is what we still have in Austria, my colleague, is a farm-structured agriculture, which we no longer have in other EU countries. But this is what we will pay close attention to in this government so that businesses can continue to be run in a family way and will not become industrial enterprises, as Mr Pirklhuber says. It must be warned that something like this is happening in other EU countries. A pillar of the new rural development programme is the 2000 environmental programme, so that compensation for less favoured areas, mountain areas, investment support under the restrictive budget, from which agriculture too is not spared, is financed. The budget framework for 2000 is 23.5 billion schilling. This corresponds exactly to the budget framework of the previous year. Mr Pirklhuber complained here at the speaker's desk to the Minister that perhaps it could even be 25 billion schilling. Yes, as a farming representative, I have no problem with if it can be a little more. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: In the sense of budgetary clarity!]] As one hears from the SPÖ over and over again that the preference of agriculture is massively promoted, I must say: No, the opposite is the case! This year, just as in recent years, since we have been with the EU, farmers' incomes will be reduced. One of the honourable Members has today mentioned that there have been farmers who have only half of the pigs reared. One must also answer the question in such a way that the pig price has fallen by 50 percent since we were in the EU. What do you do to have the same income? – You just produce more, so you get back to your income. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Since accession to the EU, farmers must be satisfied with constantly decreasing incomes. That is why we cannot really talk about a preference for farmers. Someone has already mentioned it today – when you hear the accusations over and over again, the true face of the SPÖ fraction shows – that in recent years you have repeatedly tried to cut something off. According to Mr Molterer, it will be a problem in the next few days when we need to work together, that there will be more and more control tasks for the EU in the field of AMA, and that the support system will become increasingly complicated instead of simplified. We will work together to reduce and improve these points. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as organic farmers are concerned, it is important to ensure that they continue to be promoted. Mr Pirklhuber, we must always be careful to prevent and avoid the division between large and small farmers, between organic farmers and other farmers within the peasantry. Coming to the end: We must work together to ensure that the rural family farms remain a agricultural policy model. The path of ecologicalisation and the improvement of animal husbandry should continue to be pursued. The market position of farmers needs to be further improved. The labelling of high-quality products must be made clear. [[Abg. That's what I'm giving you!]] Let's not forget. Employment effects, resulting from agricultural support, invigorate rural areas. [[Abg. Swimmling: Right, too!]] Finally, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: In recent years, you have really not been envied by your coalition partner SPÖ, who, honestly, has nothing left for this professional group to achieve something positive. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: But now you are to envy!]] I can assure you and the farmers of one thing: As long as the liberals with the People's Party form a government, there will continue to be farming in the family farm!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6022	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6054	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Minister, can you recall the statements made by Mr Robert Wenitsch on the budget last year? [[Intercession with the liberals.]] What he knew, about the martener, about the peasantry and, and, what? – I think you are the Federal President of your few farmers you represent. Today at the budget: zero, nothing, nothing at all – a single sentence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And why, ladies and gentlemen? - He hasn't made the move yet. He went through the innhouses in the Weinviertel and slandered there. He's slandered about everything he's thought of. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's what you're doing now!]] That doesn't work anymore, he can't do it anymore, so other enemy images have to come from. Wrist, whether green, or another color – something we'll find out, there we're threshing, because there are no real arguments! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: An apolitical...!]] You're one of the most disadvantaged, Robert! You are one of these typical small farmers in the agricultural region of Marchfeld, so badly disadvantaged. You'll certainly know what you're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add a little further to the points raised by my colleague, Mr Sima. Federal Minister! I do not want to thank the fact that the written questions we submitted to the committee were answered very quickly. I would also like to refer briefly to these answers. To the climate: We agree that time is pressing. [[Abg. Böhacker: What climate?]] They have shown that concrete measures are already being taken, which is expected to reduce emissions. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Leave the former chancellor alone!]] They also meant that before the summer of 2000, the climate strategy must be drawn up between the local authorities in order to deal with it before the Conference of the Parties. You're right, but summer starts in about four weeks. The first conference to decide on concrete measures is the preparatory conference in Bonn from 12 to 16. June. That is to say, there is more than a great time pressure for Austria to be able to take the position necessary for climate-related measures. Mr Kopf mentioned that everyone is committed to the Kyoto target. I fully emphasize that, I too fully support the Kyoto target. However, I would like to remind you, Mr Federal Minister, that, as you have already explained, you have also made an essential declaration of inheritance in this respect that we all have made known to us here in the House about the Toronto target. Measures to achieve the Toronto target have not yet been put in place. For this you are the wrong contact person, which concerns the current Minister for Economic Affairs. Warm words were devoted to the Toronto target from this speaker's desk, but concrete measures did not, unfortunately, exist. The Kyoto target has a state-related obligation, which is a completely different criterion – I am fully aware of that. But I believe that it is necessary to coordinate the steps with all the parties here in Parliament in good time. If I think about it – I have already mentioned it – that you will soon have to take the first steps, then I lack the information to do so. It happened in the ÖKK a lot. A lot has happened with environmental promotions, and we have also asked you in committee. You were still of the opinion that it was decided – literally quoted – that 600 million schillings, as in 1999, will be available. I do not find this number in the proposal. We have in the proposal, as far as I remember, in the New Chapter 310 million schillings. If I count the 40 million of environmental age, it's 350 million, and with the expenses about 395 million. From 600 million schilling, this is very far away. In a press release, you presented at the last meeting that it is 475 million schilling. Are these actually present? Can these 475 million schilling be granted in the field of environmental support? – It is more than necessary to promote and implement operational environmental promotion than a means of climate-related reductions in the future. It cannot be the only instrument, as you have also stated: a reduction of about 45 000 tonnes at 160 million tonnes. When I calculate this, I come to 72 billion schillings that are necessary to achieve the 16 million tonnes according to Kyoto target. There will have to be other measures, the Austrian municipal credit has presented this in a very good report, as I think. It is necessary to provide for financial resources very soon. There is no such thing in 2000. From 2001 to 2010, we have additional financial needs if we are to take our climate-related objectives seriously. Federal Minister! We'll remind you. With the approval of a load on cars instead of fuels, you have failed to push the introduction of road pricing and so on, I believe, to take steps towards ecological tax reform, to reduce and reach the Kyoto target. I hope that we will find these figures in the 2001 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6159	The next speaker was Mr Prince. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6180	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After a number of previous speakers, namely those of the SPÖ and the Greens, who have complained of apparent inactivity in the legislation on environmental protection, I can inform you that the relevant applications have already been submitted by the employees, namely the EIA Act 2000 and the Waste Management Act, which can implement the IPPC Directive and also the Seveso Directive. These are steps which have unfortunately failed in the previous government to resist the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Ah!]] Leave However, I should like to begin by a few figures my speech on the broad chapter on agriculture. I come from the most beautiful Danube region of Austria, the Strudengau in the Mühlviertel. I should like to focus briefly on the Objective 5b programme of the previous legislative period. In the Mühlviertel, for example, 687 projects were implemented and funding of nearly 557 million schillings was committed. What was created with that? – For example, 314 guest beds for farm holidays were newly created or redesigned, 100 kilometres of freight roads or rural access routes were built. In the field of district heating and biomass energy, more than 23 000 kW of connection value and 28 000 metres of district heating network have been created. That's 475 connections. Overall, 1 090 new jobs were created in the last programme period in Upper Austria with the Objective 5b programme. I am very grateful for this kind of agricultural policy. In addition, it should be noted that the Leader programme, which allows agricultural and rural development to be deepened accordingly, has used 191 million schilling in Upper Austria. Federal Minister! You are certainly on the right track with this sustainable way. I believe that it is necessary that we farmers' representatives constantly demand that the programmes be improved accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that Austria was the first country to submit the new rural development programme in Brussels, already in September last year. That our programme is a good one and that Austria has enforcement capacity alone proves the fact that at 2% of the area, we will receive 10 percent of the funds from this area. In this way, we can really do something for farmers in the rural sector and also maintain our predominance in the field of organic farming. Agriculture is responsible for many areas. It is our Minister for Agriculture Willi Molterer who is responsible for ensuring and implementing multifunctionality in the European agricultural policy, because we produce farmers much more than food. We do a lot of services for society. These services are often referred to as gifts by the left half of the empire. However, I believe that we have a right to the payment of these benefits for society from society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is certainly necessary to think something more comprehensive, rather than just selecting individual areas, sections, it is about maintaining infrastructure, protecting against natural disasters, providing services for tourism, caring for the landscape and the like. Think of our environmental resources! Agriculture is much more than food production. For example, the OPUL 2000 is an essential factor in support. For reasons of time, I do not want to go into this, but the right approaches are included in it: Nature conservation, groundwater conservation, organic farming and the like. The introduction of the base amount in mining promotion will be essential steps to improve, and – not to forget – the removal of discrimination against secondary workers, for example in the promotion of investment. In summary, it can be found that this is a programme that is thought-out and takes innovative steps. These develop in favour of sustainability and for the benefit of future generations. Agriculture offers more than 200 000 jobs in agriculture. At the same time, we link more than 600 000 jobs in the downstream and downstream areas. An old proverb says: If the farmers are fine, the whole world is fine. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, above all from the SPÖ: Finally stop with the stupid neida arguments against the peasants! [[Abg. Swimming: Well, well!]] Before you go ahead and talk about gifts, once you exchange with an average Austrian farmer, so you know what it means to earn less than the average to work more than the average, to work on Sundays and holidays, because the cattle has to be provided and the like, and without getting any supplements! That means a little more practice would be necessary. If someone from your group is looking for a practical place in a cattle farm, I would like to be at the disposal of you so that the speeches from the SPÖ on agriculture can come into a little more reality and above all there is a sense of home.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6245	Next speaker: Mr Brix. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6266	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Unfortunately, we do not have precise comparability in this budget regarding the environment, because additional areas such as radiation protection, which were integrated into the new Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, make no accurate comparison possible. Nevertheless, and despite this combination with the Ministry of Agriculture, this environmental budget is around 100 million schillings lower than the past. That is why I believe, Minister of State, that not only is there less money available for environmental tasks, namely the traditional tasks of environmental protection, but that there will be no money at all for new important tasks, such as climate change policy. Therefore, we simply cannot give our consent to the environmental budget in this form. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is sad that a consequence of this significant reduction in the environmental budget is also a significant reduction in funding for environmental projects in Germany and abroad. For example, we cannot give other countries the appropriate funding to improve their environmental policy, which also benefits us, for example, with a view to reducing ground close ozone, which is cross-border, because the money is simply no longer available. I am particularly affected by another impact of the reduction in the environmental budget. I took part, together with Mr Monika Langthaler, in many meetings to create the March-Donau-Auen National Park. It is interesting how many of those opponents today talk about how good it is that this National Park was created. I was in the National Park two weeks ago with a group of about 60 people. I have made it my task to bring many of my party friends to the national parks. Staff members of the Austrian Federal Forest make these tours through the National Parks. Its explanations can be found how important this National Park is near a big city like Vienna. The National Park, on which all Austrians can be proud, begins in this big city and extends down to the state border. However, we Austrians can also be proud of the other national parks, whether that is the Neusiedler Lake National Park or that is in the limestone Alps or in the Großglockner area. Austrian National Parks are something important. But, Minister of State, there is a need for money. We need money in particular to create more national parks. They have to stand up against the Minister of Agriculture as Minister of the Environment. Is the right hand the stronger, or is the left hand the stronger? However, both hands should be equally strong, above all you should give the environment a chance to strengthen it, which will also make Austria's regions stronger, because a national park is also a sign for Austrian tourism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another thing: Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have given new opportunities to the Federal Environment Agency in the last legislative period with the Environmental Control Act, and we hope that you, Minister, will use this Federal Environment Agency in those federal states, for example, where there is no old load disaster. I have already said this in committee: We simply need an old load-casser in every federal state, only so that we know where the old loads are located. The Federal Environment Agency would therefore be particularly required here. I have here a broadcast by Mr Schweitzer from Monday this week in my hand, in which I quote: "The new EIA law creates a modern audit law that creates a viable balance between the environment and the economy", says Schweitzer." We would not have achieved this right of plant in the past legislative period – I negotiated it myself at the time – because we did not want the protection of the environment to remain on the track. That is why it cannot be said that a law is now being introduced which will restore the environment. We simply need a citizen's participation, we need the EIA law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want people to be able to talk about what is happening in their region. As Mrs Schweitzer – I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party to judge this – has said that the Brix has voted out of the Environment Committee, I must resist this: It will now remain right so that we can not only prevent this EIA law, but also inform people about how this coalition now intends to deal with the environment. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] There's still hope. Federal Minister! You know that I personally appreciate you very much, and I know how much your heart depends on agriculture and therefore also on the environment. That is why you are also a guarantee to me that you will be careful that the environment does not come under the wheels of the new EIA law.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6354	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Fallent. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6376	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Sima has said that the new government has not had time to deal with environmental policy in the first 100 days, this claim is wrong. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's what the Khol said! She just quoted!]] But it would be understandable, because at the inheritance you left us, I wonder what we've done. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Federal Minister was always a black man, always one of the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to pay attention because today's issue is too serious and too important to be ignored or abused for party-political games. On the one hand, we are not in a position to take action against unjustified sanctions of the EU-14. However, I would like to ask you to be careful in this area of the environment and climate protection. It is not a question of whether we want to or can take the turn towards sustainable development, but rather the question of whether we can afford to do nothing. The current situation is characterised by lifestyles and economics, which consume a lot of energy and resources, which we used a few decades ago. 20 percent of earth's population consume 80 percent of the world's total resources. The fight for resources is in full swing. Worldwide climate change is caused by over-used use of fossil energy sources. Soil destruction and population growth expect a global food crisis in the next decades if we do not counter it. There is the loss of natural diversity of the landscape, ecosystems and species of animals and plants. While gross social product is rising worldwide, quality of life is falling. Unemployment is increasing and social tensions are intensifying. Locally adapted structures and life forms are at risk in many parts of the world. We feel this – especially in rural areas – to endanger local supply, to increasingly separate work, living and leisure, to a limitless growth of the agglomerations and to empty rural areas. There is a risk of agricultural farming and the destruction of growing cultural landscapes. Our goal must therefore be to create habitats with a future, equipped with intact natural budget, balanced social interaction and a sustainable economy. It must be based on seven principles: Firstly, the principle of local identity. Confidentiality creates identification and security. Austria's diverse habitats and life forms must be preserved and therefore have priority. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, the principle of orientation on the natural. Decisions are in harmony with nature, as it was always. Thirdly, the principle of long-termism. We have to think again in generations. The orientation is not the short-term advantage, but the long-term benefit. Fourthly, the principle of priority of qualities. It's called living well and not necessarily having a lot. The four factors, namely equal prosperity in a quarter of resource consumption, should be sought. Fifth, the principle of diversity. Diversity is wealth, diversity gives the structures stability. Sixthly, the principle of partnership. Partnership actions are practised and actively supported. Seventhly, the principle of proximity. Only what is visible can be looked through. We must strive to bring together the goods of daily needs spatially, to create small cycles and to give priority to regional renewable raw materials and resources. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to keep values, you have to change structures. That's what we stand for, and that's what we confess. That is why we are all committed to replacing, through feed-in schemes, eco-bonus systems and the ecologicalisation of the tax system, fossil and nuclear energy sources by renewable means, that climate protection targets are achieved through national measures and therefore remain in the country with purchasing power, value added and jobs, that regionally available resources have priority, that we safeguard high-quality food and protect our so-called white gold, our water, and protect it from foreign determination. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore stick to the principle of unanimity in the management of water resources. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will also ensure, through laws and regulations in plant law and in environmental impact assessments, that there is no further emptying of rural areas and not the boundless growth of the agglomerations. We will protect and protect people from unbearable and health-damaging noise through reduction and better control of substances and energy streams, as well as, where necessary, through structural measures. We will put the circular economy ahead of end-of-pipe technologies. And one thing is very important: We will try to make the people aware that they can make ends meet with their consumption. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing is produced, which is not consumed. However, we are in the field of tension between political necessity and lack of awareness in all social areas. Ladies and gentlemen! We have enough time to reach our goal. However, we must not waste time creating the framework conditions for a quality life and the best possible coverage of the needs. To go on the path to sustainability is the challenge. Staying on this road is the goal. Politics is art to enable the necessary. This turn is necessary in order to secure the quality of life and peace permanently. Let's make this way possible together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6466	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please start, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the playback of the claim you wish to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6490	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Fallent said several times in the previous speech that we had left him a legacy that he did not like. I'm actually putting it right: Firstly, we did not die, Mr Fallent, the SPÖ is very alive, and secondly, if we had inherited something, then not to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6529	I would like to say whether this was a correction, Mr President, I would like to make one point. Mr Oberhaidinger spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6553	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen from the Freedom Party! Maybe you'll calm down again. I take the time, ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution to the debate. To correct the trap. He claimed that we would have said that you would not have found time for environmental concerns in the first 100 days. – I’m right, this statement comes from Klubobmann Khol. I would ask you to take note of this. Ladies and gentlemen! There was so much talk about time. I can't remember that in the time of the red-black big coalition, we ever prevented Minister Bartenstein from implementing the many objectives he set himself, in fact, all the goals he has signed worldwide, in Toronto, Kyoto and so on, in this country as well. If you have read one of the latest APA issues in which the Federal Environment Agency is commenting on carbon dioxide emissions in our country, you must have read as I have read that carbon dioxide emissions, say the emissions of greenhouse gas number one in our country, do not and do not go back. This article is also titled. In 1998 66.8 million tonnes were blown into the air, and in 1996 there were 65.9 million tonnes. So the emissions have hardly changed. The Federal Environment Agency notes that with these values we are very, very far away from both the Toronto and Kyoto targets. We would have to reach 45.6 million tonnes for Toronto in 2005, a third less than in 1998. And we also exceeded the Kyoto target by 18.5 percent in 1998. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of ambitious targets in our country to reduce emissions accordingly. It was said that there would be a national climate strategy in 2000. This requires a so-called expert report, which is now – I have read – also available. It was presented in December 1999. This option report contains a catalogue which essentially focuses on the following measures: thermal building renovation, the use of renewable energy sources – here in ElWOG 2000 – and the reduction of organic waste in landfills. These are the three main pillars in this option report, Mr Federal Minister. For thermal building renovation: This could save 1.7 million tonnes of CO2 per year. In this area, new construction already has a great deal to do with the housing of the countries. I mean, there's really a lot of possibilities in the old house renovation. The goal: The thermal rehabilitation rate should be increased from 0.5 percent to 1 percent per year, and the buildings built after the Second World War, which have the worst energy properties, should be filtered out so that they can be completely renovated and insulated. Federal Minister! But it is a very big concern not only to talk about damming, but also to improve space heating accordingly, to make it more environmentally friendly. In this context, district heating is pressing, especially in densely built areas, an excellent opportunity. Power-heat coupling plants have the highest energy efficiency with the lowest specific costs to achieve the Kyoto target, and with this in mind, concrete action needs to be taken in the near future. All of this would be measures that, in my opinion, comply with the principle of sustainable development – you have addressed it in your speech. Because I'm just going to be "sustainable": I think it is right that a clear no was said by your predecessor to nuclear power as an alternative in the fight against greenhouse gases. You have also confirmed and repeated this. However, I find it sad that the Federal Government has not been running the measures provided for in the Action Plan and the motion for a resolution in recent times. Anti-atomic policy is not felt at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, if at all, it is rather sluggish. Since you also spoke of talking with a tongue in the anti-atomic policy, I can refer to the example of Krško in Slovenia. Ms. Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner says only about Krško that it would be a safe power plant to comply with Western standards – but in doing so, she completely overlooks the flaws of beauty that Krško is situated on an earthquake line. Ms. Landeshauptmann Klasnic, the next neighbor affected, demands the immediate closure, and Jörg Haider as the head of the state of Carinthia also calls for the immediate closure. It would be really important, if not very much, to find at least a uniform language system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that a large number of the measures envisaged are quite ambitious. There are plenty of theories and announcements. What it hopes to do, however, is the very concrete implementation. This starts with the fact that the environmental concerns are located in the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't even think it's an independent ministry in the sense, but for me, in my opinion, the environmental concerns in the Ministry of Agriculture are only localized, and that alone is a contradiction in itself. The blue-black government decides in the budget accompanying law and in the budget a large number of ecologically absurd and non-social tax increases. The intention of sustainable economic development could, if there is no change here, be called into question in a sustainable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6627	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6649	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Rural development has a high priority in Agenda 2000. This is important because rural areas are the basis for many citizens in our country. After all, 80 percent of the citizens of this country live in rural areas. In this way, the rural area, together with agriculture, is an opportunity for the future, which offers prospects and we want to use them. The rural area is an issue that concerns all of us, because it provides the basis of life that we all need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Valuable tasks for society as a whole are being fulfilled. For agriculture in particular, the development of rural areas is a source of hope, because we in production – and many previous speakers have already emphasized this today – admittedly have difficulties due to an ever-increasing price and production pressure. Markets open up, there are new trends, but also different purchasing behaviour. Therefore, rural development as a second strong pillar for agriculture will be immensely important in the future. We want to shape agriculture in this way – today several legs have already been mentioned – that we bring income to agriculture through production and on the other hand with services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this way, we will be able to shape and maintain rural habitat. Everyone in this House gives us the right to: Clean water, healthy air, room for relaxation and protected soil cannot be free of charge. For this we receive the money and support for rural areas. Rural development must be diverse and meet our country's demands. We have different demands compared to Europe. I am grateful for the fact that Minister Molterer has already contributed much to the implementation in the past. A strong Minister for Agriculture and the Environment will continue to do so in the future, and some who have considered it quite critical today will be surprised. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thanks also for the success of bringing the funds – 5.8 billion schilling – that is at least 9.7 percent of the EU’s total budget, and for the next period, 41 billion for Austria as a whole. We will use these resources effectively and efficiently. Mr Federal Minister, we will support you in this. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] As a new Member of this House, we must also have visions and make concrete projects. I am convinced that, through networks and new cooperations between agriculture, industry and industry, we will be able to make more and more offers for citizens in the cultural, tourism, leisure, but also in the field of experience and thus make our contribution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But we also need to promote organisations. Today, I have been directly addressed by Mr Pirklhuber, the machine rings would be too highly promoted, but I can give you all this... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: There is 50 percent more funding for machine rings and no more bulkes for other areas!]] What was it called? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: There is 50 percent more for machine rings!]] Thank you. Then let's correct that. But I'm going to show you the exact promotion. We have implemented many projects in the last ten years – and I have been responsible for that. In Tyrol we are 5 500 farmers. We provide municipal services by maintaining cycle paths, maintaining hiking trails, cultivating skiers in a way, and so on. There are many projects in the future. Rural development is an active contribution to environmental protection, and together with production we will maintain the steep areas, manage pastures and protect the forest. Today, in the "Tyrol daily" there is an article "Almen as protection from disasters". Farmers' performance for landscape care can now be expressed in figures for the first time. This study – I will request it and make it distributed – is very important for this house. Rural development means repositioning a profession means maintaining jobs, creating new jobs and providing opportunities for young people, as well as protecting citizens and basic needs whose satisfaction people expect from rural areas. It is important to secure settlement and improve infrastructure. With an active rural policy, for rural areas, we will meet the increasing demands of society. We need rural development to do this. Thank you, Minister of State, for being ready as a helper for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6729	The next speaker was Mr Wimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6751	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to turn to groundwater. I am particularly concerned with the increased limits on pesticides and nitrates. At present, about 400 000 people in Austria are supplied with water whose pesticides are above the limits. For 150,000 inhabitants in Austria, the current nitrate limit of 50 milligrams per litre has been significantly exceeded. I therefore mention this, ladies and gentlemen, because the problems have been known for a very long time. But to date, nothing is at all. Since 1999, there have been comprehensive data on nitrates, but the dangerous situation remains unchanged. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, it is true that no reorganisation measures have been introduced. The analyses carried out essentially confirmed the previously known problem regions that we have known for a long time. These are particularly the agricultural areas in the north and southeastern Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! There are 88 derogations in Upper Austria alone, i.e. 88 cases where the limit values for nitrates and pesticides are officially exceeded and above all with authority knowledge. If I may quote here: in the district of Braunau there are two such exceptions, in Eferding two, in Gmunden even 17, in Grieskirchen one, in Kirchdorf two, in Linz-Land – there you can see exactly where intensive agriculture is operated – even 13 and in Wels-Land there are even 27 to not all of them. In view of this, I feel a little agitated when I have to read on Saturday in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" a whole page, designed by the FP councillor Achatz and by the head of state, about the fact that Upper Austria is the water world champion. I think that is really covered because we know that there are very bad areas of rehabilitation in Upper Austria, but no regulations have been adopted to date. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think this condition is unsustainable and, Minister of State, this is about the health of people. I mean, it would be possible to get there in water law, too. But so far you just haven't trusted yourself because you have to touch a hot iron. Although there are a few designated areas of rehabilitation, there are no regulations to do so, as has been said. There, where groundwater is massively contaminated, it would simply be necessary to lay down management restrictions, and where groundwater is really poisoned, ladies and gentlemen, it would be possible to impose a ban on the use of the regulation at all. Health still has to go before income, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All the studies we have shown that more than half of the Austrian groundwater areas are in need of renovation. This actually means that more than half of the Austrians can no longer take drinking water unfiltered. That's really a bad situation. Federal Minister! You have to take this problem more seriously, otherwise we will not even be able to solve it in the long term. It does nothing at all if, in all the reports – and we have already heard some – in the Green Report, in the forest report and in the environmental report, every year this dangerous situation is referred to, but no action is taken by you. Tips and studies are enough! The problem is known. It is now necessary to finally put action, Mr Federal Minister, because it is about the health of the people living there, the people living there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6805	The next speaker was Mr Weinmeier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6826	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by replying to Mr Ex-Minister to his statement, which he made under the terms of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You can't do that at all!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr President, can the speaker raise the accusation of abuse?]] In the private sector, it is possible to reject a debt inheritance. Unfortunately, we couldn't do that. We had to accept this debt inheritance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Fischl: This is the reality!]] I am sure that this is enough with this inconspicuous contribution from the Lord. A job and now an environmental policy. I would like to point out how I did this yesterday: Environmental policy has long been a national problem in many areas, but it is a European problem across borders and in many aspects. I mention the example of water, which has been mentioned many times today, or the example of transport, or the example of air pollution. We therefore have to become active in this area in the EU – Austria has always taken a pioneering role in the environmental field – and the EU must say quite clearly that it should finally stop dealing with sanctions, but rather, for example, drive forward environmental policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The most up-to-date issue in the field of environmental policy is the issue of CO2 reduction. There can be no environmental debate without taking a stand on this subject without dealing with this issue. At the time, Austria had a pioneering role in the field of nuclear policy, because at that time a far-sighted people of the "Politics Kreisky" rejected. I therefore believe that Austria should also play a pioneering role in CO2 reduction. The previous development – and that must be said – is certainly not satisfactory. Austria has made several international commitments in this area. As item 1, I refer to Parliament's decision in 1994, based on the Rio conference in 1992, as item 2, the EU's 1990 Stability Decision, which decided to achieve stabilisation in that decade, as item 3, the Toronto Agreement, which also joined the Austrian Federal Government, committed itself to reducing CO2 emissions by 20 percent compared with 1988, and lastly, the Kyoto Convention, which has already been mentioned today, in 1997, which the EU Ministers decided to reduce by 15 percent compared with 1990 by 2010. – So this is constantly changing, you really have to keep the overview. Austria has voluntarily committed itself to reducing by 25 percent by 2010. This is really an ambitious goal, but unfortunately we are very far away. The reality doesn't look good: The consumption of fossil fuels is increasing – of course also CO2 emissions – and the share of renewable energy sources is falling. I am now saving myself reading the statistics because you know them, too. In view of the above-mentioned reduction targets and in view of this development, one has unfortunately to say that under these conditions the objectives will not be achieved. Austria has, as has been said, committed itself at international level to an active CO2 reduction policy. However, we want to continue to hold on to this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Federal Minister! Therefore, we should not think too early about so-called flexible measures as you did a few weeks ago on the occasion of a panel discussion – I have to add something surprising to me. "Flexible measures" is a beautiful term – for those who may not be so concerned with environmental issues – for an unpleasant thing, namely, emissions trading, or otherwise: the uniform distribution of environmental pollution across the world. If you know how this distribution comes about when you hear that, for example, countries in the eastern block with huge CO2 emissions in this area suddenly have reserves to sell and cash for it, then you can imagine how it will work. Federal Minister! Flexible measures mean a flow of money abroad instead of investment in this field domestically and also mean a job flow abroad. National solutions are therefore cheaper, and they are also possible, because some countries in Europe, such as Denmark and Holland, have already proved this. Federal Minister! Austria should therefore continue to do everything to reduce it at national level, for example by strengthening the promotion of Austrian biomass. This makes sense for the people because it replaces the import of fossil energy, and this is also an opportunity for agriculture. We will therefore continue to be happy to support you with our dedicated caretaker at the Environment Committee, Karl Schweitzer. To conclude: In an environmental debate, we cannot fail to mention that there is in this House a party that is called a "green" but in fact has long since been adopted by environmental policy. This has been made clear again today. [[Intervoke by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber and Haidlmayr.]] - Excuse me, with perhaps two exceptions, if I want to be fair! Especially in this area, which should be the most appropriate subject of this party, at times only two Members have attended the debate. This alone shows your interest in environmental policy and that you have already adopted environmental policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory call from Mr Oellinger.]] Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, to whom I would like to say this personally here from the speaker's desk, which is a good student of the two left-wing mushrooms and oillers... [[Abg. Elder: Wrong! That's where I have to make an actual correction!]] Therefore, you should really think about whether you should not change your party name to "FBP" – Freedomful defamation party. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: "Freedom" we don't want to be called!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will therefore keep your statistics in mind in each of my speech reports what you are doing in the environmental field. In the case of self-employed motions for resolutions: 11 out of 55 – this is not so bad yet, in the case of written questions: 47 out of 260 – this is only about one fifth, and then, as always, it comes to a very thick end in the self-employed applications: zero of 24, which deal with environmental issues. Ladies and gentlemen! They have adopted the environment in favour of a left-left social policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6965	Mr Fallent! We agreed that the words "extrem" and "right-wing" in this House deserve a call for order. I therefore give you a call for order. For a given reason, I note that the actual correction of the honourable Member was not in conformity with the rules of business, so according to § 58 para. 2, 3 and 4 would have been to withdraw the word. – Only your word was so short that I didn’t come to that anymore. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Dobnigg, the next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7005	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! How "severe" this new federal government takes environmental protection, we were able to learn about television from Mr. Klubobmann Khol's mouth last Sunday. But it is also seen that the budget for the environment sector was reduced by over 100 million schilling compared to the previous year. This means not only less money for the traditional tasks of environmental protection, but also, above all, for new important areas such as climate protection. I come from the Donawitz hut plant, where the best and longest rails in the world are produced, but I am strictly opposed to the fact that the environmental protection – as currently practised by Schwarz-Blau – is placed on the shelf track. This issue is just too important to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Noise protection is an equally important part of environmental protection, and I would like to address this issue today. Noise disturbs, noise is burdened, and noise is sick. More than two thirds of the population feel bothered by road traffic noise. Other sources of noise are air and rail transport. Against these pressures of everyday life, something has to be done, because everyday noise – as studies show – leads to sleep disorders, to disabilities in communication, to reducing concentration, to reducing learning and performance, also to relaxation and relaxation. In addition, high persistent noise causes a strong load on the cardiovascular system and leads to arrhythmia. Noise has countless sources, and each one of us is in one way or another also a cause of noise in everyday life. Not every noise situation can and should attempt to regulate the state by laws and regulations. But due to a sensible and forward-looking planning, such as for example with new road and railway lines, noise protection can be optimised for the environment. In addition to the intensification of legal bids and prohibitions, in particular the setting of limit values, other means of noise reduction shall also be applied by the State. These include, in particular, the creation of rules for the advantage of the use of lignite machinery and vehicles, the guarantee of tax advantages for noise-reducing investments in the commercial sector and the financial promotion of the development of quiet equipment. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! However, noise control policy seems to be a foreign word to this Federal Government. How else can it be explained that there is far too little financial resources available for noise protection measures in the 2000 budget? Especially in times of a strong increase in road traffic and, above all, a strong increase in truck traffic, I am totally incomprehensible why the responsible side is no longer being done for the people who are in trouble. How do you explain these failures in the noise protection of the population in their quality of life on the Austrian transit routes? In any case, we from the Socialist Group have no understanding of such failure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the end of my speech, I would like to address another issue, which is particularly dear to me as a Styrian Member, namely the Krško nuclear power station. This nuclear power station is located just 100 kilometres south of Graz and is 60 kilometres from the Austrian state border. Krško is located in a seismicly active and therefore particularly at risk of earthquake – all the reasons to close this extremely dangerous plant at once. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the demand for the closure of Krško was clearly defined in 1999 in the Anti-Atom Action Plan of the Socialist Federal Government. However, I now had to take note of Mrs Ferrero-Waldner's statement on her visit to Liège, which says that the Austrian Government is no longer demanding the early closure of the power plant. As a Styrian MP, I am opposed to such a weakening of the anti-atomic policy of Austria. With this, the Foreign Minister is acting massively against the security interests of the people, especially our Styrian ones. On the basis of this example, however, the failure of the Styrian head of state, Klasnic, to enforce itself in the face of important concerns of the Styrian population is evident again. The Federation once again puts the Styria in a corner in an important question, and Klasnic bends the interests of its party to the detriment of our Styrian population. As with the Semmering Base Tunnel, Mrs. Landeshuptmann Klasnic has also come through – once again – on this question. Mr Federal Minister, you have been asked to bring your colleague back to the bottom of the 1999 Anti-Atom Pact in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, the SPÖ will continue its consistent anti-atomic policy in order to ensure maximum protection of the Austrian population against the dangers of nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7093	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7114	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have followed this budget debate on the agriculture chapter from the beginning. [[Abg. You son of a bitch! Great!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Bravo!]] Thank you! I have found that my colleagues from the two government parties are really taking this issue seriously, and they have been aware that the subject is at their heart, which unfortunately cannot be claimed by all the speakers. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "Pointed" was that now!]] But I would now like to come to an environmental issue. Some of us will certainly know that in September 1998 the last truck loaded with waste drove from the Berger dump near Weikersdorf. Thus, one of the largest and most dangerous garbage pits in Austria was permanently disposed of. Of course, this important milestone in the renovation of old loads must not conceal the fact that there is still a lot of work waiting for our new Federal Minister – new in this field. There are still 2,500 critical areas in the Austrian suspect plan. For almost 150 of these, it is already clear that it is actually old loads that need to be secured or rehabilitated. Especially the old industrial zones of Austria in Styria, in Lower Austria, in Upper Austria, but also in Salzburg and in Carinthia, are hard to bear on this heritage. Unfortunately, in many cases it is not yet clear how dangerous the respective old loads are, although hundreds of millions of schilling have already flown into relevant investigations. At times, this situation seems to me to be the same as in the oil industry: Whenever one believes that one has all the warehouses under control, new camps appear, which put everything known so far far far far far in the shadows. I am therefore very glad that the new Federal Government continues to address the problem of old-age rehabilitation as a problem that cannot be seen separately from all other economic and social developments. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The integration of the Ministry of the Environment with the agricultural sector can only be welcomed, because purely punctual measures do not achieve anything in the environment at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way, even green-coloured panic-making solutions do not provide a good service. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] I'm thinking about the waste burning. It was made by the greens for so long until no single chimney could be set up for controlled combustion. Today, even the greens have to admit that it does not matter to the chimney, but to the right pre-sorting, to the right temperature when burning and such things more. Generally speaking, ladies and gentlemen: Technical hostility does not solve environmental problems! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is only in cooperation with the economy, agriculture and consumers. Minister Molterer has already proved that he can find and implement solutions with respect to all – I emphasize – affected populations. This was so in the implementation of the National Parks, which also affected the interests of agriculture and forestry, and this is so when safeguarding and rehabilitating the old loads that are ticking in Austria, in which one must determine whether the enormous size of the task must not lose the nerves, but persistently, landfills around landfills, collect, investigate and then secure and dispose of. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, allow me to make a cross-reference to another environmental problem, namely the genetic tests currently carried out with or on fruit trees. On the question of genetic engineering, too, thanks to the new Federal Government, Austria is taking a good, trusting path, as I am saying – without the euphoria that prevails in other countries, but also without the fundamental anti-terrorism that our colleagues from the Greens in the High House so highly value. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7212	Mrs Gatterer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please, stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7237	Mr Dobnigg said that the Foreign Minister had said on her visit to Slovenia that Slovenia's exit from nuclear power would not be an objective of this Federal Government. The fact is that the goal of this Federal Government is still a nuclear-free Central Europe and remains that the decommissioning of Krško and the other nuclear power plants is still an objective for us. It is true, however, that the Foreign Minister has made it clear that Slovenia's accession to the EU cannot be linked to an exit – and you know that this is right.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7272	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7293	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Annoyed by some speeches, I would first like to address Mr Dobnigg, the apparently new noise protection officer of social democracy. Mr Dobnigg! We can take this path together. You know there's a state hospital in Leoben where the train passes. The relevant complaints of the doctors and the patients there have now reached Graz. However, there are deaf ears at Comrade Schachner, there are deaf ears at Comrade Ressel, who both promised two years ago to have noise protection devices attached there, but with the last election also the corresponding ambitions of the two gentlemen stopped. Perhaps in the context of the country election we can be reawakening and not content with reviling the head of state here with two superfluous donations, which were still empty. I have no reason to defend the head of state of Styria, but the attacks that have come here today were at least unqualified! [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mrs Perfuss. You have repeatedly accused us of falling into animal welfare matters, as you express yourself. I just want to stop you: In 100 days we have made a request for the criminal law on animal torture. We have set up an initiative to review the Article 15a contracts at this time. I would ask you to support us in this regard with your comrade Häupl, who, as the head of state of Vienna, is more than sluggish in the implementation of the Article 15a Treaties. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] Between 1970 and 1999, you yourself did not hear the word "animal protection" in your group, nor did you. In December of last year, Mrs Parfuss, when you had the opportunity to accept a request for a deadline, which we have tabled with Mrs Petrovic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Perfuss]] It's not until the new year, Mrs Perfuss, that you discovered animal welfare, and now we're moving forward. But let's forget the past! Support us in our efforts to protect animals! We have a great deal of conviction to our coalition partner to convince him of the sensibleness of a animal welfare law in many areas. We're going this way. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Just agree to our request! That's so simple!]] You didn't go this way. Mr Parnigoni, in the government agreement negotiated between ÖVP and SPÖ, the word "animal protection" is not even present. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is the truth!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Now and in yours?]] - Yes! If you make the effort to read the agreement between the government parties, you will find in writing, on the one hand, the implementation of the 14a agreements, but also the continuation of animal welfare towards the EU – far more than you have ever brought together, Mr Parnigoni. – 15a! Thank you! [[Abg. Parnigoni: 15a, not 14a!]] [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] [[Abg. Brix: Mr Grollitsch! 15 a!]] Federal Minister! However, I also spoke because you mentioned the action "Living Rivers" and wanted to point out that an initiative, influenced by the WWF – which you should not believe is the place where the entire biological knowledge is stored – was put in the context of which Huchen was exposed in Lower Austrian Alpine Rivers. I would ask you to follow a request from the Freeman from the XX. GP, in which we called for a resolution on the installation of fish ascent aid for the existing hydropower plants, where Danube began to enter the Alps. We have had sufficient reason to do so, we have already talked about it in the committee, and we, as a government partner, will not distance ourselves from this request. I would like to ask you to help us with this project, because a river continuum makes it easy to get up and down the fish in it possible. The currently installed fish ascent aids are partly not functional, in most of the plants there is no installation at all at all. Please support us in this way and remember that living rivers need continuity! It is also necessary to abolish the amount of zero-water leftovers still available in Austria and there in disregard of the Water Act. There's still a lot to do here. You will have a partner in us on this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7421	Mrs Parfuss has spoken on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7446	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The previous speaker, Dr. Grollitsch, has claimed that we have not taken the word "animal protection" into the mouth since 1995, I believe. [[Abg. Dr. Grollisch: I didn't say!]] I'm correcting: President Fischer made the first request in 1990. I have been an animal protection spokesman for our group since 1994, and we have set up activities several times a year towards a Federal Animal Protection Act, but the ÖVP has not gone along with it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Only we didn't notice!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7513	I call Mr Schweisgut. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7534	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a horse-breeding expert, I should actually talk about the budget for horse-breeding today, but, Minister, you will admit, the budget is too small to be left out for a long time, so I have chosen a different subject. So I'm going to deal with the organic farming, the organic farmers, in this sense. This topic has already been edited by many speakers today. Very interesting at first is perhaps the definition of what is big and what is small – the "little" man and the "great" man in Austria. I don't know if a socialist union official with two Supervisory Board posts is a typical "small" man and a miner with ten hectares of steep to managed area at 2,000 meters high is a "large" man. I don't know what's big and what's small. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: With ten hectares you are already a big farmer at SPÖ!]] – So I wanted to relativize the terms "big" and "small" a little. I believe that the health awareness of the Austrians has simply increased in recent years, that the interest in organic agricultural products, which are far from chemical and genetic manipulation, has grown. Therefore, of course, the promotion of the Republic of Austria in cooperation with the EU is of great importance, because it is very much in favour of organic farming. I believe that, for all of us, the organic farmer has a very, very important function in Austria, and if we see that there are around 20,000 organic farms in us – interestingly, the second highest absolute number in the EU; only in Italy, there are more 30 000 farms than in Austria – this shows the importance of the organic farming in Austria. The budget has not been reduced in recent years thanks to God, but has still been slightly increasing. This also shows how much our Minister of Agriculture appreciates the importance of organic farming. Thank you very much for that! It is very important – and I would like to appeal to you here – that we all identify ourselves a little more with organic farming. I think the situation has become very difficult for organic farmers in recent years. If you look at the figures in Tyrol, which are clearly declining, there must be some reasons for this – be it the reduced purchasing will of the Austrians, whether it be the problem with the attitude of animals. Through increased control measures, it has become very difficult for some organic farmers especially in the small-scale Tyrolean structure, because there are hardly any direct outlets around the house at farms located directly in the village center in the Tyrolean Oberland. One reason, of course, is also a perhaps not quite perfect marketing strategy, for which in the next few years the budget will certainly have to do something else, so that one can meet the organic farmers a little so that they will also have the opportunity to produce in the future, with the abandonment of fertilizers and chemicals, using closed cycles and, above all, using strict hygiene regulations. It must be noted that the figures speak a clear language. Thus, the organic potatoes are more than 50 percent more expensive than traditional potatoes, it is fresh milk by more than 20 percent more expensive and therefore also relatively difficult to market. I would therefore appeal that public relations and marketing should be strengthened even more in future with regard to organic products. The press reports of the last few days have shown very clearly that many antibiotics, growth promoters and similar products are still being used excessively, especially abroad, which are not used in Austrian agriculture. I would therefore like once again to call on everyone to give real support to the organic farmers in their position in order to secure them in their substance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In any event, further initiatives for Austrian organic farmers will have to be launched in the future, advertising and sales strategies will need to be further developed, as envisaged in our government's plan, and AMA will perhaps also exercise a little less control in the future and provide more support. At least our organic farmers are all "small" people, and we from the government will continue to help them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7579	The next speaker was Mr Kampichler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7600	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! After my previous speakers have discussed the environment and agriculture in great detail, I would just like to focus very briefly on the disaster fund. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Despite a difficult budgetary situation, the appropriations for the disaster fund for 2000 have been disbursed at the same level as in 1999. This is very soothing, and it confirms above all: Although the Schüssel government consistently saves, sustainable, forward-looking, but not the wrong place. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the 2000 budget, one billion Schilling is planned for the forestry service, for wildlife and avalanche cultivation. That's 60 percent of the total volume, 20 percent of the countries come from it, and another 20 percent of the municipalities. For urgent measures, there is a pot of 50 million schilling, and how important such pots are, ladies and gentlemen, the inhabitants of my narrower home, namely the Pittental, have to experience dramatically last year. The Pittental was hit by one of the most severe floods of the last century and flooded, houses were torn away, they were partially slipped off, they were partly under water, roads and roads were flooded away and murified. Within a few minutes, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a damage of several hundred million schillings. People have become homeless and have lost possessions and good. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In such emergency situations, it is good if there are functioning aid facilities and if there is, above all, the necessary budget resources to be able to put in place emergency aid measures. As sad and as dramatic as such disasters are, it is so impressive to experience the functioning of our security facilities and above all to feel the help and donation of the civilian population. We may, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, be very proud of our high social and humanitarian level. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] It is a pleasure to be able to see this. The population affected by the disaster is very, very grateful for all the assistance, for all the assistance and for the donations, and I am very happy to be the speaker of my fellow citizens and can publicly express this thanks here [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This thanks in particular to the auxiliary organizations used, such as fire brigade, red cross, German army and many others, especially the public service, i.e. street championship, Gendarmerie, municipality, EVN et cetera. Very many colleagues, including private companies, were in service around the clock practically 14 days. They've done something superhuman. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, but I would like to thank the colleagues of the forestry service. The colleagues from Wildbach cultivation from all over Austria were concentrated on the disaster zone. Throughout – practically over the weekend, also Saturday and Sunday – was extremely targeted and worked with high pressure. In a very short time, a provisional infrastructure has been built, the most severe damage has been fixed and a situation that has been somewhat tolerable. Own initiative and wealth of ideas were impressive. The people have seen all of this with special satisfaction, and I can very much thank you at this point for this commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The 2000 budget provides for 7.25 million schilling for construction measures for the flood-hazardous areas of the Pittental. I would like to thank the Minister for this very, very much. At the same time, I would like to thank him for really responding spontaneously last year and helping the people concerned with the necessary measures. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I wish that this year we would be spared from disasters of any kind. But if something happens, it will be provided – also through the 2000 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7682	The next speaker was Mr Kurzbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7703	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to refer very briefly to Mr Wimmer's comments, who spoke of gifts to agriculture, and I would like to point out the diesel oil price because he has referred to it very specifically. You all know, ladies and gentlemen, that our farmers pay about 70 percent higher diesel prices than the EU average. And a second area, also referred to as a gift, is the increase in the turnover tax from 10 to 12 percent. We all know that since accession to the EU in 1995, producer prices have been significantly reduced, but farm prices have not fallen in this respect. It is therefore legitimate that there should be an approximation for agriculture, since it has long been due. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenitsch.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to focus on rural development and rural areas in my speech. We note that rural areas are becoming increasingly important. The European Union has also taken this development into account, and a total financial framework of EUR 42.3 billion was provided in Agenda 2000 for the years 2000 to 2006. For Austria alone, it is around 10 percent respectable 4.3 billion euros. I should like to express my appreciation and my warm congratulations to the Minister for Agriculture, because we have already heard this today - we have 10 percent of the funds for rural areas and manage around 2 percent of the area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This rural development is a huge opportunity for the future and also brings additional income to many farms. In addition to traditional conventional agriculture, more and more farmers are able to generate additional income, and also show the willingness to provide land-based farming. And so, ladies and gentlemen, Austrian farmers are committed to the production of agricultural quality products. The rural area, however, is increasingly becoming a recreation area, a cultural area, and in the end, the rural area is economic and living space. I therefore welcome any initiatives that have a positive impact on rural development. Let me give you an example: In the previous year, the Farmers' Federation together with the economy founded the initiative "The Land must live", and this initiative is primarily used to raise awareness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I welcome another initiative by the Lower Austrian farmers, which is currently in the headlines in the "Kurier": "Farmers advertise for new customers", "Minimolkery supplies 4 500 children", "Farm markets as a customer hit" or "day of the open door". My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! These are all positive measures to develop rural areas accordingly. But now an example of the church. The communities are making an increasingly valuable contribution, and they also have a high responsibility when it comes to the area of spatial planning. This is a particularly sensitive area. We have already heard that around two thirds of the public investment is being made by the municipalities, so the municipalities also make a positive contribution to job security. I would also like to give an example from my community in the field of biomass. In the last three years we have provided 84 apartments, a four-group kindergarten, a 16-class public school and two ordinations by a district heating cooperative, with the hacking goods coming from the farmers, and thus the community also makes a valuable contribution. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now I'm at the financial balance. It was also reported today. I would also like to make a comparison here and bring some figures from my own community. According to the last census of 1991, our community has 6 147 inhabitants, which results in a per capita quota of 6 466 S. If we had more than 10,000 inhabitants, this figure would increase to 8 082 p.m. In our example, this results in a false amount of 9.9 million schillings, ladies and gentlemen, my dear ladies and gentlemen. 9.9 million schilling for your own community! Another example: We know that the second residences do not count in the financial compensation, but only the 1 864 second residences result in a failure of 12 million schilling. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! These examples show that it is very important to change this financial key during the forthcoming financial compensatory negotiations. Otherwise, we would like to give our support to budget agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7791	The next speaker was Mr Pistotnig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7813	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In these many hours, no one has talked about the forest. But this discussion will be about the budget chapter of agriculture and forestry, and I will allow myself to lose a few words about the forest. It seems that no one has ever been worth a word, because the forest is not a problem for the budget. Only 1 percent of the agricultural budget, around 250 million schilling, is the budget for 4 million hectares of forest. These 4 million hectares of forest in Austria are stocked in such a way that some 160,000 hectares of the forest need to be rehabilitated, of which 90,000 hectares are in need. 70,000 hectares have already been included in projects, but unfortunately God’s money is missing here too. We can say that the forestry industry also has an essential part and a little bit to do with the best possible means of rehabilitating this budget. So it should be, because if you don't earn the money before, you can't invest it afterwards. I think it will be so far in two, three years that we will have money available to clean up the forest that is so important to us Austrians. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] After all, the forest in Austria brings a value added of 27 billion schilling per year, which is equivalent to tourism. But to be able to maintain the forest, of course you also need roads. There are 43,000 kilometres of public forest roads and 108,000 kilometers of private forest roads in Austria. These 108 000 kilometres of private forest roads cover some 11,000 to 12,000 hectares of land and have cost the owners around 55 billion schilling of investments. The conservation costs of these forest paths are around 300 million schilling per year, financed and borne solely by private individuals, Mr Kostelka. But that's a good thing. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Did they not get any promotion?]] If you are now asking if there is no promotion, I can tell you: Of course, parts of the forest roads are supported. But you have to imagine that 3 000 kilometers a year must be built, that is, 30 000 kilometres per year over the next ten years. Calculate what it costs! There is 250 million Schilling funding per year, including advice, including conservation forest renovation, including high-layer forestry. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! No one has thought he might have built a house with housing support because you have received a promotion, go into this house and live in your living room. With this small promotion are just paid the building costs of the owners. Every year, however, taxes and so on must also be paid for the way through this forest that everyone is allowed to use. But it's very good that you remind me. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] We'll give the forest to anyone seeking relaxation. In the forest, however, one not only finds relaxation, but also stores water. The forest is very important from the environmental side. He's filtering air, and he's filtering dust. But you must not overload the forest, because if the forest is overloaded, we all soon have nothing left of the forest. That is why I cannot imagine – you said this, Mr Kostelka, and there is a request for it – that the forest areas, some 108 000 kilometres, should be opened to mountain bikers. Thus, the economy between forest and man and between forest and animal will not work. The forest also needs a little rest. Apart from that, it would not be legally possible. First, we would have to measure the entire road network, we would have to transfer it to the public, and then, in the forest, the traffic regulations would apply. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! For every forest owner, the forest is not one thing it operates out of loud Gaudi, but the forest is for the forest owner workplace, camp and so on. The forest path serves to preserve the forest, so that in the near future you too can wander, move and enjoy it from the Social Democratic Party in the forest.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7868	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Count. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7890	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is our environment? – Our environment is the world that surrounds us. Our environment is the world in which we live. Once destroyed, it is irrevocably lost. Once destroyed, it is irrevocably lost for us and the subsequent generations. Climate change is a very long-term but very thorough process. Ladies and gentlemen! But even here – perhaps not here in this plenary room, but outside in the Vestibulle – we notice that it always goes upward for the season with the temperature. This morning's news reflected the precarious situation: There has not been a single drop of rain in Austria for about six weeks, so there will be very marked harvest losses, which will at least represent an estimated 60 percent in the stone field. The population of the northern European countries is exposed to a strong risk of skin cancer by the increasing ozone hole across Poland and should only go out with protective clothing, according to an EU expert statement in recent weeks. What causes this? – Due to greenhouse emissions and the increasing CO2 content in our atmosphere. Austria – and thus also the last federal governments – has joined some international agreements in recent years, which I would like to list here only on a tax basis: Toronto target, climate alliance, Agenda 21, the 5th. EU action programme, the Austrian Federal Constitutional Act on comprehensive environmental protection, the Federal and Länder Waste Management Act, the Ozone Act, the National Environmental Plan, the Land and Urban Development Programmes and various municipal agreements on the international climate agreements. These international objectives are currently of particular importance to climate policy objectives, especially in view of the need for the implementation of the Kyoto target of minus 8 per cent climate-related gases for the years 2008 to 2012 based on 1990 emissions and minus 13 per cent in the context of the EU-Burden-Sharing. So I expressly welcome the objectives and the concluded agreements of the last federal governments, so much so that the current development is very contrary to the objectives set. The number of main residences heated with oil and gas alone increases by about 75 000 units per year. However, the number of CO2-neutral wood and biomass heating is reduced by around 5 000 units, bringing about 3 million tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. The increase in fuel consumption results in an additional increase of 800 000 tonnes. CO2 emissions have averaged around 60 million tonnes in recent years. Mr Oberhaidinger mentioned the last figure of 66.8 million tonnes. According to the Toronto target, which still serves as a base, they are to be reduced by 15 million tonnes to 45 million tonnes within eight years. The total energy consumption of Austria in recent years was around 1 200 petajules. Of these, about 75 percent are fossil energy sources, resulting in about 20 million tonnes of oil equivalent in emissions. To remember: Every million tons of oil equivalents are emitted about 3 million tonnes of CO2, so that the said sum of approximately 60 million tonnes of CO2 is generated. Based on the experience gained so far, the potential of the various renewable energy sources and the potential for energy saving and energy efficiency improvement, the Austrian Federal Government has made a very ambitious programme to implement the reduction of CO2 emissions by 15 million tonnes for Austria. This starts with energy saving. 30 percent are for the increased use of biomass, which can result in a reduction of about 1.5 million tonnes of oil equivalent. Many of these points have already been mentioned by my previous speakers. I would just like to stress the need to link agriculture with the environment once again. As you can see, a large proportion of biomass comes from agriculture. Therefore, the principle applies "Without farmers no life" also for renewable energies. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was therefore important and correct to unite the entire environmental promotion in one hand. Mr Molterer has already shown that he has been able and will continue to take direction for renewable energy sources. New budget chapters 18 and 61, new environmental and environmental measures have combined the necessary environmental promotion measures into a concerted action. A commitment framework of 475 million Schilling has already been reached for the operational environmental promotions. In addition, the ecologisation of housing will trigger a further 1.5 to 2 billion schilling of investment. The EU has a total area of, of,,,,, and,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. On 20 March 2000, at the request of the European Parliament, Hans Kronberger, Member of the European Parliament, a further doubling of renewable energy sources from 6 per cent to 12 per cent, confirming this environmental offensive in the EU unanimously. I particularly mention the word 'unanimously', i.e., also with the votes of the Social Democrats and with the votes of the Greens in the EU, this initiative by the mandater Kronberger was confirmed. This means that the share of renewable energy in Austria needs to be increased from currently 11 percent to 21 percent, which means that future activities, as you have called for, must also be doubled. One more point: Carinthia has per 1. In May, the first federal state to impose import tariffs on renewable energy sources in a significant amount. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In other federal states these already exist, but not at that height as in Carinthia. Thus, the electricity from biomass with 2,10 S and the electricity from biogas is refunded with up to 1,80 S. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek stated here in the House about three hours ago that the Greens still have the full environmental competence. Some SPÖ representatives have also expressed their support for the implementation and increased use of renewable energy at various events in recent weeks. You will not find a single budget approach in the chapters 18 and 61 to be decided, which will not meet the demands you have made. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my appeal to you: I urge you to jump once over the shadow of the total opposition and to give your consent to these environmental chapters! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7977	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7998	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Allow me to finish this debate shortly before the end of my 56-year-old Uralt Police Body. Drag it out. I'd like to do this all the more, as well as sit down some other old police bodies here. For example, I look at only colleagues from Vanner or colleagues from Van der Bellen – this is my vintage – and they are also relatively old political bodies. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Of course, it could also be that colleague Glavischnig meant something else, that she did not mean the physical fitness, but the word "old" in terms of political thinking. And I'll bet she might be right. I am a follower of this outdated, horrific thermal waste recovery theory, which I will probably attach to up to my end of life. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Thermal waste disposal!]] I hope that the Federal Minister will also remain consistent on this line and that we will only deposit things in 2004 that are no longer responding. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] That is what I am calling myself, and I am well known as an archival politician, and I carry it with dignity. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Doppelmüller! It's modern!]] But I am also pleased that my father's enemy, Klubobmann Khol, is sitting here, which has helped me to receive media attention. Unfortunately – I have to tell him – this has happened falsely, because he has praised me for something I can't do for. Mr Brix said he was negotiating today. He might have been the one with the stables. So that once again – we have done this more often – we clear this fairy tale from the world that several very important environmental laws have failed in the SPÖ, I say: I could refer to the newspaper "Environmental Protection", in which this is very clear. It was true that there was a very broad draft, which – Mr Khol, you know that very well – was pushed back and forth as a ball between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economics. Nothing's gotten out of it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Failed it's here!]] And then in the short term, one, two weeks before the end of the legislative period, one has put aside the whole big draft and brought in a new draft that was unreasonable. On the other hand, Mr Brix has rightly resisted and prevented this. I am proud of the fact that we have rejected this draft – I am afraid that it is identical to that which is now present here – because one should do something in environmental policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] – I will explain this to you once again as part of a private body. Mr Pumberger! I always knew you had to explain this more and longer. Let's get together. I've always noticed that this is a little difficult for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hope that I will no longer have to explain Mr Prince from Upper Austria, from the Mühlviertel. He has also spread the happy message that steps can now be taken that have so far failed on the resistance of the SPÖ. I think he did better than Mr Pumberger. In fact, it is about making laws here – including from the point of view of the economy or industry – and not about whipping through anything or by means of a law preventing anything. On the contrary, it must be said very quickly to the affected economy in investment law or in the EIA, you can do this or you can't do it. That is, I believe, the central point, that one should concentrate on it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He learned something!]] It was quite funny for me, Mr Khol, that speakers in your group, in particular, tried to disprove your statements with all the distortions. They have actually said that there was no time for environmental policy in these hundred days. I also thought that this was an overburdenment, and this statement has been partially re-examinationed today. I also believe that we have here a programme of the new government, which includes quite a lot of things to do. The big litters are announced a biterl. I also wonder if the financial resources will be available. – Minister! I do not necessarily envy you, especially when I think that you have inherited the replacement from the Minister of the Interior. Whether the Minister of Finance will leave you the money or take the money out of the old-age recovery stop, I do not know yet, you will certainly support Mr Schweitzer in this regard. I also believe, as Mr Lentsch has said, that old-age rehabilitation will be a very important task in the next few days. Again: It's not an exaggeration of big throws. It also hurts me that the Ministry of the Environment no longer exists in itself, because it also had a certain signal effect. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: There is no longer any Doppelmüller as an environmental speaker!]] – There is no longer the Doppelmüller as an environmental speaker. Mr Graf! Why shouldn't my party chairman make a personal development, as she's been running your party chairman for decades? – You have to try this too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] New times need new heads, there's nothing in there. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Jörg Haider – the model for the SPÖ!]] Doppelmüller is still, even if he is no longer in the Committee on the Environment, as a normal Member of Parliament, an environmental politician and from my professional point of view I am. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Jörg Haider – the model for social democracy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer has looked at Haider's personnel policy!]] I shall certainly bring in my ideas on environmental policy, which do not cover up with those of Mrs Glavischnig. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wanted to say a little more to the farmers and to the importance of the farmers for environmental protection, but I am saving that. I do not want to hurt Mr Schwarzenberger any more today.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8182	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8203	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to use my full speaking time, although, of course, I am interested in both agriculture and environmental policy. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] The comments made by Mr Molterer, by Mr Schweitzer, by Mr Kopf and, finally, by Mr Doppelmüller, point out that, in this House as a whole, the importance of environmental policy in Austria is flexibly, clearly and very excessively defined. Minister Molterer! You meant it'd come to you every word and every formulation. That is why I would like to give you once again in your words and in your wordings on the ground of concrete real policy. They spoke of the challenge in agricultural policy, but also in environmental policy. They spoke of impulses, you spoke of framework conditions, you also spoke of a distribution debate that you want to address, you also spoke about the consumer's claim for cheap food, and you said that we do not need an action plan because we make practical policy and highlight sustainable development in terms of efficiency in environmental policy. My short summaries are literal quotations, and I should now like to make very specific comparisons with your specific actions and actions. I have the impression that, not only in agricultural policy, not only in environmental policy, but also in this policy of the government, there is a new interweaving of words, of beauties, of verbal disguises about this republic, which are very capable of overcoming the actions, the concrete expressions, the concrete actions of this policy. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] What are you doing – that is now my final question – in order to meet these challenges? – You don’t want action plans, and that’s for me the sample of nails. Action plans are always the measure, are always the criteria catalogue for how far policy is capable of action. We need action plans and not just words on sustainability, the challenge of ozone reduction et cetera, et cetera. And I owe you a lot of things to do. Mr Schweitzer said: This government will demonstrate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and otherwise by the decisions in the plenary session that it will take action. – I have not heard of any concrete action! I have heard statements of intent, I have heard words, but I have not heard of any concrete political implementation – whether with regard to agricultural policy or with regard to waste management policy. Yes, it is necessary – also Colleppelmüller has repeatedly said this in internal circles – to reform the packaging regulation! Did I hear a promise from your side today? Did Mr Schweitzer say yes, we have to do something about the packaging regulation? – You, Mr Minister, have said that something has to be done in the Waste Management Act. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: With regard to the regulations!]] - Yes, by the regulations. But you didn't say at the packaging regulation. The concrete is always in the foreground for me, because I hold it with Bertolt Brecht, who said: The truth is concrete. I would like to put my thumbs on that again and again. I have to put my finger on this wound, because it is about the concrete implementation points, including in anti-atomic policy. Federal Minister! You said yes, the Council of Ministers took part, as Temelin did, in this environmental impact assessment approach. What did you say to the heads of state? What did you say to the delegation that came to you from Upper Austria? – This delegation has returned home more or less inaccurate things. And here again the old discrepancy has become clear, which was always visible in the government and in this politics in Vienna and is, especially in the anti-atomic field. Only words have been put into space more or less again, general explanations have been made, but the concrete steps are always lacking. Mr Schweitzer. With a delay of half a year, the Prague delegation, the Czech delegation of the Environment Committee, will come to Vienna. For the autumn it was hoped for, now it is already starting to be June, and now Temelin is almost finished anyway. I mean, these are the realities, and you always save yourself with very flowering words. Mr Kopf – because you are also on your head – you have spoken about rural policy. They're environmental speakers! I would have expected more from you as environmental spokesperson of the ÖVP. They have said that environmental support for farms is very central and businesses are quite progressive in the European comparison, as is the case with environmental measures. I underline that. On the other hand, you are the one who puts on the brink of the rights of the people, the citizens and the citizens' initiatives in the EIA-laws-novelles-projects. Please ask the environmental attorneys! They're going to tell you that the locals are the best guaranteers of an efficient environmental policy. These are closest to the problems, they feel them on site and are those who can get excited. But if you are robbing them of the legal instruments with the EIA's novelties provided for by you, then you are deficient of environmental policy in Austria, as it were! – Yes, that’s it! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Sexist!]] Unfortunately, I had to use this very plausible expression, but in this context it seems very justified to me. Something else to your remarks. They talked about ElWOG. Please: The ElWOG is also a nail sample for environmental policy. They're heading for ecostrom certification. You have certainly read the comments in the "standard" for this. It says: The certification is a crutch, essentially fixed feed rates. Example Federal Republic of Germany: fixed import tariffs. With this, you help the wind power, so you help the solar energy, so you also help other small power plants and so on. With this, you really put Austrian energy policy on ecological legs! But you don't seem to want these legs, or it's too insecure for you. Why don't you go the German way? – That would be a concrete environmental action. Please, do this! Swinging You don't say big words, but do something! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, so that I remain faithful to my promise not to take the full speaking time out. Mr Minister, we are discussing the budget. Mr Minister, you are now also responsible for environmental policy. Minister, you led the National Parks. My colleague pointed out the economic impact of the national parks. I was back in the Hintergebirge on the weekend and experienced this on site. Why, for budgetary reasons now, Mr President, do you have the right to light up the lamb? Why have you given up the discretion to the funding of the national parks, which is, as it were, just as it were, just as constitutionally anchored in accordance with Article 15a? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] They finance the grants for the national parks from the discretion of your environmental budget. And at whose cost is that going on? – This is at the expense of environmental support, at the expense of NGOs’ grants, at the expense of subsidies for environmental groups that really work on the ground. I'll finish. In my opinion, it is a need for the Austrian national parks to be taken into account in regular financing. They do not fit into the discretionary room, for the discretionary room should be a juggler mass rather than the core of environmental policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8293	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8323	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have made a brief statement once again because it seems very necessary to inform you of some observations from today's debate on agriculture. First point: The President of the Lower Austrian Chamber of Agriculture has not spoken on this budget chapter today. I think that is particularly remarkable, ladies and gentlemen. He would certainly have been able to tell us some interesting things about the current application overhangs for investment support in Lower Austria. This would have been a subject that would have been worth discussing in the context of a budget debate. That was one, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: Mr Weinmeier has come here to this pult and has tried to counter the Greens any requests et cetera. Mr Weinmeier! You have not made a single request in this legislative period, nor have you made a single request. Please, come on You're in front of your own door! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now allow myself to comment briefly on some of the paradigms of this budget debate, as the Minister has done. I think this is urgently necessary. He spoke here of the Triangel of the forces of the market, of social and environmental conditions. I can follow him as far as I can. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that still arises is: What's the policy for? What is the environmental and social orientation of agricultural policy for? The answer, Mr Federal Minister, has remained your fault. Why? – This is the second major challenge. They spoke of the changes in agriculture in Europe. Of course: There are not only ecological but also sharp competition challenges. I can't disagree with you. But, ladies and gentlemen, as a Minister of Agriculture, you have been responsible for this challenge for years, including within the framework of the EU Agriculture Council. EU agricultural positioning – liberalisation and orientation on the world market instead of the internal market – is this challenge. With this, on the one hand, you are running structural change at EU level, and in your own country you are trying to present organic farming as a top priority. Federal Minister! That's a lip confession! And why is it a lip confession? – Because it represents an instrumentalisation of organic farming. They say: "Bio is pointed!" – Of course, everyone says that! But you are not prepared to make this "tip" a broad concept for the Austrian agricultural policy. Organic farming is not just a "tip", organic farming is the standard of a good agricultural practice. Let me conclude by explaining why. Bio-agriculture not only produces healthy food and is not only the best solution for groundwater protection – in this area you are sumptuous, you know it; I only remember the EU-Nitrat-complaint – but, thirdly, organic farming is also the best contribution to active climate protection, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8375	Mr Weinmeier spoke in favour of an actual correction. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8400	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber said that I had not made any requests here yet. – This claim is untrue, as unfortunately so much that comes from the Greens. That's not true! I have already tabled several requests and requests – I will give you the statistics, Mr Commissioner – and a question on animal transport just a few minutes ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8430	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mr Speciale, want the final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the opinion group VIII of the Federal proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapters 18, 60 and 61 of the Federal Proposal, together with the part of the economic compensatory estimate in 60 of the Supplements to Chapter 60. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. – This is the majority, and it is accepted. Advisory Group IV Chapter 11: Internal (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8479	We are now reaching the IV Advisory Group, Internal Affairs. The Special Rapporteur waived the oral reporting. Mr Leikam has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8507	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian executive has truly had to face new challenges in many areas since the fall of the Iron Curtain. And it has really met these challenges, such as the increased flow of refugees, the increase in organised crime, the global drug trade or the implementation of the Schengen Treaty. But only an optimal personnel and technical equipment as well as the tireless use of the officials have ultimately contributed to Austria being still one of the safest countries in the world. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! We offer security to people in our country when we extend the concept of security, if we no longer only understand personal security, but if we all together also increase or secure the future prosperity of our country, if we create jobs and ensure that the social network does not become more bleak for people, and if we help to ensure that young people in our country are given free access to education. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser has left the government bank for a short time.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where is the Minister?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – I too would like the Federal Minister on the Government Bank.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8586	Mr Grabner! I urge you to stick to your duties. – I strongly urge you to stick to your duties. [[Abg. Grabner: Nothing you can warn! That must be clear to you if you have the chair! What do you want to do?! What do you want to do?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Unheard of how Mr Grabner is acting there!]] Please continue, Mr Leikam.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8654	Federal Minister! It might be appropriate to point out the following. It has happened more often and even today, that the Federal Ministers of the Federal Government are demonstratingly negated the representatives of the opposition here at home in the form that they leave the government bank during their speeches and do not listen to them either. I believe that this is a custom which has not yet been in this House, and we strongly protest against it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It may be unpleasant to you, Minister of State, for you to listen to members of the opposition, but you will have to get used to it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kiss and Mr Jung.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I said how we imagine security policy. So it was, at least so far, ladies and gentlemen. However, for the present and the future, Mr Kiss, I see for Austrian security policy black or, even better, blue-black! With the 2000 budget, it will certainly not be possible to continue the so successful security policy so far. Ladies and gentlemen! The former federal government also had to save. She has also faced the Austrians with two savings packages, which was ultimately painful for the citizens of our country. But the Minister of Finance did not, as it is now, put the savings measures across all the departments, but it was of course that the Minister of the Interior and the former Minister of Finance agreed that security should not be saved, that the budget for security has been expanded from year to year. Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time in many years, there has been a budget for which no enlargement can be seen but, on the contrary, a dramatic reduction in expenditure and in internal security. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Mr Kiss and Mrs Partik-Pablé! What have you criticized the former government and the former Minister of the Interior! What you have called for from the speaker's desk – sometimes rightly, very often with injustice! Even the missing paper baskets have sometimes been criticized here or – as I see Mr Platter in front of me in particular – the too wide belts. The belts too wide were a detailed issue in the last speech on the budget of the honourable Member Platter. The pepper spray didn't work, other Members criticized. And the uniform pants wouldn't have fit some executive officers. – These were the "great problems" of the Austrian security policy of the former government. What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties? What are you doing? Do you hear anything about the substance of Austrian security policy? - Nothing. They take note of everything. You even now defend something you would never and never have defended! They do this out of party discipline, but ultimately all this is carried out on the back of the executive officials in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! They cut down the number of police planning posts, which are very dramatic. They're cutting off at the Federal Army planning stations. They're cutting in the administration. They're shortening at the Bundesasylamt. They are very dramatic in terms of expenditure. Your government, ladies and gentlemen, is seeking a pension scheme which, of course, affects executive officials. They are supposed to work longer and are also confronted with discount payments. And you also want to burden the executive officials already in retirement with higher contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The statistics in the field of road fatalities this year are terrifying! Unfortunately, there is again more traffic deaths in our country. And what does this government do? What's the Minister of the Interior doing? – It reduces the number of road traffic monitoring stations. There will be no more personnel for traffic monitoring in the future, but less! We think that this is a really unthinkable way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the ADONIS radio system, Federal Minister. The preliminary work on this was carried forward very far by your predecessor. It was intended when we were still in the government to expand this network throughout Austria over the next four years. Mr Kiermaier will address this in a very detailed way. – No schilling is included in your budget, Minister of State! ADONIS ade!, you can only say there. There's no longer in your area. Or, the rescue. A fixed and finished package has been placed on the table by your predecessor. You didn't sign it! The invitation to tender has expired, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Young: You have to be able to pay it too!]] The financing was also negotiated! The funding was also clarified! I myself participated in several rounds of negotiations with the federal representatives. The federal states were willing to pay much more for the end of the flight rescue because they are ultimately also obliged to carry out the rescue in the federal states. The private insurers were willing to pay more. But you didn't sign this act. You won't get rid of the feeling that you don't want the rescue in this sense anymore. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or: civil service. A Member of the SPÖ will also address this in greater detail. What you're trying to achieve is that you can't stand in the room. Ladies and gentlemen! Since I am the first speaker this time, I am already curious about how the Members of the Government will express their views on this draft budget. If that is the case, Mr Kiss and Mr Jung, as has been done in committee, then you can only say good night, because then you have given up the executive. Paul Kiss referred to in the committee – I quote – as follows: Does saving still apply to you from the Socialist Group? We do not cut the money out of the window in the truest sense of the word, when we made our demands for more staff. – For him it is in the truest sense of the word to throw the money out the window if you need more staff! Dear Member Kiss! I can also read from your press release of 10. August 1999 quote – then still under another minister – and they remind you. In this it was said: 500 gendarmen have to come here for the Burgenland alone! The ÖVP makes it a basic condition in the government negotiations, without which nothing goes, unless these 500 officials in the Burgenland come in addition. And that's not enough. In the interior, we also need 500 gendarmes. This is a fundamental condition for the ÖVP, otherwise we will no longer talk at all during the party negotiations. - Quote. Mr Kiss! Where's your demand today? – I’m curious about what you’re going to say at the speaker’s desk today. Now to you, Mr Jung, and to your objection to the legitimate demand for the ADONI radio system. They said: It's over with the technical games now, ladies and gentlemen! They said we don't need this ADONI radio system. [[Abg. Young: I didn't say that!]] – With the technical players it is now over, you have literally said. – This means of communication, which we urgently need, are only technical players for you. [[Abg. Young: 4 billion we really don't have right now!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They have adopted the security policy. I say again: After many years, this is a budget with dramatically less money for the Austrian executive, and this will naturally have an impact. Ladies and gentlemen, with the present budgetary measures, the legitimate demands for an efficient and powerful safety executive, which ultimately ensures the safety of people through their daily work and is able to successfully combat all forms of crime, will probably not be implemented. Think about what you're doing here!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8772	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8793	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, I had expected the SPÖ security speaker – since yesterday he has been installed – to take the floor as first speaker. [[Abg. Young: Not implemented yet!]] But colleague Jung gives me the keyword: He doesn't seem to be involved yet. He is still in the warm-up round and will probably speak as one of the last socialists. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Young.]] But we are also grateful to Mr Anton Leikam, the chairman of the Committee on the Interior. He gives us, he gives me the opportunity to get into the drawer very deep and remove all the documents that were rejected at the time when the Socialists put the Interior Minister when we were in negotiations with them. At that time, the Socialists have countered these agreements by means of a clear and clear "Njet" by the Socialist Minister of Finance. I will be able to disprove you, Mr. Anton Leikam, in every single point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's start with a press conference that was held by the then socialist Interior Minister Karl Schlögl on 10 October. It's been a year this year. In this press talk on 10 October. He has said, of course, in the hope that there will be a federal government between red and black, about the following: I have prepared an ambitious programme with the Austrian People's Party, and I would like to implement this ambitious programme in the next few years. However, he has forgotten to say that this broad agreement with the EIA has not been reached on three essential points, because this broad agreement has failed with the clear and clear no of the Minister of Finance Edlinger. Interestingly, the Minister of the Interior could not prevail. And that concerns exactly those points that Anton Leikam is now mounting. I would also like to receive a letter from 10. Januarys of this year refer to the Federal President of the Chamber of the Executive, in which we say that for the ÖVP in a work programme with the SPÖ three wishes were essential, but all three wishes were not accepted by the SPÖ. First of all, the creation of 1 000 additional safety executive sites over the next four years. – Failure at the "Njet" of the Socialist Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen. Second point: the maintenance of the current system of air rescue with its synergies on the safety-related tasks of the aircraft deployment sites of the executive and the acquisition of ten new helicopters by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. – Mr Karl Schlögl, then Minister of the Interior! This project has also failed on the No of Edlinger, then Minister of Finance. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Third point: the implementation of the creation of an inter-organisational system in order to be able to make use of emergency and emergency operations efficiently, i.e. the ADONIS project; it is by Anton Leikam who is still assembled. – Failed to clear and unmistakable No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Karl Schlögl couldn't get through, and now Leikam comes out here and weeps a situation that you all caused in the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] And with crocodile tears that he sheds, with crocodile tears toward our "so poor" executive he says: There is much less money, and for 100 days this black and blue government has been in office, and of course there is less security! The opposite, Mr Leikam, is the case! 100 days blue-black federal government, 100 days of interior minister Strasser means 100 days more security for this country and its people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have brought here a graphic which is very easy to read and comprehensible and thus makes clear how much the arguments of Mr Leikam are not valid, but rather go beyond the facts. [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] The fact is that he, Anton Leikam, did not tell the truth in this context. I'll document this with this graphic, Anton Leikam. This is, in fact, the development of the rate of increase of the internal budget chapter, expressed as a percentage of the total budget. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is not perceptible from here!]] – Not perceptible? Sorry! – Also for the greens, so that it becomes more perceptible. [[The speaker keeps the graphic up well visible again.]] [[Contradiction of the Abg. Oillingers, as the lines are not recognizable at the distance.]] – Then come out and take it or look at it! I'll give it to you then. If you look at these graphics, you realize that, of course, there have been classic minus rates among socialist interior ministers, unlike Anton Leikam, over the past few years, in order to do the truth enough, there is an increase of 0.14 percent in the 2000 budget, in relation to 1999. – Little, but more and more. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Oils: 0.14 percent!]] But there has already been socialist interior ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Yes, really? Don't know any more!]] I suppose there was a socialist interior minister in 1997 and there was no increase at that time. What did he say? Did he possibly call Karl Schlögl, and was that his first year as an interior minister? So I wonder, What's true of what Anton Leikam said? – And I wipe it away: Nothing's true! I can disprove him with facts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With Ernst Strasser, with this ambitious programme of the new Federal Government, there will be more security for the population, and it is he who wants to relieve the safety executive from the ballast of desk work – as I believe – necessarily. There will be more security in the form that the executive is on the streets and on the squares. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's him who says, among other things: No closure of Gendarmerieposten! Who has it been, in the past ten years, closed some 200 Gendarmerie Posts, mainly in rural areas? Was it socialist Interior Minister? – I think so, ladies and gentlemen. Under Ernst Strasser – and I give this guarantee to him again – there will be no more closure of a single army post in Austria – unlike among the Social Democratic Ministers of the Interior! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One last point: The 100 days of Ernst Strasser also showed that there is a very ambitious programme in terms of reforms. Ernst Strasser introduced an intensification of the Tow Act in these days. We already have the government template in the house. There are more thrust sites – 100 new ones are in negotiation with the city of Vienna. Interestingly, this has never been achieved by socialist Interior Minister Karl Schlögl in the negotiations with the socialist mayor of Vienna, Häupl. Ernst Strasser comes, the black Minister of the Interior conducts negotiations with the red mayor of Vienna – and there are 100 places to push for the eastern region more! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I remember the novel to the Security Police Act on Advanced Danger Research. We will speak in this House with regard to the legally organized crime of Tacheles! I also remember the project assignment "Bundeskriminalamt". I think we're going a good way with Ernst Straster. 100 days of Ernst Strasser as Minister of the Interior for this country, for these people, means more security for the executive, for whose use I thank you most warmly, more.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8993	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9014	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is appropriate for the internal budget chapter, because it is about the budget to talk about numbers and figures, and I am very surprised – and now I have only received my criticism of the opposition and then only of the government – that the chairman of the Committee on the Interior, Mr Leikam, has devoted himself here exclusively to the supposed or actual cuts and intentions and has hardly found words on fundamental issues of security policy in Austria. [[Abg. Leikam: You probably weren't in there!]] I would like to do this briefly, Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I believe – and I am certainly not alone in this opinion, Mr Federal Minister, and just as I met you at the very beginning of your work, I would have been surprised to assume that you are also of this opinion – that the most important contribution to security in Austria is that of improving the quality of the building up of the trust relationship between the population and the Austrian security executive. This, Mr Federal Minister, has little to do with money, but it has to do with the fact that the people would like to have a confidence relationship with the security executive and wish for such a one, with two factors being fulfilled: on the one hand, to satisfy the subjective sense of security of the Austrian population and on the other hand to know that our police and Gendarmerie have all the means to intervene where it actually does need. [[Abg. Murauer: And also has!]] I mean "intervention" in the truest sense of the word. This is also about equipment in the sense of technology. But it is essentially about the subjective sense of security of the population, about meeting it, to pay particular attention to investing in the human quality and human resources of the individual officials. – Which does not mean that this will not also cost money or cost money if one offers the officials supervision, if one offers them the possibility of continuing training not only in the field of technology and handling of technical resources, but also this human potential – now I come back to it – in the truest sense of the word. Federal Minister! At the beginning, when you arrived and gave your initial statements, it sounded like it was the goal of your understanding of office. From the budget and from the measures that we have seen and read from your ministry and from you so far, I could only refer this hopeful praise to one area, namely your way of communicating about the media, and I have learned about the media, which sometimes has also been problematic about the demonstrations against this federal government, and thus also against you – in order to say it a little fashionable now. I say that from the point of view of the opposition and from the point of view of those who have demonstrated themselves in the middle – as I do. This is the area where I have no criticism, except – Mrs. Dr. Petrovic still speaks – at those points, but in the minority, where there have also been problems, but which are because they are in the minority and because they have been individual cases, are all the more in need of information. I would like to stress this here. I do not want to give you advice, but in the sense of the overall security concept in Austria would be In my opinion, it is well advised to devote intensively to these few problems – in the case of the police, it is quite common for them to talk about the "black sheep". [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to the point, which is completely contrary to what has been said so far, because – now I do not mean so much to the Federal Minister, but now I mean all those who represent the government and the governmental parties here – when you read and watch the newspaper and listen to it or here in Parliament, you somehow have the feeling, the horror of organized crime, which pervades all areas of life and society, is something that is all over Austria. With this constant panic, the subjective sense of security of the Austrian population is permanently devalued – now I come back to it. But not only does this panic affect the subjective security need of the population, but the police are constantly being devalued. You have demonstrated by figures in the security report presented to us by the Ministry of the Interior, and in the debate you have also demonstrated that the crime rate is falling in Austria, the Enlightenment rate is increasing, the police and the Gendarmerie are working very well – that is only the statistics now! – and I would like to thank you very much for this work that is being done there. But: It's being panicked all the time. Yes, please: Are the police and the Gendarmerie working well or not? Do these figures, which hardly lie, correspond to the truth now or not? Or are we in the situation, as especially of the FPÖ, but not only of the FPÖ, but also of the ÖVP, constantly claimed that these threat images of Austria have taken full advantage of? And now comes – next week we will be talking about the new instruments in the committee, which, if you can do as you want, if you don't have a government partner to hold back, will come up with advanced risk research. The advanced risk research is coming! But, Mr Federal Minister, the reform of the preliminary procedure, which is just as competent as that of the Minister of Justice, is not on the table. I haven't heard anything yet that belongs to the 100-day programme of the Federal Government or that one has a special hurry there. This, Mr Federal Minister, is all in contradiction with the image you have given as a person, because I have never heard a minister of the Interior, nor at all a politician in Austria, who, in such a short time – I have already told you – has taken the words "NGO" and "human rights organisations" into the mouth. But I have never experienced a Minister of the Interior, who, without drawing with the eyelashes, is in the same way damaging those NGOs that he views and appreciates in their work as you do, namely through the measures relating to the reduction of resources for civil service. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is an indissolubly contradiction, Mr Federal Minister, except you now offer five before twelve, or five after twelve, because the budget accompanying laws are already adopted, another possibility. [[Abg. Oils: After twelve!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Federal Minister, is what goes through my mind when I think about security in Austria. Or I come to another example, because today we are not only talking about Gendarmerie, Police and Technical Resources, but also about an area, Mr Federal Minister, for which you are responsible in the Interior, namely the so-called Foreign Affairs. This includes asylum policy, as well as azyl policy measures. Federal Minister! Don't you think about it, or do you think it's true if Karola Paul, whom you've certainly already met, is the regional representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Austria – but she's not only responsible for Austria – said – that I have read and heard – the NGOs take away damage from Austria every day? The sentence as such has several meanings in times like this. I now interpret him as referring, of course, to her field of work, namely the legal protection of refugees. That is what the UNHCR is dealing with, and I would expect you to comment on this in such a precarious political situation in which Austria is currently in. Personally, I would like to stress that, I believe, you can't really do anything for it, personally, as far as I know you. I don't know you inside and outside, but I have so much confidence in you that I mean you really can't do anything for it. But you are responsible for the restoration of this disasterd reputation of Austria. But the measures that have come out of your place in recent weeks are truly no help to make a contribution here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To quote once again Karola Paul, who says that the NGOs are turning off damage from Austria every day, and who thinks it is the NGOs that relieve the homelessness and distress of those in the area of Austrian tourism who are refugees and who are put on the streets. They know much better than I do that only 30 percent of asylum seekers are taken into federal care, and it is not only about the fact that there are so few, but there are also serious quality defects in the way they are cared for. There could now be a contribution to human policy, there could be a contribution to this civil society, which actually makes a contribution and which makes it without any regard to confession or political considerations. I'm just calling two big organizations: the deacony and the caritas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, Mr Federal Minister, I do not have the opportunity to ask Mr Bundeskanzler, because he is not here today. Obviously, he believes that he does not have to provide you with any protection aid, unlike yesterday in the case of Dr. Böhmdorfer's motion for a reluctance. But I will come back to you as far as this question is concerned. [[Abg. Young: You're not going to make a mistrust request again, are you?]] – No, no, not Mr Strasser! He has the opportunity today to comment on his previous statements in connection with Dr. Böhmdorfer. I would like to say something to the Federal Chancellor. Today we were told that he was on 15 May. In his "redness to the nation" on the occasion of 45 years of the state treaty, he quoted the Sermon on the Mount. Should I quote a sentence from the Sermon on the Mount? [[Abg. Murauer: There are several!]] Perhaps Mr Murauer; Mr Strasser, I am convinced that she knows very well. There is a truly sensible sentence in this context – refugees and legal protection: Everyone's supposed to have an inn. May I really kindly and politely ask you to give us an interpretation of this Sermon on the Mount in connection with the miser of the homelessness of refugees in Austria? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How can this be interpreted by Christian-social politicians? – Not you have quoted the Sermon on the Mount, but your boss to say that a little simplified. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a third aspect of your work on tourism: integration policy. Integration instead of a new move – you have taken over this lead from Minister Schlögl and at the time Minister One. I have often said that we can befriend ourselves – integration rather than re-entry. It's just the question of how this is interpreted. Like under Schlögl, "Integration instead of a new move" now also means under Strasser: Family merger "njet"? – Family merger, yes, on the paper, also the legal claim, but then quota management, as this means so beautifully technical, that there are many years of waiting? Federal Minister! In my opinion, this is inhuman, because it is against the spirit of the family unit, if, on the one hand, I give someone the theoretical right laid down in the paper, but then, in practice, put in place measures that totally counter-carry it. I know such cases. My son – he is three and a half years old today – has playingmates who, because they come from a country where you can also visit without a visa – for example Croatia – must wait for years for the family unit with the host worker father. There are all the conditions that the law rightly requires: Income, housing, necessary integration of the father – only the family is not allowed to come here because there is a quota management in Vienna. Application 1998, quota place 2001. – Is that human? Is that compatible with the Sermon on the Mount, I wonder? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is also a brief mention of the aspect: Should the family make it to unity, of course, there will be the insanity of non-working Allowance. My speaking time is about, but I think that I can talk about this for a very long time with regard to your place of business. Finally, one last question to Dr. Strasser. Dr. Strasser, "warning" you have been standing or standing in the APA on the protestous statements of Captain Haider, supported by Minister Böhmdorfer. "Awaiting", writes the APA, and you still want to look at it in detail – that is what it means. Decidedly he did not express himself, writes the APA. The APA can also write something that is not true, I say. The APA is not the Bible. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Unthinkable!]] – Mr Van der Bellen says: unthinkable. It's imaginable! That is why the Minister will have the opportunity to explain: What is "warning" if someone proposes the most massive intervention in the constitutional structure, in terms of free mandate and so on, which I have experienced in recent years? What are you waiting for here, and what do you want to see in detail? – You see, I am so fair and give you the chance before I condemn. This is my Sermon on the Mount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9161	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9183	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, a few words to my previous speakers. – Mrs Stoisits, you have given a deep insight today, not so much into your subject matter, which we already know, but into how you put together a human image. I've seen how one-sidedly you filter out your human image. They judge a person according to how often he uses the term "NGOs". After that, you will judge whether this is a "good" person or a "evil" person. That seems to me to be a bit remarkable. To another speaker, Mr Leikam. – We all have a certain understanding of the situation in which the SPÖ is at the moment. It is very difficult to defuse all that has been praised as first-class until recently. It is already necessary to have a tremendous elegance to add to this harsh criticism that you have expressed today on security policy, because in reality the big problems you have addressed – personnel problems, adonis system – are already "old" problems. I can remember: The then Minister and current Member of Parliament once answered an oral question, on my part, when at last a radio system that really works: This is not at all necessary, the radio system in Austria is definitely all right anyway. He has proved once again how completely next to it it stands. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: At that time it was still fine!]] Today, even you admit how urgently the Adonis system was! – That was two years ago, and it didn’t work back then. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: At that time it was still fine!]] If the Gendarmen in Lower Austria, in Gänserndorf and so on wanted to encourage reinforcement, they would have received the Czech taxi radio instead of their colleagues who needed it so urgently. But I have no difficulties at all now, because, even when we were in opposition, I have really dealt with security policy in a matter of fact, and I am now dealing with the policy of the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I can stay with my clear line I've always followed. - You shake your head, Mrs. Lichtenberger. They have been in Parliament for so long, I have been here in Parliament since 1983. We were in the government at the time, and I also expressed critical views at the time when Mr Blecha was still in office. So you don't have to talk about it at all, you just can't judge it. I'd like to tell you that. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I don't know!]] I also call on the Minister of the Interior to combat organised crime today, because in the past too little has been done. Although Mrs Stoisits claims that there is no organised crime. 30 percent of all punishable persons Actions are already organised crime. For Mrs Stoisits, there is only crime in road transport. In their opinion, it would probably have to be the demand "life-long must stay for life!" If a person commits only the slightest traffic crime. All other criminal acts obviously do not exist for Mrs Stoisits and for other greens. I also do not want the Minister of the Interior – like his predecessors – to constantly look forward to how great our crime statistics are and how safe Austria is, especially since the rate of crime is increasing over and over again. As before, I would like to pursue and do a very clear line in security policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Just as uncertain as you now criticise Mr Strasser's 100-day security policy from the SPÖ, it is just as uncertain if you claim that there is very little budget for the security sector. You know exactly – I have already told you in committee – that: There are almost as high budget resources as in previous years. [[Abg. Leikam: At... millions less!]] I do not criticise the Minister of the Interior that he has no longer recovered budget resources in the negotiations with the Minister of Finance. And although I do not criticise him because I fear to criticize him, I do not criticise him because I know that this budget is a savings budget and that it was simply not possible to get more out for the internal sector. It is well-known that this federal government has to deal with a debt mountain of 1.7 trillion schilling. Although this government has to save, it has nevertheless done enough to provide the security unit with at least the same amount for this area as last year. [[Abg. Leikam: Clearly less!]] [[Abg. May. Schlögl: 700 million less!]] I'd like to tell you something. This is in the interests of internal security, Mr Schlögl and the former Minister of the Interior. They know very well about social democracy and also about the Greens that the security of a country is also related to social security. That's exactly what you say over and over again. [[Abg. Leikam: I said that!]] Social security is guaranteed only if stabilisation takes place in this country, and stabilisation can only be achieved through a very strict budget discipline. And this one will carry out this federal government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you are talking about the management of the new Interior Minister, it is also necessary to say what has just failed in the past, and I have already said that in committee. No necessary structural measures have been taken in the Ministry of the Interior. Although there has really been a lot of money in the equipment – since security speakers from all parties have contributed a lot that we have achieved a high technical standard – but nothing has been changed on the system at all. It has hardly been cut down on bureaucracy. There has hardly been any structural change in the administrative area. The individual processes are often so complicated and labor-intensive that they devour a lot of money. I have also stressed in the Committee that not even reporting has been simplified. Not even a central reporting register has been built up, and this is wasting a lot of money. I already have to blame you, Mr. Ex-Federal Minister of the Interior Schlögl, but you were only briefly Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How long? Three years! He'd have had enough time!]] - Three years. That's a little bit! You can't believe that your predecessors have done nothing, but social democracy must already allow it to be said that it would simply have been necessary to create better structures in the interior area in order to be able to expand the budget in times when there is not enough money. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We have already talked about the need for huge savings in civil service. Unfortunately, during our last debate, God was such a whirlwind in Parliament that my arguments were hardly over come, so I would like to bring some of them again. For many years, it has been speeded up to all organizations, and they could still have civilian servants. In 1992, foreign services were introduced, for which civilians have been relocated. The big organizations have paid only 1,200 s for a civilian servant, the Red Cross, for example. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: They still do that today!]] The small clubs have been invited to the cash register, which paid 7 800 s. The organisations have built up their social service on civil service, and that was quite simply a misdevelopment. Firstly, everyone should have paid the same price, second, should have been provided for the food, and thirdly, one should have talked about the basic course for a long time, because the basic course, which costs about 35 million schilling, has been simply unnecessary for years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that civil service is really necessary. I know what civil servants in the old and disabled sector do. However, I also believe that an approximation with the present-day servants is justified, and I also think it is right that the Minister of the Interior has promised that he will ensure that the institutions are obliged to provide for civil servants, so that they can reach 43 s. But I am of the opinion – contrary to what the Minister of the Interior wants – that foreign service should be restricted only to the care of the elderly and the disabled, and that the peace service should simply not be sent to civilian servants. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Peacekeepers should take over those organizations that run the institutions. There's enough volunteers. Ladies and gentlemen! Staff savings are quite simply not enough. Here again, I would like to address the Social Democracy. They did not change the personnel situation at all in the previous year. Now, in the first 100 days of the new government, you have asked 25 questions as to how the personnel situation has developed in individual communities. In the four years before, there was no written request from you. I've been looking at this. You have to see how one-sided your policy is. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: No, this is not one-sided! 350 plans plus!]] Minister of the Interior! However, I would also like to say to you: If you save plan posts, please save on the administrative posts and not on the classified ones, on the "simples", on the "littles", because they come anyway in Devil's kitchen, which are as the first in the shooting field of the media and they also urgently need your support. You can see where the trend is going. In a request from Mrs Wurm, the death of an African in the judicial institution for young people is taken as an occasion in order to say again subversively that actually the executive is guilty of his death. [[Abg. Oils: South African!]] - South African, okay. The escalations in the demos are also presented as if not the demonstrators were guilty of it, but the police, although, for example, a response from the Minister of the Interior indicated that the demonstrators had called: "Put it on the cops with the rockets! What else do you have to throw? Take it all you can find. Stones or bottles, sausages, what!" – This shows: It's not the police, it's the demonstrators who want to use violence. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mrs. Stoisits was there!]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Here she said it!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Were you there?]] One more thing: It is also necessary to prevent judicial prisoners or police officers from getting younger than they are, just so that they can benefit from the Jugendgerichtsgesetz. This method is applied in all areas. Now an expert who uses the hand root bone examination and various other investigations to determine the actual age is simply labeled as a racist, and the method is considered questionable. – My colleague Povysil is a doctor, primary doctor, and she is using the hand root bone examination daily in children to determine age. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger! Scientists have found with a 100 percent certainty that the "Ötzi" was 47.5 years old when he died. And I'm convinced: If one can certainly see the age of a mummy, who is hundreds of years old, then one can surely see how old it is in a man now living. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Stop turning all that you don't like against your ideology into something that's against the executive! Minister! I think you need to be strong for the executive. It is not a question of praising the executive here in Parliament, just like the Greens, as Mrs Stoisits did, but then falling on questions about the executives and putting them up as the worst racists! Minister! You have a lot of work to do in this regard too!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9485	Next, Mr. Bundesminister, Dr. Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9507	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam, you know that I appreciate your work as chairman of the Committee on the Interior, that I also appreciate your contributions extremely much, just like all the contributions in both the Committee on the Interior and here in plenary, and I am sincerely sorry if the impression that I have not listened to your remarks with full attention. I'll take care of that in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Okay! Bravo!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: How "Haftlmacher" we will watch out!]] I have now heard the statements made by the representatives of all four parliamentary parties, and I must say that, of course, during the last half of the year there has also been a great change here. It is actually more than natural that the location determines the position, which is also clear from these four contributions. Of course, you are never satisfied with what you have achieved, and of course it is always so that it would be better to have more staff and more money at your disposal – that is not to question at all. I should also like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that we – and I am personally affected – are facing the situation here, that we – at least my knowledge – are the final light of Europe for the first time, and that – and I am saying this also because of high awareness of responsibility – my place will unfortunately also have a contribution to make that we can get away from this last position and at least again count among the first five, the first seven nations in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As the Federal Minister for the Interior, I become the President of the Rehabilitation Course that this government has to take. I think it is a very crucial question, especially when you think about the next generation, about the next, and about the next generation, that we are dealing with it today, not the morning, the future already today. I should like to speak on a number of points that have been raised in the debate. Point Transport Control. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not think we can do more than we can in the area of traffic monitoring. I have to thank the gendarmen and police who also do excellent work on weekends with increased traffic, for example to Easter, to Pentecost. Thank God, Mr Leikam, the statistics for this year promise a small relief. This is not a success of the Minister – just as it has been in recent years, I suppose, not so much a success of the Minister – but it is a success of the executive who is doing great work in prevention, and it is also a success of reconnaissance and cooperation with the media that have pointed out the circumstances in road transport. We will have to do much more in this area. This means reconnaissance, especially with the electronic media, but also with the print media, in order to draw attention, above all, to the responsibility they assume when they rise to the gas pedal. To Adonis. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'm not willing to give an instruction that says: We are now investing 8 billion schilling in a system that we ourselves operate. After all, when the system is finished, it is probably over-ageed, and we also do not know how to pay it. That's not the policy I'm pursuing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And so, by the way, in agreement with the negotiators, how I take away the outcome of the negotiations with the Social Democrats at the beginning of January, we have undertaken the Adonis project as one of the first, and we have adapted it accordingly. I also have to thank both the Director-General for Public Security and the Gendarmerie responsible, Mr General... – Strohmeyer, even a low-Austrian may happen once that a Styrian name does not immediately come into his mind; [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens:Strohmeyer!]] General Strohmeyer. They have made sure that we have implemented an adaptation of this system, that we are now starting a field trial in Burgenland to try this system out. Hopefully, together with the Blue Light organizations, we are also very quick to achieve the necessary knowledge to continue where the predecessors have started very, very responsiblely. I can also say very clearly to rescue flights: I am not willing to release an investment until I am not stunned and clearly explained why the ministry is losing money in an area where others make money. This is incomprehensible to me, I don't understand, and someone has to explain it to me first. I also say very openly to you: If as an authority we are unable to do this in a manner similar to other organisations – associations, even private ones – I am in favour of very serious discussion about transferring the task in such a way as to improve and facilitate customers when maintaining quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Two words on civil service: It's the first time we've ever seen it. ==References== In the last few weeks, we have had the opportunity to convene civilians in the first place, thanks to a rescue programme prepared by officials. I was just yesterday criticised in the "ZiB 2" that I had deleted those places that brought a lot of money and that the civilians had given to those who needed them the most, namely, Mrs Stoisits, the NGOs. For this I am, I am in favour of it, and I am going to fight it politically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A clear, open word to the staff: I took away from the already mentioned document by Mr Kiss – I was not there at the time – that the creation of 1 000 additional safety executive plans in the next four years was rejected by the SPÖ in the negotiations. This means that, unfortunately, no additional planning posts were added to the 840 planned posts deleted by the previous government in December. I freely agree that I did not succeed to the fullest extent, but after all, I was able to save from the 840 plots 420. That's just a partial success, but it's at least something you can show. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Stoisits! I have not invented the word 'foreign law', but I use the expressions decided by the National Council and contained in our laws. I would also like to express my clear support here in front of the House for the harmonisation of the right of foreigners with labour law. I strongly reject the statements made today by a so-called French expert in a French daily, in which he accuses the interior ministers Lösnak, Einm and Schlögl as well as section head Matzka of great xenophobia to foreigners. I think it's over. That's not fair and not all right. I don't care which party a minister belongs to. Foreign policy in our country has, in general, been done very well, and we are also in this government programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (in the direction of Abg. May. That's where you could have complained, Minister.]] I say to you, Madam Member, to your statement "Everyone should have an inn" very open: I can't imagine that at the best of will. If you find someone who can do this, call it me! – I can tell you very openly: If there were to be a migration movement and only one percent of the Chinese population wanted to emigrate, then a 10 million people could not make extreme contributions here. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The Chinese?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call to the Greens: It's about those who are here!]] If there were to be a large migration movement from the Russian region of Ukraine, we would not be able to make any corresponding contributions. It would simply not be possible for us to create shelter here for everyone. Those who demand this demand something impossible or move in an area of vision that is not accessible to me. I say this quite openly here in front of the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is the question of people's living together and the question of how a person has to leave his home country, his surroundings, his personal environment and go to the aliens is not only a question of Austrian foreign rights, that is a question of the international situation, and that is also a question of supporting and building the countries and the economy where these people live. Therefore, I am also opposed to the proposals that we suddenly create work or employment with "Green Cards" and all possible things here for those who, through their good training, can get their families there even by their good fortune in their home countries. I am also in this case in favour of the data commuting rather than commuting people, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Herbert L. Graf.]] I would also like to say this very openly and without a doubt, Madam President: Of course, there are injustices in the area of integration. Yes, it is. But – I am very happy to say this because the competent lawmakers have been sitting here and making their great contribution and because the previous governments and the previous ministers of the Interior have also done so –: We have two ways in the legislation to eliminate injustices: This is the one part of § 10 para. 4, which is the second of the Integration Advisory Council. I'll invite you to: Look You will find very few examples in the European legal world, where such precise, precise attempts are being made to remedy injustices that are admittedly committed to remedy them with the help of such instruments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But, Minister, it is about right, not about grace!]] I was determined not to brag with statistics. This is not the success of the Minister of the Interior, which is always the success of officials. The fact that we were able to record 32 arrests of suspects in the area of organised crime, which you were so plagued by international drug crime, which brought over large canals from Holland a week to the Vienna underworld, but also in the area of trafficking in human beings and in the field of arms scrapping – unfortunately Iranian, Turkish and Austrian citizens – is a great success of the Gendarmerie officials, police officers and the criminal service, which I also want to thank from this point of view. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Saving, efficiently redesigning, streamlining the processes, increasing speeds – yes, these are targets of our house. The guideline for police work is security and help. We are guided by three principles, and I say this very clearly and plausibly: We don't want to be "Rambos", we're not "Rambos", and we won't be "Rambos" in the future. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Reindl.]] We want to work according to the principle of proportionality and the principle of minimal use. That is why it is clear that we are paying great attention to prevention, but we must also be repressive when it is hard to do so. Here again, I say an open word: In a service operation of over 30,000 employees, it is unfortunately impossible to promise that no mistakes will happen. The joint task of the leading ladies and gentlemen of our home and the services in the countries is to minimise the sources of errors as far as possible. This works – and I can say this again, in detail on your contribution to the debate – through a very precise and targeted approach to the reception process, through excellent training of our gendarmerie and police students, through further training and continuous training. I would like to thank all those responsible for carrying out this responsible task very consciously, thank you very much! [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council.]] It is seven points that I will pursue very specifically and intensively with my employees in our home in the next few months. This is the clear implementation of the government programme that this government has undertaken in my area. First, the area of organised crime: Yes, I introduced the proposal to tighten up the legal provisions against towing in the Council of Ministers yesterday. I ask the House to agree. I believe that this is an important step in prevention. We want to continue to work in the field of push-over organisation, both in terms of the push-off places and the better organization in the resolution. We will intensify international cooperation, especially with our neighbouring countries. There have been very encouraging talks with colleagues in Bavaria, Slovakia and Hungary. In Bälde I will meet with the Slovenians, with the Italians and with the Swisss. My aim is that we can achieve similar good and intensive cooperation at both the Schengen and the external borders, as our German colleagues have already done. This brings the greatest security for our Republic and for our citizens. I brought in the Security Police Act with the advanced risk research, and I'm on it: We need this means, sharp and precisely controlled by the relevant law firm so that we can move on here. I will carry out a civil service reform on the heads and members. I do not want to mention that civil protection is a great concern to me. Finally, I will try to achieve a rapid completion of the work in the field of association and also in the case of the reporting register. They are necessary so that we can handle the elections and also the financial compensation accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9706	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9727	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiss, you have assembled the list of speakers from us at the beginning. Please, don't be angry with us, but the order of the speakers we decide! The fact that our former minister will have to say a lot at the end of the day is already marked by the current statements of words. – Just that it was said once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As regards the allusion to the Gendarmerie structural reform and to the post closures, as you have said, I must say to you: They were very much accorded with you! With the former security spokesman Pirker, if you had forgotten that, that would have been exactly the case! In addition, I would like to tell you that the system of the sector strips has been more than proven. You know that very well, because you know the situation. Today, when you talk to the people outside, you get confirmation that the industry has proved itself very well. It has been created in the course of this reform. I would like to say one more thing to Mrs Partik-Pablé, with regard to the questions raised here because of the minimization of the Gendarmerie Posts: Excuse me, but if there are fewer gendarmen around 181, it will be up to me and other Members to ask how many things will get less in their respective districts! That's my right, and I'm not going to argue with you either! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to report on the special topic "Funk" because I know that this topic is very important for executives and for the other blue light organizations. Those units that then need to be there fast and reliable when we are in distress need a good funk like a bite of bread. Not everyone knows what is meant by the word ADONI: This is a multifunctional radio system of superlatives based on the TETRA 25 European system – which is the common name for "Terrestrial Trunked Radio". [[Abg. Young: If you think you've explained this, you're wrong!]] – I will come to you, my colleague. – As far as radio is concerned, this system is the future both in the entire executive and in all blue light organizations. [[Abg. Boy: Now you've just gotten confused!]] Of course, for the layman the question immediately arises: Yeah, do we need that? Is that necessary now if we have budgetary problems anyway? - I'll say it right away: Yes, we need that very urgently! [[Abg. Neudeck: But, colleague, how does this work technically?]] The radio network of the Gendarmerie – you should know, ladies and gentlemen – dates back to 1964. The 2-metre band creates a range of 20 channels, the system ADONIS offers 800 channels. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] The criminal service works on devices of the brand aget, and every criminal – not only the criminals, but also others – is able to listen to everything that is happening on this medium. It can't be! The criminals, on the other hand, work with a brand year 2000. – Of course, this is not a state that we can accept. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also about the security of the officials themselves, and there are radio shadows. If anyone doesn't know: These are whole parts of the country where we have no radio reception. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] This is also of crucial importance for the self-protection of the gendarmes. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, 96 percent of the federal territory manages the Austrian federal army, which must also be said, and 66 percent of the population are affected by it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Ministry of the Interior has not slept all the years – Löschnak, Einm, Schlögl. I think we should look back – and I am calling on all those witnesses who came here together with me in 1990 and worked in the Committee on the Interior – and remember how the situation was. Calls You remember the Gendarmerie Posts and the police commissioners of the time, look at how the officials are equipped today, and don't stop at the previous ministers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To clarify something: In 1996, Mrs Colleague, the General Force Inspector under Minister pleaded for a uniform radio system. In the autumn of 1997, the Federal Minister for the Interior of Schlögl commissioned the involvement of the authorities and institutions responsible for security in the system. The intensive talks with the Red Cross, fire brigade, federal army, customs, justice and the mountain range began on 12 February. ==References== – These are the facts, Mrs. Colleague. You can't just walk away from this one! What are the benefits of the ADONI system? – Joint communication in the event of disasters, grouping of organizational groups in individual cases and integration into the telecom and mobile networks. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say something: If, like me, you've been in charge of the Amstetten city fire brigade for many years and you've completed all the courses until the higher fire training course, then you know what you're talking about. The radio between the extraordinary forces is a very essential thing, and therefore I absolutely cannot understand it if you put it as play. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a play! This is a necessary craftsmanship. It's actually clear – and everyone who was there knows what I'm talking about: If we had been involved in the flood disaster in St. Pölten, in which I also participated, or in the other major disasters at that time had a radio system that would have worked across the board, we would certainly have had much more success. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that the matter has now been resolved, Mr Federal Minister, and that, as you have said, the system now comes on a basis of the rental – as it always is. The system has to come! Ladies and gentlemen! As I told you, If the Gendarmerie has a brand year 1964, it has to buy again. If the Gendarmerie were to buy again, a new kind of radio equipment, then no one could communicate with another again, and that would be a disaster. It is therefore of crucial and fundamental importance that we now set the course for a radio system that benefits all blue light organizations and thus the population. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the year, I would like to express my full respect for all of the members of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. I can thank God for their excellent work, and I wish that this will continue even in the future, with a good radio network of the brand ADONIS! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9862	The next speaker is Mr Platter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9883	Mr President. Minister! Mr. General! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Toni Leikam, since you have opened the oppositional "bottom drawer", I would also like to make some comments on your problems you have addressed. [[Abg. Leikam: Please?]] [[Abg. Leikam: Now we don't talk about the..., now we talk about something else!]] I am very glad that our security spokesman has talked about the additional 1,000 planning posts, about ADONIS, but also about the acquisition of helicopters, and also about the fact that this has not been done only because of the veto of the SPÖ Finance Minister. [[Abg. Leikam: You know better!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Toni Leikam! I would also like to respond to other promises that have not been fulfilled, for example to the promise that there should be no saving in executive foreign service. The fact is: Since 1995, 649 plant sites have been deleted at the Gendarmerie alone. – Promise, but not held! The second point, dear Toni Leikam, was the announcement that the thrust sites in Lower Austria should be created: Announced, but not entered! [[Abg. Leikam:... Request answer from the Minister!]] Our Minister, Strasser, has already held the corresponding talks here. [[Abg. Leikam: Put on other plate!]] It has also been announced that the competence of the customs guard will be corrected: Announced, but not stopped! The SIAK has been announced over and over again. I can remember, there were floor sticks and the like. It was the last year that thanks to God was started with the architecture, but without budget and without having the additional planning points. [[Abg. May. Schlögl: But this will be done in autumn, Platter!]] It has been announced that in the area of federal police, Schwechat personnel should be increased. [[Abg. May. Schlögl: This will be done in autumn!]] Announced, but not executed! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I should like to make one more point on the advanced risk research announced before the election: I am already looking forward to the decision-making on the revision of the Security Police Act. There you are all invited to vote so that this extended risk research will come! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The problem has certainly not been Minister of the Interior Schlögl, who has worked very hard; the problem was not Minister of the Interior Lösnak – I am not talking about one thing – the problem is actually the heavy left-wing Klot of the SPÖ, through which it was not possible to pursue a reasonable internal policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this budget debate, I would like to point out – not only the revenue, but also expenditure – an important expenditure position that we have had in recent weeks, through the demonstrations. The demonstrations against the new government – it was up to now, from February to May, 105 or more – have cost around 40 million schilling to date, and the actual effort or damage was around 10 million schilling. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Without the damage!]] Regardless of this cost factor – the money, about 50 million schilling – we are naturally going to lose out on the demonstrations, there are processes and developments that I think will vote for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Perfuss.]] In principle, I would like to point out that I am in favour of freedom of demonstration. This is a fundamental right, and the confession to it is quite clear. But it is remarkable that many of these demonstrations were not registered – there was no organiser there and no more – which makes it very difficult to act. Fortunately, the executive has handled it in such a way that these demonstrations have nevertheless been approved so that there is no escalation. Considerable is the fact that 54 executive officials were injured in these 105 demonstrations. Considerable is that we have 226 damage to property, 32 of which are strip vehicles. Considerable is that at this demonstration, various groups were not based on peaceful demonstrations, but were specifically organized by the Black Block. It was arranged that the police were tossed with stones and bottles. [[Abg. Friend: This is a community!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I do not understand at all what Mrs Petrovic says here: It bothers them that tangled fenders mix in the block of violent anarchos. – Only in this way is it possible to become obsessive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] – This is clearly the attitude of the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important that the students are instrumentalized in Vienna. It's incredible what's happening here! Furthermore, it is worrying that verbal violence was exercised if it was said: "Schül, Haider on the wall!" - Where are we? Who distanced himself from it? – I haven’t heard of any of the Greens and SPÖs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] In addition – and I reject it – you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the SPÖ, were involved in these demonstrations, that a former Federal Chancellor and former Minister, for example Climate, Vrannitzky and One, were involved – perhaps even with the vibration pipe – and that even the SPÖ Army Union of Lower Austria called in writing to participate in this demonstration – we have this in writing, ladies and gentlemen! – in which own colleagues were injured. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál]] [[Abg. Gaál: Many Tyrolean gendarmen!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also say – and I deeply reject it! – that a general Schnabl – and I say it again – has also demonstrated. He can say a hundred times that he wasn't there because he himself was the one who lit a candle against the government! [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's unbearable! [[Abg. Gaál: Too many Tyrolean gendarmen!]] This behavior, my Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the Greens, is unbearable. The voters have got a wonderful picture of you! Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Federal Minister Strasser has passed his fire baptism in the demonstrations, but also through these many legal measures already initiated. – I congratulate Mr Strasser on all that has happened so far, and I congratulate the Executive Officer on their behaviour at the demonstrations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, a word about Wolfgang Schüssel – because Mrs. Stoisits addressed him – was severely attacked: Ladies and gentlemen! A man who has held the last half year – election debate, coalition talks SPÖ – ÖVP, failed by the SPÖ, coalition talks with the FPÖ, government formation, domestic demonstrations, sanctions abroad, incredible hetze campaigns of the SPÖ and the Greens, international media vortices – who keeps it quiet, calm and extremely competent in this situation, who, in addition to these enemies with the new government and coalition, also initiates important reform steps, ladies and gentlemen, can only be the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria: [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Is a hero!]] Wolfgang Schüssel! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I congratulate you on these first hundred days, I congratulate you on this budget, and I am convinced that together we will still be dealing with this debt bag, which has accumulated for 30 years! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10175	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10196	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the field of civil service because it is precisely civil service in that area, Mr Minister, which you can not only justify budgetly, but that is also a political impact of the EIA and the liberals: They want to reduce civil service and ultimately make it impossible! [[Abg. Kiss: Last Friday you did not want to see the facts come true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I'll prove to you today that I'm right. Minister Strasser yesterday, in the "ZiB 2" on the question of what is basically there in the civil service field of savings, rightly did not have an answer. In total, there is no savings in civil service, but in the medium and long term the costs of civil service will increase dramatically! – I would like to look at this even more closely. I would first like to come back to Mrs Partik-Pablé and make some corrections because I think Mrs Partik-Pablé, that you may have relatively little or no idea as far as the medical side is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Oh yes! I once studied medicine!]] I don't know myself so well, but I can tell you, for example – listen to me, you can learn something now! – that the hand-rooted bone examinations to show the age of a human being – especially when it comes to minor age – do not offer the possibility to estimate this precisely for months, but that it can only be estimated for about years. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I studied medicine!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's about years!]] These people, however, are partly about months when it is to be determined whether they are adult or underage. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! If you want a proof of this, I can also offer you the results of my hand-rooted bone examination! Imagine: After this finding, I would probably receive the pension for 15 years, because I have a bone density like an eighty year old! That's the reality! So don't pretend you'd recognize yourself in the medical field, because that's just not the case! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] However, I can also bring you documents from non-disabled people who would have had to go back to work for ten to 15 years at the age of sixty or seventy if they had been classified for the pension on the basis of the hand-rooted bone examination. - But that's just on the verge. I would just like to tell you, Mrs Partik-Pablé – and you know this at least as well as I do – that it is not only about the hand root bone examination, but that people, no matter how old they are, are especially valued for foreigners, also for shame-washing examinations or for skull measurements, and that they are valued for their shape and body size. [[Abg. Young: In total, there are 70 features!]] In this way, you can substantially determine the future or the future of a human being, and I believe that this must no longer be done in Austria, but we must be quite clear about it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How can you decide, Mrs. Deputies?]] But now I would like to come to another point, and in this context I am sorry to have to return to Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé! I don't hear you now, because I've turned off my hearing aid, and that for good reason! I don't hear your calls now, and I know why I turn off the hearing aid! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] As proof of this, I put it here on the pult, then you can save yourself your callership! Now to the next area: Mrs. Partik-Pablé! They also do not distinguish between peace service and memorial service: Special civil service is not about the peace service, but only about memorial service. Keep this nicest apart once! For peace service, no civilians are provided, but only for commemorative service at home and abroad, and we have this in times like this more than necessary! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] I would like to say something to you, Mrs Partik-Pablé, because I have done my utmost to give you the following speech: They have criticized that the Red Cross only has to pay 1,228 s per month and civil servants, while other institutions have to pay up to 7,800 p.m. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Minister said that!]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé! The ÖVP has almost disappeared from the air, because the ÖVP was the party that has made sure that the Red Cross organizations – whether that is justified or not, I do not want to discuss here at all – have to pay only 1,228 S. You should better get together with your coalition partner before making such messages! But I'll give you a chance. I will make a request, according to which all organisations will be required to pay the same cost contribution in the future. In this respect, I am quite with you! But get in touch with your government partner! The fact is that the air has been left out of the air that you are discussing what they have been fighting for years and their rescue organizations as a government group and not as an opposition party. You must not forget: You're a government party now! In some areas you already know that, but there are times and again situations in which you simply forget! This is human and belongs to it. I'm even apologizing. It's right that it is! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The woman is crazy!]] Minister Strasser! Now to you: It is not true that the fact that there are still civilian servants at all in the June allocation is due to a rescue programme. That's not true! It may be that this is a rescue programme for you as a minister, so that you and the coalition partners FPÖ and ÖVP are in agreement. It is possible that this was a rescue programme, but it is certainly not a rescue programme when it comes to the financial resources and possibilities of civil service. Minister! I think you were in an unhappy position and maybe still are. Why else would you have tried – and this is very obvious, but probably you did it privately – to save at least for Lower Austria what is to be saved. I now look at the allocations for the month of June 2000: According to this document, Lower Austria gets – see! – in 14 days in those areas where there are still civilian servants, obviously most civil servants! That means that there is the highest utilization. I prove this to you by means of an example: In section 3d – services in the field of old-age care – Lower Austria receives 56 percent of the requested civilians. In all other federal states, however, the allocation is between 0 percent and 7 percent of the requested civil servants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kampichler.]] The matter is relatively obvious, we do not need to discuss it anymore. This is in the form of a truly detailed answer to the question, from which you can actually read a lot. I am glad that 56 percent of civil servants in Lower Austria are assigned to the old sector, but I am unhappy that you have not done so in the other federal states too! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I simply have to practice this criticism, Mr Minister, because I think it is unfair how civil servants are distributed nationally. This is simply unfair, for why are people in Lower Austria better cared for than in Upper Austria or Burgenland, for example? Why are the facilities provided with fewer civilians? Are these people being disadvantaged only because they do not happen to live in Lower Austria and the head of state does not happen to be called Pröll and because they do not happen to come from the ranks or parlors of the head of state Pröll? How do people in the other federal states get involved? There is a need for explanation, Minister. [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr. Minister! Turn off your hearing aid too!]] But you will certainly tell me today! But now I really come to the budget: Minister! The budget you presented in the Committee on Budgets on Civil Service is not in the back and front! The numbers you've delivered to us can be quite clear to me – and I'm just a bookkeeper! If you had done this work as a schoolwork, you would have gone out with not enough! And if there are many not enough in a class, then schoolwork is repeated. That is why, Mr Minister, I would like to make the following request by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr, friends and friends today. The National Council wants to decide: The Members who have been signed request that the Government Template 60 and 60 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report be referred back to the Budget Committee. I therefore make this request so that the Committee on Budgets will finally be reworked, which is necessary to ensure that the government template really has the content that it needs! I'll also tell you where the big chunks are buried and where it's not true: In the case of family support and housing aid, posts were estimated to be almost 50 per cent lower, although, Minister, the number of civilian servants is far from falling to this extent. - How is that? In the case of flat-rate compensation for civil servants, you estimate only a small increase, from 155.5 million to 175.8 million schilling. That can't be true, because you're with the novelle, the one with the one. June will enter into force, the flat-rate remuneration will be increased accordingly! This item must therefore clearly be higher by a substantial amount! Minister! Chapter 7281/900 deals with the replacements relating to accommodation, catering and work clothing of civil servants et cetera et cetera in accordance with § 41(2). In addition, the training and the basic course are provided. Minister! They have now estimated an amount of 243 million schillings compared to the previous year's amount of 269 million schillings. – Even this amount cannot be voted, because all that I have read to you is no longer there! That's why this post has to look completely different! Minister! On the other hand, a lot is not right on the revenue side. First, you were right to say that you did not look at which civil service agencies to repay more or less for the civilians in charge, but that it was your sole concern to treat the NGOs, regardless of the reimbursement of costs. Minister! If that is the case – and if it is so, it has shown itself in the meantime – then the costs that the institutions return to the ministry are much, much lower than you have on the revenue side in your budget! How is that, Minister? You have to explain that to me! I am an accountant and I know myself in this area! But where I don't know – and you probably don't – that's in your budget. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister! These are the reasons why I call for referral back to the Budget Committee. We here in this House, Mr Minister, must be able to expect the new Federal Government to have budget figures, which are presented, at least in the light of the approach and are not some figures that can be combined somewhere and which, according to the motto, is written into the budget: The main thing is, there's something in there! That's not how it is, Mr. Minister. They belong to the government that has said it wants to rerule. – With this budget, however, you are a new government, and that we point out, you must let us please you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Bringing this material to the public will give you a blamage that you can't make any more bets. Minister! You have said that there will be a renewal of civil service in autumn, and this is certainly an admission that the novels you have now pushed through in an undemocratic way are a blow. Why would it be? In other words, you come to the idea that before this novelle enters into force at all – namely, with 1. June – already in mid-May, i.e. 14 days before, announce: We have to innovation this anyway, it has not become a whole thing. . We told you that was a punch. But you didn't believe us, but in the final effect you confirmed it to me now. Minister! I've been familiar with the Civil Service Act since 1985. I've been a civil service officer in an institution for years, and I know what it's all about, Minister. That is why I think it would be necessary for you to set up a working group now. You don't have to invite me. I'm not gonna write that to you! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But that would be a good idea!]] But invite people who understand something about it! I can call you names. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The members of the working group with which you have held discussions in advance – and as a result, this novel has come out from 1. June has been valid – people who have chosen you and who truly don't understand this topic! This is black on white visible here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Please do another job or post-school work, because without it there will not be any civil service! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10496	The motion put forward by Mrs Haidlmayr has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10520	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! The first speaker of the Socialists, the chairman of the Committee on the Interior, Leikam, has stated that he sees black and blue for the executive due to the formation of government. But he meant that negative. – I can tell you: Just the opposite is the case: The executive has been living formally since the liberals in the government have shared responsibility. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Leikam has lamented that there are minor cuts in the planning area. Mr Leikam! It's going to stop so fast! You can no longer remember what SPÖ has done in the field of security in recent years! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Minister of Interior Schlögl was responsible for the double budget in 1996/1997 as Secretary of State. Do you remember how many planning sites were destroyed at the time? – I will tell you: 958 planning sites were shortened in the field of executives! But now you are criticizing this government that has taken over a debt mountain from you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's clear that sparing is an hour's commandment. However, the "argument" that less executive planning bodies mean less security is not applicable! Rather, it will be important for administrative reforms to take place now so that they can be saved where there is no need to continue increasing the use of staff because it does not do anything. There will be no savings on executive officers outside the street, so on site, because this is important for security in our country. It will also be important for the executive to be given the highest motivation, and you can be sure that this will be done by this Federal Government as soon as possible! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There will be an objective law. Stop the mailer! There will be a separate right of service for the executive. I listened very carefully to the speeches yesterday. Socialist Members Kuntzl said literally: The FPÖ is threatening democracy. – I can tell you: The exact opposite is the case! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have an disturbed mind of property! You still believe this country belongs to you! I'll tell you: This Republic belongs to the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No longer will any official in the public service need a party book to make him something. It's over! It'll be cleaned up! This country is no longer yours! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I just had a wonderful experience recently. I was allowed to congratulate a Executive Officer who became Head of Service. This was very, very surprised at the fact that no party book was needed anymore. He said: I can now finally save myself from the socialist party book. I have not chosen them for a long time, but they have forced me to join the party book. [[Abg. Eder: But neither do you!]] – It's over now! Also in the public service! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: For this we now have the blue ropes: Prinzhorn and his horns!]] We are making a policy for the public service, which at last counts the performance. Even if that hurts you: The red party book will not count anything there in the future. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiermaier spoke of unwarranted criticism of Minister Schlögl. – I should like to say, as did my previous speaker, Mrs Partik-Pablé: We didn't practice an unauthorized criticism of Schlögl. On the contrary! We also praised him when he did things that were in the interest of the country's security. Mr Schlögl was at least a better minister than his predecessor. This praise must be relativized, however, if you say who was his predecessor, namely Minister Caspar von Einm. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's call damage!]] And no matter who came after him: He couldn't have done it any more! He was even distrusted by his own staff representative! What weighs it has – also for the former Minister Schlögl. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Your speech is incredibly "intellectual"!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If one hears the debates of the Greens, one gets the impression that the Greens have something left for the executive. Mr Roland Zellothat directed them on the last day, as the German army sees the Greens. – I therefore do not need to repeat this for the executive. They were informed directly in 1995: At the time, the Greens were running the security guard. There were 10 389 candidates, and only 152 misguided have the Greens chosen! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: After all!]] At that time you got the answer, and because of the policies of recent years, these 152 would probably be difficult to consider! That's your priority in the executive! You can certainly assume that this federal government is fully behind the executive! If the Greens believe they have to continue politics, draw the picture of a beating police, I hereby announce to you: We will not only stand behind the executive, but we will also stand in front of the executive if these accusations continue to be presented and published by you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I can tell the Minister of State that he should not make the same mistake as his predecessor. [[Abg. Eder: He has no fault at all!]] In his statement, he has, for the most part, dealt with the Greens' representatives of Stoisits. – Minister! Faith You just don't want you to ever get the greens behind you! That's what your predecessor believed. In the case of Omofuma, however, the Greens were the first to demand his resignation! The liberals were then behind the then Minister Schlögl. Mr Strasser, just don't make the mistake of believing that you could win the Greens for something useful in security policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10704	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10722	Mr President. Mr Federal Minister, I hope you will take the Comradeship Council very seriously! But now back to reality. – Minister of State! Austria is still a very safe country, and that we today have a high security standard, which the world envys us about, is certainly also a merit of your predecessors. I am convinced that you too will strive to maintain these political conditions for a high quality of life and safety in our country. Federal Minister! Although they are not fully responsible for the savings measures, they are nevertheless co-responsible, and they are very, very serious concerns to me, because they ultimately endanger the high safety standard very massive. This affects me in particular, as a Vienna MP, because construction projects that are absolutely necessary at the various levels in the area of Vienna simply cannot be realized – regardless of whether they are the establishment of watchrooms or the police commissioner Hietzing, where a very competent district chief is working close to you. All of this is largely rejected, and that is hardly possible for me. Federal Minister! I would therefore ask you to look at the facts here in Vienna too! We had a personal conversation, and since then I am convinced that you will alleviate the situation a little bit and that we will not be able to feel this rigorous saving course and the budget cuts of the Federal Government in Vienna too, because the security of Vienna's population is really suffering from these terriblely rigorous savings measures. There is little room for necessary re-purchasing – regardless of whether it is the computer area, the exchange of old devices, the life span of which has long been exceeded and which repair work is required, or the procurement of vehicles. Federal Minister! The act that was presented to you concerns the procurement of 140 motor vehicles. But only 57 were approved, and there is a large hole of 83 vehicles! I mean, these unresponsive deletions in the security field are irresponsible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to look at these facts once again, because it is ultimately a matter of motivating, in your contribution to the debate, executive officials who work excellently and committedly – this applies throughout the federal territory – and thus maintaining the subjective sense of security. Therefore, the objectively necessary tool must also be provided. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Federal Minister! I also looked at your nine-point program, which you gave me on 9. In February, you presented a comprehensive training reform in which you promised a comprehensive training reform. The idea has come to me that for the Security Academy, which has taken on a particularly high priority, which was a vision that made it a reality, an institution that is important and necessary, from which valuable impulses for the entire security executive do not provide the necessary budget resources. I would therefore ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to focus on this so important and necessary institution, which is concerned with vocational education and training, in order to meet the challenge of the scenarios of the future and of the present, and which is about higher and higher management. We are concerned with quality, professionalism and ultimately the security of our country, and this is also your personal focus! Federal Minister! I should like to remind you that, in addition to the necessary procurement of equipment, we also need to improve the quality of the equipment as a whole in order to continue the success course so far, because all of us are particularly concerned about the protection and safety of the population. Saving security would be the wrong signal. I therefore believe that we should work together in the interests of the people of Austria to make people feel comfortable and safe and to live in this country. If that is not the case, there will be no consent from us!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10780	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10801	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the address of Mr Leikam, who unfortunately is not here now. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: He's here!]] Mr Leikam, if you are concerned about the future security policy in Austria, I really only give you a conditional right. I am not right to give you this because we have excellent army and police officers and an excellent interior minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am right to give you this insofar as you have not spent much of what you and your Minister of the Interior have called for in recent years – security billions, 1,000 places of planning in the executive sector. Of course, it would be much easier for us today to make savings in view of the budget disaster found. From this point of view, I am not surprised that Mr Leikam has been replaced as SP security spokesperson. Of course, as in almost all other areas, the 2 000 budget for the interior area is a sign of the overall consolidation of the State budget. Saving always hurts, and it also doesn't happen to me as an executive officer when there are savings for the interior resort. However, it is irresponsible and objectionable to try to suggest here or through various APA broadcasts to the population that, since there is a black and blue government, the security of people in our country is no longer guaranteed. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's right!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! This is a dangerous game, even if you make it in the knowledge that your statements are not correct and that in some areas of ex-minister Schlögl the money that was intended for this year was already planned, promised and spent in some areas of ex-minister Schlögl! [[Abg. Böhacker: Is that true?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget 2 000 has the touch of an old load recovery package, especially in the field of the Ministry of the Interior. Let me give you an example: Of the 32 million schillings available for the new building of gendarmerie services in this year, 25 million were planned last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schlögl.]] In the clear text this means that less money is available this year, because the majority were already planned, promised and partially awarded in the previous year. [[Abg. May. You have to plan!]] That's right! But as you have done, this is not a responsible policy for us! What was done there was economics at a foreign cost! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To the opposition, especially to Mrs. Haidlmayr: ==References== This year, in an unprecedented action, this speaker's seat is blocked. Have you ever wondered why 17 000 civilians are waiting for service? [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Yes, because there are so few civil service places!]] Faith You're really responsible for this queue of the new Minister of the Interior Dr. Strasser? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In 100 days!]] Do you not know that the budget appropriations were already exhausted last autumn and that the June and October dates of this year would not have been possible at all? – Only through a bravorous rescue action by Dr. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It was the Schlögl!]] Straster and his team have managed at all to secure civil service and not endanger the work of the aid organizations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Despite Savings continue to be guaranteed by this budget under the high security standard of Austria. However, in order to maintain this standard of safety, it is necessary to define clear security objectives. These were set out in the Coalition Agreement: This is the fight against organised crime in general, but especially the fight against tow, trafficking in human beings and drug crime. On the other hand, structural reforms and improvements in administration are necessary. I also think that the installation of a Federal Criminal Office is a very important and proper proposal to be able to carry out the work of the Executive in the field of investigations more efficiently and coordinated. A serious legacy has also been assumed by Minister of the Interior, Strasser, in the field of personnel policy, where recent savings are particularly painful. Since 1995, in the executive service – if you leave the border service because this is an essential additional task – around 650 officials have been saved throughout Germany. Due to the above-mentioned savings, more than 300 officials in the services are missing in Lower Austria. And it is difficult to claim that the current Minister of the Interior is responsible for this failure. Mr Mag. Schlögl! In your district of Vienna-Umgebung, 30 officials have been missing for years. [[Abg. May. Schlögl: How does it look in the police schools? Never as full as now!]] They have been missing in the district of Vienna-Umgegebung for years! In 1998 and 1999, Mr Leikam, the chairman of the Committee on the Interior, called for a security billion, including 1,000 additional posts. Where are these additional security billions, and where are these 1,000 planning sites? – Now, in a situation where one has to correct a budget disaster, in addition to demanding 1,000 planning places, it will and can only remain wishful thoughts. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's gonna be a long time, the light!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Our goal in the field of internal security is to protect the population optimally, to recognize and combat the threats of the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was the closing point!]] With Interior Minister Dr. Ernst Straster, despite the savings measures, security and quality of life are guaranteed for the people of our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10991	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11026	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Windholz is obviously suffering from self-deception when he says that the executive has lived up since the FPÖ was in the government. He is probably one who pulls in the belly when he rises on the balance and hopes he weighs less. Is he here? [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's here!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Don't make fun of physical...!]] Mr. Federal Minister, a question – I have listened –: Don't worry that you need to lock up, ah, save if... [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They're easy to entertain, really! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Is it not annoyed that you have to save while tax gifts are made to the economy and the big farmers? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Hardly a social democrat comes to the speaker's desk, she talks about incarceration!]] It's 20 billion. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of SPÖ) She's talking about incarceration!]] The money is missing. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Incarceration" you said!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Have you never gone far, Mr. Deputies? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're right!]] Well, please! [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Sounds a bit like Freud!]] Federal Minister! Obviously, you value to work professionally. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In your reign you were so tame!]] Her embrace tactics suggest that. But I'm telling you: A Federal Minister is ultimately as good as his officials are professional. You're lucky you've got good officials. [[Call to the ÖVP: That was the same with you!]] I would like to thank from this point of view the executive for the work done, especially during the demonstrations. It is the officials who really prove themselves excellent and sensitive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: But you believe it...!]] [[Call at the ÖVP: You hear something else from the Greens!]] [[Further calls.]] A word on civil servants, Minister of State: They say in the savings that this creates women's jobs. I heard that on TV. – Mr Federal Minister, are you really serious about this? I wonder, Which woman will be satisfied with about 8,000 s for 40 hours a week? – I'm sure of one thing: I'm sure men are not satisfied with this. But I think that's where someone's settled down. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The farmers all!]] Federal Minister! Refugee care and asylum policy have already been addressed. Your announcement to link the work permit with the residence permit is a measure I very much welcome. You have in your nine-point program of 9. It also stressed the importance of asylum. But what has happened to this budget? – 89 million schillings are to be saved in refugee care. I look for refugee care in this country for this year's black – or should I say "blue"? Another aspect is the situation of the border army. There, too, is saved. [[Call to the liberals:... Color feeling! You can also say "red"!]] I believe that this is very difficult. Especially in my district in the south-west Styria – Germanysberg and Leibnitz – the population depends on a functioning gendarmerie company. By the way, my colleague, Zweytick, has also pointed out this effectively. When do you think it was? – When the Federal Minister called Schlögl! Mr Zweytick is not here now, although he is always so committed to the border country. But maybe you can say this to Mr Zweytick. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] He probably won't lean as far to the window in the future as he said – I quote – when he said: We are facing a security collapse. - That was 13th. May 1999. Now I don't hear any more of that, though there's going to be saved, gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who was that?]] This is Mr Zweytick. Do you hear bad? – That must obviously be so. Finally, I would like to thank the ex-Bundesminister Karl Schlögl for being able to leave a modern executive to his successor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is with his merit that we are allowed to live in one of the safest countries in the world. [[Abg. Haigermoser: First it was Schlögl, now it is Strasser! You have to decide!]] Federal Minister Strasser! You've taken over a well-run place. That's a bonus. _Play Don't get this bonus! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But he is still a lot better than his predecessor!]] You believe that! You know how it is with self-absorbing.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11335	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11377	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of "internal safety" is inseparably linked to the issue of "search poison and drug control". It is time for the creeping legalisation of drugs to be stopped. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Addressed by the Social Democrats: You have in the ranks of your officials, among others, a woman vice-president Laska and a Mr. City Councillor Rieder, who both make a strong contribution to a dubious project. This project – you may already have heard of it – is called "Check it". Dear Minister of the Interior! This will torpedo all successful efforts to combat drugs. What helps a remarkable success as you just described it, with the 30 arrests and the 60 kilograms of cannabis found? What will help if, as you say, the fight against drug trafficking in international cooperation is stepped up? What helps all of this if at the same time the addiction did not decrease before your eyes, but – quite the contrary! – the addicts are also supported? How does the concept "Check it" work? – Under the cover of a so-called scientific pilot project – otherwise the action would be punishable – under the name "scientific pilot project"... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Aha, you know God. Under the name "Scientific pilot project", young people are asked to have their drugs checked for their high quality at events such as "Rave Parties". [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] But the addiction will not be withdrawn. This, of course, is all done anonymously, not a question! The drug addict comes with his drug and says: Please, is this pure cocaine, or is it not pure cocaine? – Completely anonymous! [[Abg. Haigermoser:... Oils?]] However, the addiction is not recovered after the sample, but returned to the consumer so that he can consume it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Unquestionably!]] Minister of the Interior! This is a worrying development. This has already gone so far – we know – that even drug dealers have gone there, demonstrated the addiction in their anonymity, had it checked and then took it back to buy larger quantities because they knew the purity content of this addiction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a project to be completed immediately! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Incredible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I would therefore ask you, Mr Strasser, to take this issue seriously. It is also in the Coalition Agreement and, of course, in our government's programme, the uncompromising fight against drug trafficking is one of the important issues in the field of internal security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] But for this project – because you are so aging; do you know that? – millions of taxpayers are made available. That is an addition. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is a fairy tale!]] That's not a fairy tale! Check with your officials! That's the same thing. The executive, Minister of the Interior, is inconceivable. It is unconstitutional about this legalization, about this sluggish legalization of drugs. A senior official told me: It's just a capitulation to drug crime. And that's really it! It's a capitulation to drug crime! – So much of this worrying development, which is obviously carried by parts of the Social Democrats here. Non-wording executive: Once again, a demonstration is announced, the "night of resistance" on 27 May. May. But you will certainly be informed in detail. The executive is already expecting talks with left-wing extremists on Saturday, with anarchists. In a newspaper published in a morning it reads: "Re-alarm around Great Demo!" In the last wave of violence – and this is a wave of demonstration of violence, ladies and gentlemen, in which you also participated as demonstrators – there were 53 injured officials and hundreds of ads. I warn you today – this is addressed to the Social Democrats and, of course, very predestined to the Greens – I warn you already today: [[Abg. May. Prammer: You don't need to warn in this house!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens]] Distance yourself from these left anarchists! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you take seriously the vow formula you have filed here when you took over this function and this office, then you must not solidify yourself with these left-wing extremists! - Thank you. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Haider!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes, the Haider!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: A miscarriage, he said!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11564	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11585	I do not want to go into the words of my previous speaker, because this would only add to these unqualified statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear to everyone in Austria that the Republic must save. But if you have to save, you should think a little bit better where you put on the spasm. In the field of civil service, it is guaranteed the wrong way. [[Call the ÖVP: Where would it be right?]] Just the savings... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In the budget is not a single proposal from the SPÖ!]] There are plenty of areas! Just this afternoon, we discussed an area in which I have never heard anything about savings. [[Call the ÖVP:Where?]] In the field of agriculture, for example. There is also a savings potential there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It is precisely the savings of civil servants that show how headless and indifferent the spasm is put on. The work of civil servants has always been underestimated and underestimated in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is that an accusation to Schlögl?]] Now I will tell you the following, Minister of State Strasser: You have shown yourself to have performed civil service yourself at the last time you have answered a question. That's very good to know. But you are also in practice and know how it works. There are currently more than 16 000 people waiting for their assignment. [[Abg. Kiss: Why?]] When I see the number of civilians... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why?]] [[Abg. Kiss: Who was Interior Minister?]] Let me continue this thought. If you reduce the number of civilians, i.e. draw in by 1,500 less per year, then the waiting loop becomes even bigger, and it becomes even more uncertain for the young people who have reported for civil service. I ask you: If a young man applies for a job after his education or vocational training, then it will certainly be the first question of the head of staff: Have you handled civil service or military service? – The applicant will say: No, I'm still waiting. – Well, most of the company’s answer is clear. He'll say: Come back when you've done military service or civil service! How should this work now when waiting times of two, three or four years are due to the civilians? – He will consider his decision. That's the real reason! Because the number of civil servants or the young people who have opted for civil service has increased, one wants to put forward a bar, so that it is said: Before I wait two, three or four years for civil service, I do my service in the Federal Army so that I will not be further disabled in my career. This is the true background for all these so-called savings actions. Ladies and gentlemen! I would suggest the following: If you are serious about civil service law, then we are considering the possibility that if an applicant is not recruited into civil service within at least 12 months, he simply cannot be called up and is generally liberated from civil and military service. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Only in this way can reasonable life planning and professional planning be maintained. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That doesn't solve the problem!]] The discussions that have been held over and over again about the introduction of a professional force and the abolition of general military service would also mean the end of civil service. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do you have a few more "good" suggestions?]] The announcement that a working group is to examine by October to what extent long-term unemployed people can take on long-term jobs from civilian servants shows where the journey is actually going. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not need to tell you how much the interest of the media has been in recent times when it came to the question of civil service. However, I would like to point out one point: You, Federal Minister Strasser, said last week in your reply that, with the 43 s in food costs, you want to make only equality with the ministers. – This comparison is huge! A civil servant does not have the opportunity to eat in a barracks or elsewhere. [[Abg. Böhacker: Maybe you should create this opportunity!]] There are also many civil service facilities where there is no food at all. Therefore, this comparison tends to be unfair and, in fact, unfair. These are not reforms, but only cuts in how they make this federal government in many other areas. [[Abg. Böhacker: Not all that hangs is a comparison!]] Perhaps another example of the allocations: I've been looking at this on the basis of an answer from you. When I look at what the allocations look like in June – I don't know why you're always talking about a "notation" that you had to do so that in June allocations can be made at all. These assignments have never been made by the Minister himself, but they have always been done through the office, and as much as I know, the office – no matter which minister is always there – has worked very well in recent years. If I look at only examples from Upper Austria: Linz City Hospital – Need for June 2000: 21, civil servant assignment: zero! Nervous clinic Wagner-Jauregg – Need: 6, Assignment: null! Landespflegeanstalt Schloss Cumberland, for very seriously ill persons – Need: 3, Assignment: zero! Social assistance in my district Linz Land – Need: 23, assignment: zero! And that's how it goes. In fact, you have not told us the truth with the budget, as Mr Haidlmayr has already mentioned. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who didn't tell the truth? Mr. Edlinger?]] I cannot imagine that, in the case of replacements, hospitals or old houses, every civil servant has to pay for it if less is allocated – and as you can see, some will be set to zero – just this budget item can be higher than in the previous year. So here you play with wrong numbers, I have to tell you. If you had been honest, you would not only have had to reduce the number of civil service allocations, but also reduce the revenue position in this sector. Mr Federal Minister, as you spoke last week about equality, there is another proposal: Let us not only talk about the equality of money, but also about the equality of civil service time! Here I know my solidarity with the ÖAAB and with the Young ÖVP, which is reported in a press release: "Young ÖVP again calls for a reduction in the length of civil service of 12 months currently." – "New Volksblatt", 28. April. In this sense, if you enforce this, you will certainly also find our support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] 21.3 2
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11810	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11858	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dietachmayr, a brief comment: I do not know what you meant by your comment on the civilians after 12 months. Do you think that they all have to go to the federal army – because I think civil service is still a military service – or do you want to abolish the federal army? - I don't know how you meant that. Please tell us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has undertaken to do everything to ensure that Austria remains the safest country or one of the safest countries. To maintain internal security, combating international organised crime – the drug cartel, trafficking in human beings, the towing industry, the car slider – is certainly the primary objective. Of course, a total budgetary situation, as we have it, is not satisfactory. But you know the reasons why this has come about; I don't think that's what I need to leave out. This means, however, that total expenditure is frozen and around 400 million schillings are below the provisional success of 1999. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, that means that the budget remains the same, even rising by a tenth. I do not understand why it should be a reputation that the former Minister Schlögl used 400 million schilling more than was planned in the budget. That is incomprehensible to me, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: ( towards SPÖ) So you have wasted the money!]] We have to ensure that the people's sense of security is maintained at the end of the day. To this day, we have always been able to thank God. However, security is important not only for the financial situation, but also – and I am always concerned with the judicial system here – for cooperation between the internal and judicial sectors. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... needed as you do!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to deal with my case and not to answer you now. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You'll always be so red! We are afraid of your health!]] Yes, thank you for taking care of it! I would like to give you three examples, one from the Justice Department, one from the Interior and one from both the Interior and the Justice Department. From the field of justice, especially in the field of drugs, some remarks to the Drugs Act: In my opinion, § 13 of the Drugs Act poses a problem. It is unsatisfying that students who consume drugs are treated in accordance with the provisions of § 13 of the Drugs Act. That is to say, health-related measures are being taken. Students who then consume and pass on drugs are also treated in accordance with § 13. But students who just pass on drugs and do not consume themselves are prosecuted. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem for me. I believe that we need action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With an example that comes from the area of the interior, I would like to take a brief look at the tow beings. We know that in 1999, 42 812 persons were picked up in the course of official acts. This corresponds to an increase of 23 000 people or 117 percent. There have been official acts, and this increase in towing means an unlikely, enormous burden and multi-responsibility for our security forces. But these have managed, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. The security forces have worked for it, they have been motivated and have achieved everything to ensure this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Therefore, I believe it is very important that, thanks to the agreement of Minister of the Interior, Mr Strasser and Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, it has now succeeded in achieving a revision of the criminal provisions against the tow – and this, although it was not planned to deal with them within 100 days. Thank you many times, Minister, for trying so hard! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Allow me, in the context of my example of the necessary cooperation between the Interior and Justice, to address a legal issue. The question of the investigative power in the Austrian criminal procedure is the decisive reduction in the duties of the examiner. In this respect, a reform would be necessary because it has been discussed for many years – for over five years. According to the law of the criminal procedure, the investigating judge is currently conducting the preliminary investigation, but in fact – as you all know – the criminal police. In practice, this means that due to the pre-examination phase of the criminal police, the main investigation phase of the investigators hardly exists anymore and the criminal police have to take over the entire work of this judicial activity. [[Demonstrative applause among the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today, the criminal police usually determine until the end of the case and pass on the results to the prosecutor who decides on the indictment or, at the end of the trial, on the setting-up of proceedings. The judge who examines the matter should be abolished, ladies and gentlemen. The question is: Who replaces this judge: the prosecutor or the criminal police? – As always in life, there are two proposals, one from the Ministry of Justice and another from the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And a government agreement!]] Thanks a lot. But these two proposals are still in place. The Ministry of Justice would naturally like to order the prosecutor; the Ministry of the Interior would like to put all the preliminary proceedings in the hands of the criminal police. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For us here in Parliament, it is important that the rights of the accused are respected and that an objective procedure is ensured. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think a balanced solution needs to be found. The overall security must be in the foreground. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: As stated in the Government Convention!]] It's fixed – thanks many times! Yes, there are good things in the government agreement. I don't have to emphasize that, for me it's of course. These three examples, ladies and gentlemen, show the close relationship between the interior and the judicial resort, and I think we always have a comprehensive view of this. [[Congratulations to Dr. Khol and Kiss.]] I believe that if this financial backpack is on our backs, we will work together, for one reason, ladies and gentlemen, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, so that you can all sleep quietly in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12021	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12042	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Thanks to our executive, thanks to the Austrian executive colleagues, Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. And our common thanks goes to the colleagues of this professional group. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Abg. Böhacker.]] This is a professional group, my dear ladies and gentlemen, whose members, using their lives for the Austrians, contribute around the clock to our home country. I believe that it is also necessary to make the appropriate budget available in the interests of this professional group. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] We can still hear so much about it, fact is: It is less at work and less in staff. There's nothing to do with that! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's not true!]] If we still hear so much talk about the question of public debt, I will say it again here, as many previous speakers have said in recent weeks: It is interesting that since 1986 – the year when you came to the coalition from the ÖVP – public debt has increased. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 1987!]] You cannot discuss this question, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, away! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Edlinger looks away! Edlinger looks into the bank! That's where he's got the billions!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's looking for his budget hole in the bag!]] You can also not discuss that the greatest progress for executives in the equipment sector and in many other areas under Federal Minister Mag. Karl Schlöglstatt. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé formally asked the Federal Minister for the Interior not to save on the spot and not on the outside. – Where, ladies and gentlemen, are they saved? – At the Gendarmerie Posts and in the police guards, there will be saved! [[Abg. Kiss: Who closed him?]] We already have the contacts with the Members concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was the Schlögl!]] [[Further calls.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – if you shout your words even louder, nothing will be better – we now have, where the "100 days" are celebrated, the situation for a few weeks, that many colleagues are waiting for overtime payments, which has not been there for a long time. [[Subsequent calls]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Kiss: He screams like a toothbreaker.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: It's loud enough!]] They will all be happy about this new situation! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Parliamentarians don't get overtime!]] There too, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that: On the back "small" colleagues are saved! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! During the last negotiations on the executive package, which lasted for months, we agreed to cover the heavy service of the Austrian executive officials to make our own rules for these professional groups. With your new pension right, you also want to tighten this professional group rule. This is an unappreciation of the performance of Austrian executive officials! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I only hope that the funds for further IT equipment in your department, Mr. Bundesminister Strasser, will also be used for user-oriented installation. I mean, you have to take into account the needs of colleagues. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A "favorable" speaker!]] Similarly, if you install the new Federal Criminal Office, it will be necessary to take account of the local colleagues – and not only the staff. [[Abg. Kiss: This is again the accusation of the SPÖ!]] I think we owe this to the mass of executive officers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In view of the fact that there is so much talk here of new governance and justice, I can conclude by tabling a motion for a resolution and I invite you to give your assent to this motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of justice, to give your consent to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12324	The motion for a resolution is now before us, is sufficiently sub mitted and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Reindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12349	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I was surprised to see that this motion for a resolution, tabled by Mr Pendl, was not signed by the newly appointed security spokesman of the Social Democrats and former Minister for the Interior, Mr Schlögl. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Why, I don't know. Maybe he doesn't agree? - I don't know. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Everyone doesn't have to sign it! Is that so strict with you?]] Sure, there are enough others – yes, of course. However, it is interesting, Mr Dietachmayr, that a security speaker, a political group speaker, does not sign this motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is very strict with you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate is marked today, as it was yesterday, by the SPÖ and the Greens of Krankjammerei. The SPÖ member Pendl, who was my previous speaker today, even meant yesterday that the new government is not pursuing savings, but only tax goals – that is not true! – and the budget is a package of injustices. [[Call the SPÖ: Right!]] [[Abg. That's what you've been looking after!]] Let us take a look at what today's opposition party, when it was still a government party, has done in the field of interiors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] She did the following: She reformed. – And what does such a "reform" look like? – In the daily newspaper "Kurier" of 1. In November 1997, the impact of your reform was commented on as follows: [[Abg. Leikam: That was the Holy Day!]] "A 35-year-old executive officer at the criminal police" – as the "Kurier" writes – "is retired at 60. At the beginning of the training in 1980, their entry rate was around 7 600 S gross. At 60 years of age, a conversion period of 18 years applies to them; additional fees (overtimes) are also reduced according to the government plan. According to the old calculation, the pension, based on the last reference including additional fees charged for the pension, would constitute approximately 36 090 S gross. The new calculation with calculation and new assessment of the additional fees would reduce the pension to 28 764 S gross." – This results in a rich minus of 7 326 S grossto monthly! It's interesting: At that time, as a government party, the SPÖ called something like this "reform"; today, in the opposition, the same is called "tax". Other examples of SPÖ governance policy: In 1996 and 1997, we had a zero wage round, a significant reduction in planning positions, a stop in public service, reductions in rewards and overtime allowances, a reduction in early pensions and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Wittmann) That's not what he understands! Wittmann is an artist!]] A few examples of the policy of the new government, Mr Wittmann: Redistribution of the tasks between the federal government and countries, combination of ministries according to subject matter, restricting the legal and legal flood – the little ones will not pay the token, because they have already paid them under your government responsibility; they have no more money, they can pay nothing more! – the creation of a service-based right to pay, the introduction of a cost account in the administration, the privatisation of tasks which cannot be concerned by the State. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The little ones will pay the token!]] [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What does Wittmann understand about it?]] – These examples could continue even longer, but my time is not enough now. High house! The lack of social-democratic financial policy has also led to the need to save security executive personnel. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. Reindl, the little ones will pay!]] A staff increase, Mrs Mertel, will probably only be possible once the entire government budget has been re-established. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The ones below 1.60 m are considered small! Wittmann is considered small!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: For you!]] Mrs Mertel! The fact that there must be reorganisation measures in the budget area is probably clear to all the political groups represented here in the House. This has also been clearly expressed by the Social Democrats in their coalition agreement concluded with the ÖVP, which has ultimately failed. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I quote a paragraph from the issue of the "New Volksblatt" of the 11th century. May 2000, from the comment under the title "Erbe": "Budget renovation is not a honey lick. Not for ruling politicians, not even for the people. This year's budget is already demanding all of us victims, and the next one will be the same. The positive side: Despite previous practices, the new government is determined to take the renovation seriously." [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who wrote this to you?]] And what's more, here's what I'm saying: "The rejection of the proposal by the SPÖ was to be expected and is not surprising. A yes to the reform programme of the ÖVP/FPÖ government would also be equal to a commitment of careless financial events under the leadership of socialist finance ministers. From Androsch to Edlinger."– Quote. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This makes it clear to all of us why the SPÖ and also its left-left green trabant cannot give the budget 2000 full approval. [[Cheerfulness of Blackenberger and Windholz MEPs]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Mr Strasser for his successful reform, I also thank the present Gendarmerie-Central Commander General Strohmeyer and the present Mr Brigadier Krenn from the Federal Police Directorate, and I would like to ask them both to express my warm thanks to all the executive officers. With this new government, we will also create a decent future for the entire executive in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12587	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12643	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The internal safety chapter also includes road safety. Unfortunately, on average, three people die every day in Austrian road transport – this is an Austrian average family. 1 079 dead – a plus of 12 percent – 54,967 injured – a plus of 7.6 percent – is the sad traffic balance of 1999. With a 38 percent share of fatal accidents, excessive speed is still the cause of the accident number one on Austria's roads. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Another worry child is heavy traffic. Thus, the proportion of truck accidents on motorways and highways has increased alarmingly. These terrifying accident figures once again show the urgent need for measures to improve road safety and road safety. That is why it is totally incomprehensible and empty pangs for me that the area responsible for these measures, namely the executive, is affected by massive savings under the 2000 budget. The following shall apply: The budget of the Federal Ministry of the Interior for 2000 is around 437 million schilling lower than in the previous year. These drastic cuts in discretionary expenditure lead to negative effects on investment. No new motor vehicles can be purchased, for example. But there are also dramatic cuts in staff. For example, the number of planning sites is to be reduced by 420. For me, this shows very well the disbelief of the security policy of the ÖVP. A year ago, Mr Kiss, asked for the number of executive officials to increase by 1 000. – There is hardly an ÖVP-internal minister, it will not be around 1,000 more, but around 420 less. There was a very rapid change in the opinion and attitude of Mr Kiss. In his speech today, Mr Kiss also spoke in detail about the past, but little about the future. What I am pleased with is – and I hope that it will happen too – that no single Austrian army post will be closed. Only: I come from a district where there are already a lot of services that are under-occupied. Unfortunately, if your personnel is developing, there will be staff savings or job closures. There is already a gendarmerie post with us, where, for example, the position of a retired colleague can no longer be re-occupied. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! In view of these savings measures, how should the executive comply with the so important area of transport safety and traffic monitoring? Only the past Easter holidays have again shown how important consistent work would be in this area. In times of Social Democratic Interior Minister, the budget has been steadily increased over the past few years. [[Abg. Kiss: Bullshit! That's not true!]] Well, in times of black and blue coalition, however, there seems to be a robbery in the area of security. [[Abg. Kiss: Who was the State Secretary in 1997? Did the key call it?]] Without personnel, without vehicles, without additional traffic monitoring equipment, the executive will unfortunately have to watch the negative development of the traffic accident balance. You, Minister of the Interior, Strasser, are always in favour of increased presence and controls by the executive in the public. But I wonder: How will this be possible in case of under-employment in the personnel sector and without adequate infrastructure? We Socialists have always committed ourselves to the appropriate financing of security and have implemented this policy in the years of our government responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! It simply has to be a reasonable human resource development. More officials belong to Austria's roads, technical traffic surveillance facilities must be acquired, greater controls on distance behaviour and stricter monitoring of the rest periods of truck drivers are also necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only such measures can improve the safety of Austrian roads. Not personnel reduction and investment reductions are the answer to increasing road traffic accidents, but more personnel and more investment. Security must be worth something to us! We need to invest in security! Every dead person on the local streets is a dead person too much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of Mr Leikam and Mr Comrades, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12747	The request by Mr Leikam and Mr Comrades, who have just been presented, is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12777	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! None of my previous speakers had as massive criticism as the SPÖ chairman in the Committee on the Interior, Mr Leikam. In my opinion, this criticism was far overrun, it was unqualified and therefore unbelievable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Schlögl, your security spokesperson successor...!]] It sounded to me as if the SPÖ had never been involved in security policy at all. [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The security – the internal and the external – of a country is a great asset! It is a fundamental need for our citizens. Especially in times of budget cuts, it has become more important than ever to become aware of this fact. The Austrian people deserved to continue living in security. I also believe that all of us here in the House cannot be responsible for putting at risk the security of budget consolidation, the need for which has its origin in the policy of socialist finance ministers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This internal budget contributes to budget consolidation and continues to receive the high security standard we have in Austria. Savings can certainly be achieved by streamlining the internal administration and by reducing bureaucracy. It can thus become power-free, which we can then use more and more on the road. I am particularly pleased that Federal Minister Strasser does not plan any Gendarmerieposten-Communications. [[Abg. That's a coincidence!]] If there are any, this can only be coordinated with the region and must be agreed with the local representatives. Thus, unnecessary security failures in rural areas cannot occur at all. Only by avoiding lawn mower methods can we ensure so important things for our society such as traffic monitoring and prevention. We need safety experts – and no form professionals! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In no way can it be comprehensible to me that another separation between the federal police and the Gendarmerie can exist. On the contrary: Isn't it possible to use synergies? Isn't it true to run contact management? And isn't it important to look for non-profit savings? Haven't the SPÖ been looking for solutions in the Stapo reform or for solutions in the Kripo reform for a long time? Did she find this too? - I don't think she was looking for her. It is a pleasure with which ambition our Federal Minister Strasser addresses these things and also successfully implements them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Deputies of Ing. Herbert L. Graf, Haigermoser and Dr. Pumberger.]] With regard to the additional fees: The fact that they have not yet been paid out is because the Minister of Finance does not have any money at present. Another big project, which our Federal Minister Strasser inherited, is the ADONI project, which has already been addressed by Mr Kiermaier. This is a networked radio system that we need very urgently and has been talking about its planned realization for many years. But nothing has happened to this day. Federal Minister Strasser has now launched a pilot effort in Burgenland to explore the impact of such a system on our security facilities. I think it's very important to go the right way here. I am sure that our minister will also take the right course, because this ADONIS programme must be economically and financially compatible and must be used for the benefit of our security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that it should also be examined whether it is possible to save itself from a completely new structure on a completely different track by opening up an existing system. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I welcome these developments and this commitment, which is being launched here by our Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes! ...]] Finally, I would like to say: In the population, safety is of high importance. We are responsible for this. Let us, together and across party borders, increase security even more! I thank our executive – she often has to hold her head for us – for her commitment to the safety of Austrian citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12898	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12920	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the planned changes to civil service, you will meet with a blow of people who want to help, and people who need help. [[Abg. Aumayr: put on the sunglasses of the speaker (on the hair pointing) glasses!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The sunglasses are tick! At 22.05 with sunglasses in the hall!]] They weaken the charitative and social organizations, they make civil service a luxury, and you find longer-term civil service as an alternative to the service with the weapon. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not simply accept the planned regulations! We will bring them to the Constitutional Court, and we will offer free legal aid to all civil servants concerned. [[Abg. Donabauer: Go? Really? Honestly?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: There you have to have a lot of money in the party register!]] But on another subject, Mr. Federal Minister: You have stopped a few days ago by a remark in which you have duly expressed yourself for a measure of the words. I found this appeal very remarkable at the time and was all the more concerned and disappointed to hear, yesterday neither from you nor from the Federal Chancellor, a clear word about statements by the head of the Carinthian state with which he wants to initiate a reduction in freedom. I want to tell you why I am so affected, and I want to explain this to you, with a quote from today's "Salzburger Nachrichten", where Andreas Koller really brings this to the fore: He's talking about "shearing": "In particular, consider the fact that in the course of the last hundred days so many things that began in Klagenfurt as a Schnapside were in Vienna." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! That is why I appeal to you, but also to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to say something about these concerns. Please take the situation seriously, because it is serious! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13063	The motion for a resolution, which Mrs Kuntzl has just read, has been properly tabled, is for negotiation and will be put to the vote. The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13124	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ms Kuntzl was excited that the head of state of Carinthia had made a public statement. – You see, Mr President, you just have to put the name Jörg Haider in the mouth and you already have the attention of the left! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He did that, we all heard that. [[Abg. Swimmling: Just say you're proud of it!]] Jörg Haider has given public thought to the responsibility of mandaters and has said that aloud. A politician may also be allowed to do so! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this government has been ruling for more than 100 days is also evident in the security field. Especially through the presentation of a new security police law and a military power law, weights have clearly been placed on political work in the future. It is mainly about the fight against organized crime. Ladies and gentlemen, the international criminal gangs facing our security forces are well organized and equipped with state-of-the-art technical methods. Therefore, the executive must be given the opportunity, in the sense of a consistent fight against crime, to effectively and efficiently counteract these expansive forms of crime. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that the greens are always obscene is actually speaking for themselves. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, do not seem to be interested in keeping our state structures functional. There is a strange interest in this regard. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, also always argue that the subjective sense of security of the population is at all times very high. You have the right to do so, but the sense of security of the population is so high, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, because the government of crime is at the forefront. And that's how it's supposed to stay! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: What government?]] Under the Novelle Security Police Act, there must be no doubt that any task of defence also includes the task of risk research and thus the task of advanced risk research. The new regulation will allow the police to intervene in the run-up to the investigations if, on the basis of concrete evidence, it is likely that such a group will fear a criminal offence. The aim of advanced risk research is to strengthen the fight against organised crime and to consistently combat and destroy extremist groups while maintaining rule of law. We will discuss this security police law in detail, as I believe, in committee and here in plenary. Especially in the case of organised crime, it must be a matter of preventing criminal organizations from establishing themselves in our country in good time. In this context, Mr Minister, not only security police laws must be updated, but also all relevant criminal law, but also foreign law and residence legislation must be implemented consistently. The intensification of the rules on towing is a good start in this direction. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Some previous speakers have also addressed the civil service question. – This government has also shown a consistent attitude in the field of civil service. It is not intended to discriminate against the sensible use of civil servants – that is far from my mind – but to make it clear that there has been much abuse in the civil service sector. Ladies and gentlemen! In our constitution, we have established general military service and, as long as this is the case, civil service is a military service. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] That's what you should have said: There is a general obligation to be able to set up an army. That is the reason for the general obligation to do so. [[Abg. Oillinger: Give me an argument!]] That's right, my colleague. Only 9 percent of the members of a year indicate that they do not want to comply with general obligation for conscience. I respect that, I said that before. [[Abg. Oillingers: You talked about "abuse"!]] However, the number of civilian servants is between 20 and 30 percent of the daily and not just 9 percent. Two thirds of a year simply plan their career with the decision to go to civil service. That is why, Minister Strasser – precisely because you have been civil servants yourself – I ask you: Set up civil servants in a targeted and just manner and do not forget that civil service – I have already mentioned it – is a military service, which must also be seen in the light of fairness and burden compensation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Stay consistent in the areas I have referred to! Then you will continue to have the support of our liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13250	Mrs Lichtenberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13271	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strasser! With long-term career planning, if I can follow the words of your predecessor, you have done it really well! Unfortunately, not every Minister of the Interior can be! I have just spoken to you to respond to something and to question it again: Minister! In your replica, when it came to rescue, you announced something that was not clear to me. They have said that there is the intention to either abolish the rescue as such and to leave the field to private services or to try to privatise the rescue of flights according to classical privatisation rules. – I would therefore be very interested in how you see the future of these services. Once again, I have worked more precisely on this by means of the example in East Tyrol, where, unfortunately, this is the responsibility of the country and not of the federal government – catastrophic conditions, especially with regard to maintenance and the office section. On the other hand, first-class pilots and first-class saviors serve. Therefore, from my point of view, it would be very distressing and very sad if you were to leave this out and do not provide these services from the Ministry of the Interior! – I know the background with the helicopter acquisition, which is perfectly clear. I know that there has already been a compromise that has not been followed or implemented by you, on the grounds of the helicopter procurement. – That’s how I at least understood your statement. That is why I would like to ask you here again: Think about it again! These flight rescuers we've got are flying operations that don't fly private services anymore. They are there in a way for people who are in danger – whether in danger of mountains or in road transport – like a few private services that are largely unable to do so. That is why I urge you once again to deal with this issue more precisely and carefully, because there may be a very important service, a safety factor for the population and for people in danger! That's a big concern to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13313	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13335	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If one listens to the speeches of some of the social-democratic speakers, then one has the impression that saving off debt and putting a budget in order is the worst thing a federal government can do! – Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government has taken action to correct the prevailing budgetary situation so that we will have more resources in all areas in the future, as well as in the interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would be a simple knitting pattern to say: We are rehabilitating the budget by giving the big farmers, the economy and the homeowners no more money, which would rehabilitate the budget. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The world is not that simple! [[Abg. May. Prammer: You should try that first!]] It would be funny if she were so simple! Ladies and gentlemen! If in recent years 900 plan posts have been dismantled and now one request is made for another, where these plan posts have remained, I wonder: Is that the security policy of social democracy? . I do not see any meaning in this, and the colleagues have already drawn attention to what it had to do with the rejection of ADONIS, helicopters et cetera. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, Federal Minister Strasser has recognized that in the current traffic situation too many accidents and sometimes terrible accidents occur and that older people, children and young people in particular are at risk. Therefore, he immediately set up a priority programme with our executive, with the gendarmen and police: Transport controls have been compacted at the neuralgical sites where accidents abound. He did not immediately call for new planning sites, but he began to relieve the executive of administration and unnecessary bureaucracy. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is the way of a new security policy of the ÖVP under Minister Strasser! [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and Members of the Freeman.]] I would also like to mention the change in awareness in road traffic, because it seems important to me to join forces with the car clubs and the media for a change in awareness in road traffic, because we all need to help together in this society. An important issue has already been addressed to the public today, and there is also an amendment concerning civil servants or, as has already been mentioned, the military service. I would also like to stress that this is a military service. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Ing. Count.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We agree that civil servants in social and charitable institutions are no longer to be thought away, Mr Leikam – if he is among us. One point in which we do not agree, however, is to take account of the endless expansion of civil service places by saying, because there are very, very many civil servants, so we need more and more civil service places. So far, more and more in places have been organized in a more sensible and less meaningful way, and yet a "Stau", Mr. Ex-Minister Schlögl, was created by 17 000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Mr. Schwamlein! You can count, you're always very good at counting: This "storage" of 17 000 has not been available since February of this year, but it has been created in recent years. And the cost explosion is also the very big question. That is why there is the rescue program of Federal Minister Strasser. This rescue programme guarantees that civil servants will be available for rescue, relief organisations and the second-place disabled organisations for June and October. The disabled organisations are therefore not neglected, as Mrs Haidlmayr said, but they are in second place. And there was also disaster aid and agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It should be underlined that the "Civil Service New" working group has been set up to reduce these 17 000 in order to ensure life, vocational and training planning for civil servants. The fact that there are additional civil service places for full payers should also be underlined, because those who are willing to pay in full should be supported. There should also be nominal allocations with regard to the place of residence. The day-to-day meal must, of course, be secure, and barracks and large kitchens are called here. Ladies and gentlemen! The memorial service was also addressed: In the 2000 budget, 4 percent more than in 1999 are planned for commemorative service. In addition, civil service – which was already a general consideration at the time of its introduction – should in no way affect jobs. - So much for civil servants. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The light shines!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think this program can be seen. It corresponds to the facts, and Federal Minister Strasser has done a special job with his officials in this field. I thank you very, very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, it is not possible for me to go to the Security Academy. However, I would like to stress that I am very glad that this Security Academy is now no longer at the stage of the Spatial Foundation and the laying of foundations, but will be implemented, which will certainly represent a quantum leap for a future-oriented training of executives.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13432	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13453	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits asked what security is, in fact, what safety is, especially for the citizens. – I would like to say to you: The citizen then feels secure when he has the feeling of living under orderly conditions and being able to move freely in the cultural environment he wants. Therefore, any negative change in this security and any increase in crime mean a deterioration for him subjectively, even if Europe has seen the Austrian crime rate as relatively low, which is a good thing. In fact, citizens see and feel a deterioration not least as a result of what we think is too open borders under socialist foreign policy. The citizens have a very fine feeling for this and cannot be shaken by manipulations with statistics, as some of them have been tried. It is true that the total number of criminal offences has fallen slightly. However, the number of violent offences has increased, and this is particularly painful to the citizen. This is particularly true of the old and very young. Unfortunately, it is an unbelievable fact that it is sometimes enough to have 20 S in the bag today to be attacked by youth gangs – there were now some examples for this. And also the age level and the inhibition threshold are falling more and more. The new coalition is determined to counter this development. New laws can play an important role in this, especially when they make it clear that perpetrators who have so far been attacked with seed gloves in some areas will not get away with it so cheap anymore. A good example of this is the intensification of the criminal provisions in the towing industry which have already been mentioned. Finally, any successful tow action means that new illegals in the country have to live on something, and the financing of life acquisition is in most cases done in an illegal and also criminal manner. But also in everyday life, in the small criminals, among the young people organized in gangs and gangs, violence is unfortunately increasing, using weapons and concrete – I have mentioned it before, and today you will find another example in the newspapers – using knives. We are not used to this, this does not correspond to our cultural circle, and I say clearly to you: We don't want to get used to that either. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the Greens and the Liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In this context, justice is required: Whoever is taken in the face of violent crimes must be severely punished, and if he is non-Austrian, who does not necessarily have to go to an Austrian court, then he must be pushed off! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] I do not know if you want to raise your voice for knife stickers, Mrs Colleague. You are left with this, and the voters are left to judge it! There is only one area in Austria that has the monopoly for violence, and that is the executive, and so it should remain! Of the executive, we demand proportionate but determined commitment, even in the case of abuse of the rights in the field of demonstration and the extortion of violence in those who believe to be able to resist and in doing so approve of violence against things and also body injuries. It has already been mentioned today: If a person shoots cops with light guns or flashlights, that's when he hits them accordingly – in the specific case, a sign was by chance between them –, tried murder, Mrs. Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] You can't talk about that! Such a shot, fired at a short distance, acts like a gun ball or even worse, because it causes burns. You and your left wing do not mind speaking the word to these people! I am, however, grateful to God that not all Social Democrats, unlike the Socialists, think as you do, Mrs Colleague! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This warning, however, is addressed not only to the demonstrators, but also to some senior officials of the Federal Ministry, and in particular to the Vienna chief of police who has already been addressed today, who has shown special understanding of the Krawalliers and who have apparently forgotten the citizens whose property was damaged and also his injured comrades. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I don't want to restrict anyone's personal right of demonstration, and he also said he was there in his spare time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] But I'm saying: If, during the greatest demonstration of this republic, the chief of police can take time off in this city, then something can not be done on the system! That's probably not how it's going! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, such a man would be in the wrong place if he was unable to learn. This budget provides the Ministry of the Interior with the necessary financial resources to carry out its important tasks. Personally and especially with regard to the quality of the officials, the conditions for this are clear, and these officials can expect our full support in their hard work! Support means not to give everything that is required. That's right. The bureaucracy, too, tends to arrond power and rights. But this House and Parliament are here to keep this under control. Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of the Interior will, even if you want to exclaim it, not become a police ministry in the future, but a Ministry of the Interior to protect our citizens. We have our full confidence in the officials of this ministry. They will receive our support and also the necessary laws that they need for their heavy and important work for the citizens of this state!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13576	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. The remaining speaking time of the ÖVP is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13598	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ side! In view of the short time I have left, I will be limited to the essentials, namely personnel statistics and personnel development, as it is to us. I do not deny the SPÖ that it is now asking for something it has been able to fulfil for a long time, namely, 30 years. I don't blame you for that! This is the right of opposition. However, I would suggest that you have slept for a very long time, at least 20 years, in which you could have introduced reforms in good time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the security field, a lot has changed and done a lot. Some things have also been done in the field of technology, particularly in the interests of security guards and police and executives as a whole. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But go, really? You're so hot!]] Listen to me! Then you know what I'm talking about! In the area of equipment and infrastructure, too, there have been many new developments, and our security spokesman Paul Kisshat fought like a lion and had to take off any concession, ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's why I'm really glad that we now have a couraged minister who says: I'm making reforms! This is very necessary, because if one assumes that the human resources will remain roughly the same in the future, then one will have to consider how to optimally organize the existing activity in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Hand out of the pocket!]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You're just bothering me! I'm not looking at it at all, because there's nothing going on anyway...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13670	Ladies and gentlemen! It's beautiful when the house is so full, but you can't understand anything now. [[Abg. Oils: He provokes the contradiction!]] Double the amount of Members require half that volume, then it goes out! – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13697	Thank you, Mr President. – Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder why reforms have not been launched long ago. All the experts have agreed: Make reforms! – Our Minister Strasser is now reserved to launch a Kripo reform, which includes an increase in efficiency and in which forms of organization are developed, which enable security work without friction losses, and which allows the national to connect with the international police. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as time allows, I bring some examples from practice. [[Abg. May. Posch: Please take a few examples!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you very much for Maybe that'll bring you something! Maybe then you can also think about the fact that there are very good experts within the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thank you, Mr. Oberlehrer!]] In Graz, a small town that may perhaps be known to you, it is the state capital of Styria, with the support of the city of Graz and the country – your head of state, Schachner, this idea has joined the Graz People's Party at the time – a criminality atlas that Dr. Klaus Krainz from the University has developed together with the Max Planck Institute. This crime atlas is no more and no less than a guideline for the executive, in which information can be found about the time at which some offences occur so that you can take precautions in good time. With this paper, the Graz police are currently working, and I could imagine that the executive in Austria will be provided with all such documents so that the work can be done after such a guideline. – This is a small example, and I am convinced that in the marketing sector and in advertising for the security police, we really need new orders and attacks! Ladies and gentlemen! Reforms need visions and a portion of courage. Reforms need, however, especially...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13754	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13769	Minister! Thank you for having the courage and the vision to launch such criminal police reforms!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13800	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schlögl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13818	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr President. At the beginning, I would like all Members to praise: I wish our chairman of the Toni Leikam Committee all the best for today's birthday! [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Two years ago we held a similar debate in this House, namely in May 1998. At that time, the 1999 budget was discussed, and then the political distributions and the political situation were different. At that time, social democracy, together with the Austrian People's Party, decided on a record budget for the Ministry of the Interior, which is more than 23 billion schilling. We were all very proud of this record budget at the time! There has been great praise from Social Democracy for this budget, and there has also been great praise from the Austrian People's Party. The Freedom Party was far too small for this budget. They have called for much more and have vehemently criticized the shortcomings in this budget. Only the Greens behaved as they did today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! I wonder how, within a very short time, you can make such a change of direction and a turning of opinion as you have done today! Sometimes I believe that you have a memory wound to an extent that has hardly ever occurred in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! I ask you: Don't be child-moving! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All that has happened in security policy in the past decade or in the last 15 16 years, whether positive or negative, has been decided jointly by Social Democracy and the Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I think it simply unscrupulous when speakers from the Austrian People's Party now criticize things that have been jointly borne by both parties in recent years. That's unscrupulous! This is a process I cannot understand and support! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget used to be far too small for you. Now you criticize that we have spent too much money – I am the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance out of service. For example, I would just like to remind you of press releases by the Lower Austrian People's Party at the beginning of 1999: At that time, as Minister of the Interior, I allowed myself not to fulfil the 1998 budget, in which I had almost 23 billion schillings available to say and write 26 million schillings, a little more than 0.1 percent, and not spend that sum. So I saved it. In the broadcasts it was said: Schlögl is at risk of security, he feels like the big savings in federal politics, he is the saver at the federal level and the like. These were the press releases of the Austrian People's Party of Lower Austria, carried by the then clubman of the Austrian People's Party Lower Austria, who is now Minister of the Interior. [[Ironic amazement at the SPÖ.]] This is an insatiable policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it can happen that what you do will come about later! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I didn't see the TV show on Sunday. But I was told that my dear friend Klubobmann Khol – my supposedly great mentor in the last three years of my work as Minister of the Interior, who has carried a lot with me – cannot remember the situation of the civilians in Austria and that he has heard for the first time that we are supposed to have a fragile situation. I would like to point out that it was Klubobmann Khol who, together with me in 1999, contributed to the fact that we received more money from our Minister of Finance Rudi Edlinger for civil service. We decided a supplementary budget in 1999 and increased the amount to almost 1 billion schilling. He's been there at every government meeting. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... forgetfulness!]] No one can tell me, ladies and gentlemen, that he did not know that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party – I suffer from memory wounds. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'm trying to explain to you that I want to get you as an alliance partner on this question. The Austrian People's Party and Minister of the Interior of Strasser claim that there are suddenly 17 000 civilians who do not have a civil service place; so to speak, we have a standstill of 17 000. That's what I'm suffering from memory wounds. I was up to 4. This year's Minister of the Interior, and until then there were between 10 000 and 11 000. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You have never been able to count well!]] Now, in these three months, there is suddenly a wonderful increase to 17 000. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the calculation you were never strong!]] That is not true, ladies and gentlemen, there are 17 000 backstowers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the calculation you were never strong!]] That's an invention. These 17 000 are caused by the fact that we had between 10,000 and 11,000 at the end of the year; if you count on the requests of this year, you get 17 000. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Edlinger still believes that there are only 20 billion deficits!]] But if you're serious, you'll have to subtract those who've run their civil service this year. That will also be at least 6,000. 17 000 fewer than 6 000 are 11 000. So are the numbers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to address the budgetary reality at all. In the field of civil service, this budget has suddenly recorded explosion-like additional revenue. I will look at the billing if there really is this explosion-like surplus revenue. There will not be them, or at most, if you have the courage – but the courage has left you fortunately – that you will significantly increase the cost contributions. But we will not agree with that, and against it we will be clear. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I think it is completely wrong to increase the cost of civil service organisations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also a complete March that the planning sites have been shortened in recent years. On the contrary: Since 1990 there has been a continuous upward development of the planning sites. Last year, through the support of the Minister of Finance, we received 400 planning posts more in the Ministry of the Interior. That's exactly the 400 that are being dismantled this year. This is also an unsavory policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as the ADONIS radio project is concerned, I agree that you really have to think about making economical initiatives. I think this project with 8 billion schilling is also an exaggeration. That project I started is one that costs up to 5 to 6 billion schilling – together with the federal states. We have launched appropriate initiatives to guarantee this. We only need a digital radio system, otherwise security is at risk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would just like to say to the rescue helicopters: There is an urgent need for new rescue helicopters to be purchased. This is also a contribution to the security of our country. – Unfortunately, since the red light is already shining, I can't say everything anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14012	Mr Schlögl, I have set a voluntary speaking time. This is not, as it were, a compelling light. The total speaking time of the SPÖ club is 10 minutes. Only for a voluntary speaking time did I set the clock to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14038	I would like to make two or three more comments. Federal Minister Strasser! Of course, there are some that I appreciate in your work so far – even if I believe that you have failed in the budgetary negotiations and that you have negotiated a budget that really endangers the security of this country – not in the short term, but in the medium term. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Edlinger still believes today, we don't have a budget hole!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I appreciate the way in which you - and listen to Mrs Bauer, this is now a praise to the Federal Minister - I appreciate the way in which you, together with our officials from the Ministry of the Interior, managed the demonstrations. That's what you did very well: You have exercised restraint, and you have shown democratic sense of responsibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But this has not only shown the interior minister Strasser, but also all our officials and above all one who has been particularly criticized today, namely General Schnabl. He's one of the best people we have in this ministry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also liked that you recently told the "Kurier" that you want to have the remorse of the perpetrators in politics. – And I liked your courage that you said: The culprits are Kärntner's head of state, Haider and Vienna's Chief of Freedom, Kabas. – I would like to congratulate you on this, too, Minister of State Strasser! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I'm asking you to do that. You don't become a culprit yourself. That is why I do not understand your attacks that you have directed against our Federal Party chairman Gusenbauer by comparing it with the arsonist of St. Georgen. This is also an unsavory process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, unfortunately, the 2000 budget for the internal market remains very much indebted. It is a budget that no longer creates security, but rather the flaw of reducing security in that country. That is why we will not give our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14128	The Federal Minister has spoken. The remaining speaking time is 3 minutes; 20 minus 17. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14149	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make three comments to my previous speaker. In fact, the 1999 budget is a record budget. It has included the number of 23, 196 362 billion schilling. The Federal Estimate 2000 is 23.227 904 billion Schilling. It is interesting that Parliamentary Schlögl referred to the budget of Minister Schlögl as a record budget, but that Parliament Schlögl referred to the budget of Minister Strasser, who is up by 31 million schlölling, as one with which he had failed in the budget negotiations. That's interesting! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Secondly, I should like to say: I cannot understand your quick account of the 17 000 civilians. But I would like to thank you for finding that 10,000 young men are currently seriously affected in their life planning. We will do everything we can to reduce this quickly and to implement it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, Mr Schlögl, I am pleased that you feel that the purchase of rescue helicopters is urgently needed. ==References== You did not see this clearly on February 2000, otherwise you would have signed the act instead of handing over the act to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14195	Mr Schlögl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Second word; remaining speaking time: Seven minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14269	Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have to correct the Federal Minister. It's not true that I gave him an act for the rescue helicopter purchase. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Nothing at all you have handed over!]] [[Further lively calls at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The act prepared by the Federal Ministry of the Interior is an act for the purchase of five executive helicopters, but not rescue helicopters. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] The purchase of rescue helicopters is another procurement process, which is also very urgently necessary. But we don't need five, but at least eight to ten helicopters. [[Abg. Nürnberger: After 100 days the Minister does not know yet!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, of course, a budget for 2000, which is as high or almost as high as the 1999 budget, which has only a difference of 31 million schilling, is significantly lower in actual figures. [[Call the ÖVP:Higher!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 31 million are in debt at 400 million...!]] You must add the rate of inflation, and you must add the costs for the salaries, ladies and gentlemen. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] In this ministry, salary and biennials are at least 350 million schilling. If you add that, this amount is less in the 2000 budget. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now I know how the hole gets into the cash register!]] That you have less money is also clear because you have to make all these savings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last one: We have never disputed that there is a backlog of civil servants. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now at once!]] We have started everything so that this stagnation can be reduced step by step. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: 10,000!]] But what you're doing, ladies and gentlemen, makes him rise. If you assign fewer civilian servants, it can't be less, it'll become more. That's quite clear, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14413	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I do not have a wish by a rapporteur for a final word. We therefore come to the votes. The first vote on Mrs Haidlmayr's request to refer the item of negotiation back to the Budget Committee – that is to say, that part of the budget deliberations that are under discussion today. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this referral request for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are therefore voting on the advisory group IV of the Federal proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapter 11 of the Federal estimates and the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate. Mr Leikam and Mr Group have tabled an amendment. I will therefore first vote on the approaches to be taken by this amendment and then on the remaining parts of the Advisory Group, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Leikam and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment to the draft estimates 1/11177 and 1/11178. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are following the amendment tabled by Mr Leikam on this point to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the proposal as it stands. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign in this regard. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall vote on the remaining... [[Abg. Edlinger: Very scarce!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The voters have decided that we are more!]] [[Further calls.]] We shall vote on the remaining parts of the advisory group IV of the draft proposal for 2000. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a positive sign. – This is decided by a majority. I propose that we vote on the motions for resolutions at once. – There will be no objection to it. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Leikam on retirement time for ordinary and extraordinary civilians to compensate for the unsocial effects of the FP/VP reform. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, Mr Leikam, to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No majority again!]] We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl against the massive negative and non-social effects of the VP/FP Civil Service Act-Novelle. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kuntzl to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No majority again!]] The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14528	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 166/A to 170/A were tabled. Questions 804/J to 811/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 18. May, 9 a.m. On the agenda is the report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template 60 and 60 – that is the Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 –: social security, health, youth and family, finances; then the text of the Federal Finance Act, establishment plan, vehicle plan and final votes. There will be no Question Time at tomorrow's sitting. The sitting is closed.
