ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2877	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you all very warmly, ask you to take the places, and explain the 40. Meeting of the National Council, which I will hold today, Wednesday, 18. In October 2000, 10 a.m. The Official Protocol of 39. Meeting of 12. In October 2000, the European Parliament's Directorate remained open, without any opposition, and is therefore deemed approved. For today's meeting as prevented, MEPs are reported Dobnigg, Lackner, Schieder, Fischl, Dr. Ofner, Wenitsch and Zierler. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e2911	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3262	Before I go into the Meritum of today's session, I can very respectfully welcome our President-in-Office, who has appeared here as a guest of the National Council. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3289	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request that the written question of Dr Gusenbauer and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats put to the Minister for the Interior concerning FP-Spitzelaffaire before entry into the agenda be dealt with urgently – illegal transfer of police data to third parties. Under those provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which you all know, this urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3314	Before entering the agenda, I should also like to say that Mrs. Dr. Moser has requested that the Transport Committee report on a federal law amending the Telecommunications Act be given a deadline until 21. This year. In this context, Article 43 of the Rules of Procedure requested that a short debate be held on this request. Since the urgent debate on a written request has just been announced at today's meeting, this brief debate will be held after the urgent request has been completed. The vote on the request for a deadline will then be taken after the short debate. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3341	Ladies and gentlemen! There is a request for the first reading of the Government's proposal concerning the Federal Finance Act for 2001 and its investments. The House has to decide on this request. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the implementation of a first reading of the Federal Finance Act to be a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3376	I have the proposal to summarise the debate on points 9 to 13 of today's agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. That is why we will proceed in this way, summarising the debate on Agenda items 9 to 13. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for 2001 and investments
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3407	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I can give the Federal Minister for Finance the floor to his budget speech. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3431	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President of the National Council! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The financial and economic policies of this Federal Government are an expression of a fundamental paradigm change. We want to benefit from globalisation as an opportunity for our country and not build walls around Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We stand for a liberal and fair market economy, see competition and competition as a positive challenge in order to improve our own performance every day. The networking of our world, the enormous dynamic of our time, the electronic revolution – we must use these developments for an attractive economic location and for well-paid jobs in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We therefore see the solution of many of our country's problems in less state dirigism and more market economy and private initiatives, in less restriction of freedom by an incredible amount of offers and bans and more self-reliance and self-determination within the meaning of an open and democratic society, in less differentiation in the distribution of social benefits and more social justice for the really needy. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Our commitment is to develop a new quality of an economic and social model case of Austria in the middle of a common Europe. We must set new benchmarks, in financial policy, in economic policy and in social policy. This government has dared to move to the future! This set-aside will implement a sustainable financial policy, a sustainability that will allow us to continue to pay pensions to our older generation in 30 years' time and under fiscal conditions which will promote the young generation's efforts to continue to carry out state investment, will provide necessary impetus in future-oriented areas, such as research and development and education, without the huge government debt having more than one-fifth of the Federal's tax revenue for interest rates and destroying any scope, as it is currently the case that capital formation becomes natural through acquisition of corporate shares in all social classes and leads to a new form of responsibility and co-operation between employees and management, that small and medium-sized enterprises will receive benefits through attractive and fair conditions, as these enterprises are the basis of our economy, they are those who employ the majority of workers, and they are also those who make a good part of the taxes, a sustainability of financial policies which will also allow them to live in poverty-making. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Re-enlightenment with the liberals and the ÖVP]] Only such sustainability of our financial policy will allow us to secure prosperity and democratic institutions of our country in the future. In other words, we must succeed in regaining the future capacity of the public sector and thus of the entire state, which the former governments lost through clear reform inability. It is also about ending, ladies and gentlemen, a falsely understood Keynesianism, which, in the form of Austrokeynesianism, has served as an excuse for huge national debt and to free the country from debt again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it must be our desire to rethink a new Austrian school of the National Economics. This is all the more important than knowing what this austrokeynesianism, this school of increasingly spending money, has led to this program of consistent indebtedness. Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken over our country with more than 2,000 billion shillings of debt. In addition, there were huge out-of-budget debt: 50 billion Schilling at the Austrian Federal Railways, 46 billion Schilling at the ÖIAG, 82 billion Schilling at the ASFINAG, 36 billion Schilling at the Post- and Telekom Participation Society, 16 billion Schilling at the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, 35 billion Schilling in the rail infrastructure company, 14 billion Schilling in the Environmental and Water Economic Fund. All Austrians therefore have to pay more than 680 million schillings every day at interest and repayments, which is a total of 250 billion schillings a year! These are, only to illustrate the dimensions, more than the total educational expenditure, including the expenditure for all schools, colleges and universities in Austria, all lnfrastructure expenditure and the entire social budget of the federal government combined! Of course, such high repayments for old debt lead to manoeuvrability, to the loss of scope for design and to massive restrictions on future initiatives. Inconspicuously, such high repayments also result in a very high tax and tax rate. All Austrian workers could earn more by about 7 000 s net per month, but they would not have pursued such an irrational and irresponsible policy for 30 years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mortgage is the principle: Not only the past, but also the future has already been massively burdened with financial commitments. A study of an international research group has shown that Austria's debt ratio would not only be slightly more than 65 percent, but 196 percent of the gross domestic product would be involved in the commitments already entered into by Austria in the future in the form of debt and in the form of pension commitments, as measured by the 1995 legal situation. Only a few countries have been burdened as much for future generations as has been done for Austria by past governments. Huge debt, massive financial burdens, and all of this in an international environment where eight Member States of the European Union are already making surpluses. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Budgetary surpluses are considered necessary in Europe in order not to spend too high a share of public revenue on debt interest rates and to open up scope for a future-oriented design of our living conditions. It is important to present our national economic policy to the European partners in order not to always follow the international trends. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Thus, a continuation of the current policy would have meant that Austria would have, by far, the highest re-indebtedness of over 2.0% of the gross domestic product in the European Union in the next few years. Austria's creditworthiness in international capital markets would also have been affected, which would have meant a major risk to economic growth and employment in Austria. Not least, interest payments would be expected which would have a negative impact on the investments of the economy and the state, but also on our public debt. A significant weakening of the economic location, declining growth, higher inflation and higher unemployment would be the consequences. Not only does the international environment force us to consolidate quickly, but also the fact that we currently have the best economy for more than ten years. The order books of our companies are full, with an unemployment rate of only 3.1 percent in September 2000, we have almost full employment in Austria, the investments in Austria reach record values, the exports are running excellent, the economy is booming, but the state is a rehabilitation case. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is no alternative: We must finally halt this responsible, unsocial and prosperous development. Therefore, it is now the right time to reorganise state finances. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These are the reasons why Mr. Wolfgang Schüssel and Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Susanne Riess-Passer, together with me, have invited two reform dialogues to achieve a national consensus on a new financial policy. We stand for a financial policy that is already thinking of the morning, a financial policy that is not run at the expense and expense of our children and grandchildren, for a financial policy that ensures that the Austrian economy – as well as in a corresponding Wifo study – can continue to afford some 325 billion schilling a year for pension payments to an older generation, that it can continue to spend some 250 billion schilling a year on a high-quality health system in Austria, that it can continue to provide at least 73 billion shilling for family benefits and around 39 billion shilling for support in unemployment. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] We want a financial policy that makes social justice a reality and takes responsibility for the future of our children and grandchildren. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You know, ladies and gentlemen, that it has succeeded in agreeing a national consensus on a new financial policy objective with all the political parties represented in Parliament, all the federal states, the representatives of the Federal Chamber of Labour, the Federal Chamber of Labour, the Trade Union, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture and the two economic research institutes IHS and Wifo. I am very grateful for the fact that everyone has contributed to the consensus, because it is time for a reasonable policy, in which revenue and expenditure of the State correspond in the medium term, no longer made new debts at a time of high economic activity and therefore no new future burdens on the population will be necessary. This is a turning point in financial policy, a paradigm change that we owe to our subsequent generations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Success recipes do not always have to be complicated. Just as the loss in a company is the biggest enemy of jobs, the deficit of a country is the greatest enemy of economic prosperity. The basis for a good social policy is always an efficient economic policy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government is presenting to you the 2001 proposal, which represents an important step in this direction towards a balanced budget of the general state. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The future budgets will also be the result of this consistent financial policy. Only in this way are we reliable and justify the trust of the population. Only in this way can we create framework conditions for full employment, for full order books of our companies, for inflation-free growth, for the highest standard of living of our population and for the maintenance and improvement of prosperity in Austria. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! A balanced budget is certainly not a self-interest, but will also open up new scopes for the economic priorities of the Federal Government in addition to the positive effects on private consumption and investment. These include in particular: First of all, the introduction of child allowance for all from 1st century onwards. January 2002. – We see this as a small compensation for society towards those who take the effort and financial burdens to secure the future of this country by bringing up the next generations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, is proud that we can set this particular focus on family policy. This is a real milestone, a signal to families and to children's households that children are invaluablely valuable. We can be proud to be one of the most child-friendly countries in Europe. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Reduction of additional labour costs. – For many years in Austria, we have been discussing the very high indirect load of labour force. Compared to the OECD average, we pay more labour-related taxes by 9.5% of gross domestic product. This government is convinced: You've talked long enough, now it's time to act! We will reduce additional labour costs by 15 billion Schilling by 2003 and thus upgrade Austria's economic location and relieve labour force. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, an offensive in research and development to ensure the future of our country. In addition to the 17 billion schilling we spent in the previous year on research and development, we have planned 10 additional billion schilling cumulatively for the next three years, of which 7 billion shilling for research and development and 3 billion schilling are provided for additional infrastructure measures. Considering that, for example, a country such as Finland, which was in serious difficulties a few years ago due to the collapse of the Soviet Union and which had to accept declines in gross domestic product up to 7 per cent per anno, has now reached a budget surplus of 4 per cent of gross domestic product, the majority of which is used for research and development, one must say: It shows the urgent need for action that we in Austria also have in this area. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the long term, investment in research and development will also decide on the level of employment and wage levels in our country. It must not come from international development to decouple our country. We need to create a restructuring of the economy towards the New Economy. That is why we will start a dialogue with research, with universities, with the economy and with the federal states. Through competition of ideas, those projects are to be found with the greatest impact on our country, for more value added and for new qualified jobs. The objective must be to multiply the resources provided by taxpayers. We will implement an R&D offensive, as no federal government has done before us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is not about abstract visions, ladies and gentlemen, but about making this path real. What is behind it is the life-sickness of people, is the safeguarding of the quality of life of younger and older generations, is a fair and just social compensation, is the realization of actual social justice. This objective can only be achieved through a consistent consolidation rate with a good mixture of mostly expenditure-side and, to a lesser extent, revenue-side measures. The need for consolidation of around 90 billion schilling in 2001 is realized by about 62 percent on the expenditure side and only 38 percent on the revenue side. The draft estimates for 2002 will increase expenditure-side measures to almost 70 percent. This involves a clear commitment by the Federal Government to sustainable structural reforms on the expenditure side. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The draft estimate for the 2001 Federal Government estimates revenue of 780.7 billion schilling and expenditure of 813.5 billion schilling, thus providing an administrative net deficit of around 32.8 billion schilling or 1.1 percent of the gross domestic product or a Maastricht deficit of around 43.2 billion schilling or 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product. The general government deficit will be around 0.75% of gross domestic product. This presupposes that countries, cities and municipalities can actually achieve the desired surplus of 0.75% of GDP. The Heads of State or Financial Officers have already adopted a basic decision on this subject on Monday this week. Similarly, a corresponding agreement could be reached with the representatives of the Municipal and Municipal Governments. This will allow the conclusion of a new, mandatory and sanctioned stability pact between the Federal Government, countries, cities and municipalities by means of an agreement under Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act in the coming weeks. I would like to thank all the heads of state, chief of state Stix, head of state Sausgruber and head of state Haider, the financial representatives of the countries and the representatives of the cities and the municipalities, for their willingness to make such an important and great contribution to the renovation of our state finances. This is anything but self-evident and shows their great responsibility for the state mechanism and for the future of our population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is a very great success to consolidate expenditure for the first time in the history of the Second Republic with the countries, cities and communities to agree to the conclusion of a new financial balance in this order, which will help some 29.5 billion schillings to bring our state finances in order – at least 23 billion schillings in the form of Maastricht-effective surpluses, another 3 billion shillings in cash by means of a pre-disbursement of income in the Community's federal taxes and another 3.5 billion shilling by joint structural reforms of the administration, which should lead to expenditure cuts on the federal side. For this purpose, a small and efficient group of experts will be used to present, within six months, structural reforms for a citizen-oriented and service-oriented administration in accordance with the following criteria: less bureaucracy – for this, more convenience for citizens, fewer levels of administration – for this, more professional customer orientation, less restrictions on the economy through countless authorisation procedures – for this, more private-sector performance orientation, fewer queues in the office – for this purpose, more electronic handling of citizens. These will be the objectives of our reform efforts. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A comprehensive reform of our administration is reflected in all the activities of this Federal Government. We need to make it possible to transform our state into a service and service state, which is still clearly defined by k.u.k. sovereignty structures. A very essential condition for this will be the transfer of the anachronistic, protected sector to the competitive society. Unfortunately, we still have a multi-class society, a protected sector with social security, chambers, municipal, state and federal staff on the one hand, private sector with competition, competition and performance orientation on the other hand. The perspective of the Public Service Union and the Federal Government should therefore be to change these structures permanently for the better. There is no longer any objective justification for different labour law and service law. There is no longer any justification for Pragmatization, with the exception of a few less high-privileged areas. Equal opportunities for all, labour law, service law and pension rights for all. The permeability of systems, greater flexibility and performance orientation, a change from private to public economy and vice versa, must be our medium-term objective. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Only in this way will it be possible to improve the image of public servants who are often wrongly criticized. We need to build a new state, another state. Where the market can do things, we don't need a state. Where the regulatory function of the State is further needed, that is, wherever there is market failure, such as in the social sector, in the health field, we need to ensure the sustainability of the state's financing power, we even need a stronger state than today, we need to secure these functions permanently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Historically, when we were thinking of China, when we were thinking of Prussia, even though we were thinking of our monarchy, public service and its structures were often a model for society and for the economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Against this background, we have already begun to raise the potential of our administration and adapt it to social developments. 11 000 planning posts are to be reduced by the end of this legislative period, and distributions with an impact on more than 4,000 planning posts have already been agreed. We have launched numerous administrative reform initiatives, which are coordinated with one another by involving international business advice. We are in the process of reducing the extensive reporting activities of the resorts, reorganising the federal procurement system to achieve the best possible purchasing conditions, making the real estate use of the federal government more efficient by transferring the properties to the federal real estate company, introducing new methods of controlling and cost accounting, developing performance indicators, reorganising service travel, converting public accounting to standard software, forcing the expansion of e-government, further reform of service law, implementing exclusions in such a way as to enable efficiency improvements in the distributed unit, and implementing private-public partnership models in the federal administration. These measures will bring expenditure cuts of around 5 billion Schilling in 2001, around 11 billion Schilling in 2002 and around 15 billion Schilling in 2003. These are the savings targets for the next few years. The population has a right to a slim, modern, efficient state, the best administration in Europe. That's the vision we have to fill with life! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In general, the tasks of the State need to be checked to ensure that they cannot be solved more efficiently by another form of organisation, in particular through private initiative. In order to ensure that part of the public tasks will be converted into private or that the state can withdraw into a regulatory function. The remaining tasks of the State will have to be carried out with significantly increased productivity. This is to be done on the one hand by changing the organisational structure of the public sector, and on the other hand by building up a more comprehensive management system in this area. There is no doubt that where the state has taken over private economic functions and on the basis of many benchmarks, these functions can be performed better by private individuals, such as Austria Tobacco, Telekom Austria, Vienna Airport, Printmedia AG, Dorotheum and State Printing, for example, it makes sense to privatise them immediately. Preparations are to such an extent that privatisations can be carried out in the next and the following year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As the first privatisation measure in compliance with the ÖIAG privatisation programme, 100 percent of P.S.K's shares were made. sold to BAWAG at the price of 17.8 billion schilling. I can use this opportunity to congratulate the Board of Directors and the new Supervisory Board of ÖIAG very much on this more than successful test. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The reduction in debt services that the privatisation aims to achieve last year, which has benefited almost one-fifth of the Federal Government's net tax revenue, was and remains a decisive objective of this federal government. The use of such a large amount of money for the repayment of past debts is a mortgage that we owe to the short-sighted policy of former governments of this country. There can be no doubt that without this burden, we could enjoy a correspondingly lower tax rate and thus a correspondingly higher economic vitality and greater prosperity. With government debt and pension insurance financed, huge burdens will be shifted to future generations. It was and is our goal to achieve a political balance between the interests of today's generations and those of future generations, thus ensuring the sustainability of the system. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have already adopted a number of measures with the reform of the pension system which will limit the dynamics of pension expenditure in the future. It is quite clear that at a time when demographic development leads to a relatively strong ageing of the population, at the same time many are becoming more and more trained and can therefore contribute to a reduced pension system, changes in the system pro futuro in responsibility for the next generation are necessary. To do this, we need the transition to a multi-column system. The contribution-financed state pension must be supplemented by a capitalised supplementary pension and a further, individually funded third pillar. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A first important step in a highly attractive self-sufficiency has already been taken with the purpose of decommissioning the half-manufacturing amount. The debt reduction programme in implementation is another essential initiative to be able to reduce government expenditure on a sustainable basis. We will use the auction proceeds of UMTS licences by the majority and the privatisation proceeds of lmmobilienverkaufen to the Federal Property Company for debt reduction. We are working on the privatisation of some 60 000 dwellings owned by the federal government in the four housing companies. This contribution is also intended to be used for debt repayment. With the sale of a small part of the Austrian Federal Forest, we will give our farmers the opportunity to increase their agricultural land ownership and make arrondissements. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Jäger Prinzhorn!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This will ensure better management of rural forest areas. Sales will be around 1 per cent of the total Austrian forest stock, with private ownership currently increasing from 81 per cent to about 82 per cent in the future. I would like to stress that there will be no adverse change whatsoever for the Austrian water industry. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With these sales, it will be possible to significantly reduce our financial debt and thus reduce the current interest rate burden by at least 3 billion schilling a year. In the course of the financial settlement negotiations, I also called on the federal states, the cities and the municipalities to take over this debt reduction programme from the Federal Government and also to reduce their own debts to around 135 billion schilling. Instead of a country of debt, we want a future-rich Austria. This is the challenge so that we can give our children and grandchildren a rich country full of opportunities in the midst of a common Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With the levying of various funds in 2001 to an extent of 15.6 billion schilling and a contribution reduced by 2 billion schilling to the Austrian federal railways, the expenditure-side measures we set reach a total of around 56 billion schilling or 62 percent of the need for consolidation. With this we already achieve considerable effects and successes on the expenditure side. I am now saying to all the critics who call for even greater consolidation on the expenditure side and further structural reforms: We will continue this reform policy consistently. Even after reaching our budget objective, we will critically review each area of expenditure and make further cuts in expenditure on a continuous basis. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] At the same time, however, I would also like to stress that the purely expenditure-side consolidation is limited insofar as the social justice of our actions must be the top principle. We have recognised that, without any revenue-based measure, a socially fair distribution of contributions to the different population and income groups is impossible. Consolidation therefore pursues a very clear objective: Whoever deserves more, who is more rich, should also contribute more to the rehabilitation of state finances. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You're not talking about this budget!]] On the revenue side, tax measures are therefore planned totalling around 28.6 billion schilling. It was a particular concern to me that the budgetary consolidation needed and, for the first time, to distribute unfair measures fairly and fairly for the benefit of all the groups of the population, should contribute to fiscal consolidation in accordance with their capacity and that all types of income should be included. The package is designed to contribute to consolidation by the local authorities and the population groups concerned in accordance with their performance and thus socially compatible. Income tax means that income below 30 000 S gross is not taxed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edler keeps a document up to date.]] Thus, more than 75 percent of workers remain untaxed by tax. Similarly, pensioners under 20 000 S are not taxed grossly, so more than 75 percent of pensioners remain untaxed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, the loads with grinding arrangements will become effective. Social hardships are halted by accompanying measures. However, more tax justice also means reducing or eliminating tax gaps, broadening the tax base and removing privileges, especially for economic operators and operators. On the company side, balance-sheet design measures, such as the investment exemption and the tax recognition of provisions, are withdrawn, the transfer of losses over a longer period, the building depreciation is extended to 33 years and truck taxation is significantly increased until road pricing enters into force. All these are measures which represent a significant contribution by the economy to the restructuring of state finances. That is why I would like to thank the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Industry for agreeing to this package. They could do this because they know: Austria's economic location remains highly attractive, and we will once again have a chance to open up a prospect of relief to this country, a perspective that will be necessary both for workers and for employers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe it is important that the wealth also makes a strong contribution. [[Abg. Edlinger: We too!]] This is achieved by doubling the input tax rate for foundations from 2.5 percent to 5 percent and by introducing an intermediate tax on capital income and profits from equity sales of 12.5 percent. Profits from equity disposals should only be tax-free if they are reinvested in substantial investments, ideally in Austrian companies. Furthermore, the basis of assessment for the inheritance and gift tax on real estate is significantly increased. Of about 90 billion Schilling need for consolidation in 2001, more than half or around 52.3 billion Schilling is due to measures in public administration, whether these are the federal administration, funds, federal states, cities and municipalities or public enterprises. The employees make a contribution of about 10.5 billion schilling, the private households making such a contribution of about 3.5 billion schilling, the pensioners making such a contribution of about 4.0 billion schilling. By increasing the retirement age, the federal government saved around 2.6 billion schilling in 2001. Businesses account for around 14.6 billion schilling. Foundations contribute around 2.1 billion schilling. In agriculture, the flatrate rates are increased. Furthermore, the diesel price reduction announced in the Government Convention will not be implemented in 2001 and 2002. This will avoid additional costs for agriculture of around 1.4 billion schilling. A comparison of the revenue-based measures with the savings package 1996 and 1997 shows that 3 million people were affected by income tax at the time. By contrast, of 3.5 million active wage earners and wage earners, 2.6 million are not affected by income tax. The comparison makes us sure! We stand for social justice and social security. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Thus, in the 2001 and 2002 budgets, we have clearly placed the consolidation contributions on the middle and upper incomes. This can be demonstrated both by each measure and by case-by-case examples. Let us remember: The 2000 tax reform, including the family package, resulted in a relief of about 32 billion schilling. The 2000 Budgetary Accompanying Act contained adjustments that lead to an increase of around 11 billion schilling. The 2001/2002 consolidation path provides for tax additional revenue of around 28.6 billion schilling. The following results will be achieved in the balance of these measures and in the analysis of their distribution effect: About 75 percent of taxpayers (employees, pensioners and entrepreneurs' households) are better placed after 2001 than by 1999, with a very clear improvement for the lowest 50 percent of income earners. Even with 5.5 billion schilling, the lower incomes are permanently relieved. Only the top 25 percent of income stakeholders are more taxed. We have thus achieved a redistribution from top to bottom. The comparison makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What do we achieve with this redistribution? . We are funding a tax reform that largely gives 32 billion Schilling to low incomes, and we are thus financing the consolidation path, which will lead us to a zero deficit already in 2002. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, we can handle tax money well. In contrast, Minister of Finance Viktor Klima has increased taxes of 45 billion schilling, also burdened socially weak and thus only stopped budget holes. This comparison also makes us sure! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! We have coordinated revenue planning with the economic researchers of the IHS and Wifo institutes and are convinced to be able to present a realistic numbering work. The basic idea aims at an increasing economy in the public sector. Allow me to present to you some particularly important, selected parts of the 2001 Federal Estimate: Education, science and culture: The future programme "modern study and research" will set new accents at the Austrian universities. The full rights of universities, a new service right, a site adjustment and an organisational reform are the main areas of work here. This overall reform, as usual in other education systems, will also remove study contributions in Austria from the 2001 academic year. An additional university billion is financed for a more attractive offer and a better equipment.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3837	Mr. Federal Minister, please take a second. – The gallery does not have the right to engage in the debate in any way. I ask you to take the place and remove those letters! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the VSstÖ! That was once again!]] Please, Mr. Minister, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e3864	If you receive the study aid, the 10 000 S will be reimbursed in annual contributions. 10 000 other students are included in the aid system and receive a partial refund depending on the financial situation. For this purpose, the budget also includes 450 million Schilling in 2002 and the following. More performance orientation, more competition, more private access, increased quality of training and faster students, these are the results we need to achieve through our reforms. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the Federal estimates 2001 the approaches of chapters 12 and 14 have been increased despite the saving situation and amount to 77.4 billion schilling for education and culture and 31.6 billion schilling for science. Transport, innovation and technology: Of course, the government continues to maintain the objective of increasing the research rate from currently 1.82 percent in 2002 to 2% or the target of reaching a rate of 2.5% for 2005. All the research-related budgets of the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology could be further increased. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] By the year 2000, the Austrian federal railways had been subject to a budgetary under-income, so that the ÖBB had to go into debt with almost 7 billion schilling each year. In 2000, ÖBB's foreign financing needs were reduced to 2.75 billion schilling. There will no longer be a need for foreign financing from 2001 onwards: All financing requirements of the ÖBB infrastructure sector will be financed either through the rail infrastructure financing company or through the ordinary federal budget. In the postal and telecommunications sectors, the policy pursued by the new Federal Government will continue. UMTS licenses are available before auction. In January, the "Wireless Local Loop" frequencies will be auctioned, which will create competition in the area of the Internet for the last customer. The BVA 2001 provides for 41.7 billion schilling for transport, innovation and technology. Agriculture and forestry: The aim of the Federal Government is to maintain and further develop the rural family business. Cross-border agriculture is a prerequisite for intact rural regions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The reform policy of the European Union has assigned to European agriculture a number of important tasks which are indispensable to society. In the next few years, therefore, Austrian agriculture will progress with an improved agricultural environment programme. To this end, the European Union is providing for improved support, which is co-financed by Austria. The same applies to mining promotion. For agriculture and forestry, 25.8 billion Schilling were estimated in 2001. Environment: Austria is promoting a consistent continuation of ambitious environmental policy at both national and international level. Environmental policy will also promote the conservation of national parks, the restoration of old loads and the settlement of water management. From the environmental point of view, the implementation of the Kyoto objective is one of the most important challenges in the coming years. Provision has been made for this in the reform of housing development by means of financial compensation with the countries. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the field of environment, 6.1 billion schilling is planned for 2001. Public security: The areas of activity carried out by the Ministry of the Interior have been systematically reforested. In particular, a completely new system of civil service tasks and settlements and the transfer of flight rescue to a private operator with little administrative effort are saved, while maintaining the existing level of supply. The budget thus released will be used for security-related tasks, in particular in the prevention of crime, crime prevention and crime prevention. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have provided 22.7 billion schilling for this area in 2001 in order to ensure the best possible level of public security in Austria. State defense: The creation of the 2001 defence budget was marked by the particular challenge in connection with the necessary financing and supplementation of the military systems used in the Austrian army. International integration is also a growing challenge for the next few years. For example, the procurement of high-performance transport helicopters can be mentioned. For this area 23 billion schilling is planned for 2001. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Justice: The focus in the field of justice is on speeding up judicial procedures, ensuring security in judicial institutions, the enforcement of sanctions and the use of information technologies. In order to improve security in judicial institutions, the latest technology-based security facilities will be installed. The BVA 2001 provides for a special allocation for this purpose. The improvement of assistance for the victims of crime is a declared concern of the Austrian Federal Government. The significant increase in the resources available to the judicial body for this purpose will enable the assistance to be extended to underage victims of violent crime to other groups of crime victims. The budget allocated to the judicial unit amounts to 11.1 billion schilling in the BVA 2001. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Last example: Art: [[Abg. Swimming: Social things!]] In order to safeguard the high importance of art in Austrian society and maintain high quality in international comparison, cuts in this budget were avoided despite budget consolidation through re-transmissions from other budget chapters and the art budget was raised for the first time over the 3-billion-shilling limit. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On current initiatives of the Federal Government, I would like to mention in particular the draft "Künstler Social Security Act" and the tax regulation of the possible distribution of artists' incomes for three years from May 2000. High house! The 2001 budget must also be seen in its international context. All over the world, the guidelines for a desired economic policy and financial policy have changed. I am also repeatedly being asked why budgetary consolidation must be done so quickly. As the Swedish example shows, a positive government budget is a prerequisite for comprehensive future investment in research and development and new economy. Those countries that can make their surpluses flow in this area have a high competitive advantage in creating sophisticated, innovative jobs and thus a prosperity benefit. In Austria, therefore, the existing residue must be picked up as soon as possible. Therefore, we must not lose time with consolidation, we want to be among the richest countries in the world in the future. I wish that all Austrians would become global winners. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This Federal Government has undertaken not to end the horizon of its political planning – as usual – at the next National Council election, but to go the way of a long-term, sustainable policy. The fact that we do not always reap the approval of the groups concerned is to some extent understandable. However, we trust that, at the end of the day, the vital benefits of the overall concept will also bring back the approval of those who do not yet understand or want to understand the meaning of a measure. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. The Steirs!]] As expected, the global economic climate has improved further. However, high oil prices have an impact on economic growth. The decline in growth calculated by the Austrian economic research institutes as a result of the budget reorganisation of approximately 0.2 percentage points of gross domestic product for 2001 and 2002 is a very low price for a total consolidation of 1.6 percent of gross domestic product in two years. If you sometimes read that fiscal consolidation would stifle the economy, I say clearly: Austria is expecting a very good next year after an excellent 2000 economy. 2.8 percent forecast real growth is significantly higher than the long-term Austrian average. We therefore remain in the international direction of positive economic development, as is expected to be the same for the USA, for the OECD average, for the Member States of the European Union and for Germany. The current high-cost economy is exactly the right time for such a renovation: In years where economic growth is about 3 per cent above potential growth, despite a slight decline in growth, unemployment will continue to decline and employment in Austria will increase. In addition, consolidation in times of strained capacity prevents overheating, dampens internal price upswing trends, and thus contributes to an extension of a non-voltage growth period. Full employment, ladies and gentlemen, will become a reality under this Federal Government – a right path that will also bring us a lot of international applause. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the 2001 budget, which I can present to you today, there is also an attempt to draw the consequences from the threat of the infinancing of state tasks, which should enable the sustainable development of the Austrian economy. The discussion of which tasks the state can still fulfil in the future presents us with great challenges. The Austrian Federal Government has therefore taken the decisive reform steps and will continue to do so consistently. As the first reform budget on the path to a zero deficit, the 2001 budget will have significant importance for the budget and tax policy of many years. In this sense, I am convinced that the budget presented represents an excellent framework for the further development of the Austrian economy and society. Everyone is aware that more and more re-indebtedness can only go at the expense of the next generations. The necessary change in budgetary policy is therefore being made quite consciously. It is important to preserve the work and performance of the building generations, but also to open prospects for our children and grandchildren. We must therefore build a new state in which viable bridges are stretched between generations and a wise balance between legitimate social security claims and the promotion of innovative and creative forces is found in a free market. With this financial policy, we will bring today's reality into line with our social visions of the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! A good day begins with a renovated budget! – This is such a beautiful sentence that you have to say it again: [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] A good day begins with a renovated budget! [[Cheerfulness and new condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The double budget 2001/2002 and the financial compensation score were decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers for a future-rich Austria. We are fully on the path of rehabilitation and will achieve a balanced budget for the first time since decades in 2002 after an important first step in 2001. The Federal Government is thinking about the morning and is now rehabilitating the state budget in a phase of the high economy. This rehabilitation is also highly socially fair, because, compared to 1999, the lower incomes are reduced by 5.5 billion schilling and therefore has more purchasing power available. 75 percent of all Austrians are not burdened by this renovation, and the attractiveness of the Austrian economic location is ensured. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your consent to the 2001 Federal Estimate in the interest of the people for the successful development of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4053	I would like to thank the Minister for his statement to the House. Notice of applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4074	I also announce that, in accordance with § 33 of the Rules of Procedure, Members Dr. Gusenbauer and Comrades requested the setting up of an investigation committee to clarify the allegations concerning the transfer of police data to third parties and the systematic misgiving by members of the security equipment and the investigation of legal and political responsibilities relating to these matters. In this context, there is the request made by five Members to conduct a debate on this request in accordance with the rules of business. In addition, according to § 33 of the Rules of Procedure, MEPs also requested Dr. Pilz and Comrades to use an investigative committee to examine the responsibility of the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs for the illegal transmission of data from his departmental area and the organisational defects in the field of security authorities which have led to the fact that personal data have not been disclosed for years to authorised persons. In this case too, there is a desire to hold a debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, these debates will be held after completion of the agenda. Secondly, there are two options: Either the first request is justified, then all political groups speak for 5 minutes, on which the second request is justified, and once again all political groups receive 5 minutes of speaking time. Should the applicants agree, there would be the second possibility that both applications would be justified in a row with 10 minutes of speaking time and then a joint debate would be held. I ask the applicants to consider in the next few hours which of the two variants will be desired. I think we'll do this: If we insist on separate debates, we shall have to debate separately if there is consensus on a common debate, it can be carried out jointly after the applications have been founded. 2. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on the motion for a resolution 125/A(E) by Mr Mag. Walter Poschund Comrades concerning a report from the Federal Government to the National Council on Human Rights Compliance in Austria (Human Rights Report) (301 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4125	This means we can reach the 2nd place. Agenda item. There is no wish for oral reporting, so we are going into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Walter Posch. The speaking time shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4152	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! After an hour of poetry and truth from the Federal Minister for Finance and Plattimuden, it would be interesting to address the inflated hollow phrases a little, as well as the history of Mr Franz Häusler and his 10,000-S donation, which Mr Finanzminister presented at the last time and where the sender of this donation could not be heard until today. It would be interesting to know, Mr Federal Minister for Finance, whether You may have depended on this donation yourself or how you keep it with the truth and with reality in your place of business. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] [[Call to the liberals: Unheard! That's a joke!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this a budget debate, or what?]] [[Call to the liberals: how the bad thinks!]] Similarly, of course, it would also be interesting to note that all possible chapters are available in this budget speech, only the Social Chapter does not occur. There is a state defence, there is art, there is the chapter Internal Affairs, only the chapter Social Affairs of this Federal Government of Social Security does not appear in the report of Mr Finanzminister to the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – So much should I be allowed to say introductoryly to this completely unnecessary budget speech before I devote myself to our human rights report in 125/A (E). [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Our motion for a resolution on a human rights report is based on three conditions: firstly, that this House should be reported annually on the situation of human rights in Austria; secondly, that government documents, as well as EU conformity, should also be examined for human rights conformity; and thirdly, that, in the implementation of laws and regulations, particular attention should be paid to human rights. This is essentially also in line with the spirit of the government agreement between ÖVP and FPÖ. This corresponds, for example, to the intention of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and also to the EU Human Rights Report. Unfortunately, our report was rejected in the Committee, as many other requests in the Human Rights Committee have not been dealt with or rejected. On the other hand, the government coalition has presented its own resolution stating that a report on the situation of minorities, refugees and immigrants in EU Member States should be submitted to the Austrian National Council and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. – That is exactly what Mr Klubobmann Khol always says in the substance: When you point your finger at others, three fingers point to one. That is the substance of what you think about human rights. I regret that because, in general, the report of the "three wise men" is a positive report on Austria. Austria does not need to hide and has a good tradition, especially what is happening to refugees. The Federal Chancellor rightly advocated the state objective of protecting minorities, which we have jointly decided unanimously, for this government, as well as the topography regulation for bilingualism in the Burgenland. Many other things, such as the death penalty application, have also been decided positively. Nevertheless, I believe that a lot is open in this area of human rights, and this should be addressed here. It is still not possible to talk about § 209 StGB regarding homosexuals, nor about the fact that in Austria people are still in prison because of their sexual orientation, that the debate is still open to the novel of § 283 StGB, hatred that the situation should also be extended to individuals.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4225	May I ask Mr Moser to keep the TV camera free! - Thank you. Please continue, deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4244	It is still open to the debate that the government refuses to talk about the tolerance requests made by the parties at the beginning of this legislative period, including their own. I understand that the ÖVP's application for tolerance for the FPÖ would not be particularly pleasant and that at this point it would no longer be desirable to discuss an area where the ÖVP still had a relatively clear approach to itself. I recall that the establishment of clearing facilities for children's refugees is untreated, because it is in fact an intolerable situation that young people are insubstantial, that the question of family succession within the quota has not been clarified that the question of the Greencard, where you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, have disavowed your own Minister of the Federal Interior – and I can already understand that you are in conflict between economic reason and nationalist regulation of your government partner, that makes you difficult, but nevertheless this, I believe, is a very important matter – and that the question of a cross-cutting anti-discrimination law remains open. – So much about human rights applications. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that in the area of fundamental rights as a whole – that is to say, my colleagues will come to speak intensively, so I can deal with this shortly – it is necessary to be vigilant in the light of the recent events, especially the cautious scepticism about the noise attack at the time was a legitimate one, that the establishment of a Human Rights Commission in the Federal Ministry of the Interior was a necessity and that our group's rejection of the extended risk research was very, very legitimate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this respect, vigilance should also be exercised in view of the recent events, especially in view of the day-to-day suffocation in the face of the recent scandal. If, for example, Mr Ofner, whom I do not wish to blame in principle, has said at the last plenary session – Mr Ofner has at least cooperated in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, and he is always proud of it – the sale of data is a business, is " Zubrot", that is like selling an insurance policy or carrying out the newspaper, then this is an incredible harmonizing of a violation of a fundamental right, namely the fundamental right to data protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] This is an essential human right, and we will not let that happen in the face of this huge attack and attack on freedom of expression and privacy, in the face of arrogance, data clau and intervention against the media. I know your party has its own story. Your story, your threats, that you wanted to march against justice, that you want to persecute Members in the editorial offices, that you wanted to ensure that the truth is written – this history of FPÖ is a special story. I therefore also understand your nervousness and devotion. I'd like to check that out. But I believe that the question of personal human rights is not just a question of decriminalization, but, if people are concerned with public interest, politicians, journalists, artists, this is not only a question of the courts and a question of the Commissions, but also a political question. That is a question of Parliament. That is the question of a committee of inquiry, and that is something that belongs to an investigation committee! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Or the question of freedom of the press and freedom of expression. I believe that alertness is necessary in view of the sluggish change in the country's social climate, when Mr. Klubobmann Westenthal says: "We will expel the party to ORF!", and if ORF editors find out in a unanimous resolution: firstly, that in the "Causa Small Service" there was a multi-day intervention bombardment of the FPÖ Klubobmanns Westenthaler, that there was a fax of the ÖVP club with multi-page detailed criticism, whereby I already want to admit that it is sometimes difficult to draw the line between factual correctness, where it appears necessary, and threat and intimidation. Thirdly, ORF editors say that "compensation contributions" would be required as compensation for alleged "errors". Fourthly, the question of "disruption", further the question of the "data clause". If the journalists of the ORF then decide on the following resolution: "The journalistic evaluation must be exclusively for the editorial staff of the house and not for parties or interest groups. They are not entitled to any influence on topics, forms and scope of reporting," we fully agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If the journalists of the ORF say that they expect the management to hold their own in their definition of what are "rightful complaints" to the saying practice of the Broadcasting Commission and, in principle, assume that criticism from the outside is usually guided by comprehensible interests, then one can expect this, I think, from a management. That this resolution has been unanimously adopted also proves a number of things regarding the spirit and the pressure that exists there, not to mention the threatened beatings for the ORF editor Josef Broukal, not to mention the language that has become hallowed in recent years. The abuses and diffamations are now Legion. For example, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler in the last debate on Mrs Petrovic: "You're a salmon number!" – There is really nothing more to laugh at in this house! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There's really nothing more to laugh at in this house, that's so last-class, that's so low, that's so deep! There is absolutely nothing more to laugh at in this House! That is why I think it is with Mr Klubobmann Khol, who said before the elections: As long as I have something to say in the ÖVP, there will be no coalition with the FPÖ! – I suppose you have nothing more to say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of these monsterities of the last days, I also hold it with Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, who said in the election campaign in 1995 – well, I admit, it is five years ago, five years ago, and one can have changed his opinion; there must have been some positive things in the meantime that you have come to such a fundamental change of opinion against what you said five years ago; I quote you according to the "standard" and you will certainly correct the "standard" quote if I quote it wrong or if the quote is a wrong one –: "I can therefore only say for a number of times that it is not possible for me that Dr. Haider, with his far-reaching ideas of a third republic, is destroying our state and the foundations of human rights. ... Dr. Haider's balled negative energy scares people. ... I don't need Dr. Haider to implement my political ideas." - That's it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Again on his favorite theme!]] I've spoken Hugh or How or Hump or Dump, or I don't know how the Indians say.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4338	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4360	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Martti Ahtisaari, former Finnish President, Jochen Frowein, Director at the Max Planck Institute and former Vice-President of the European Commission for Human Rights, Marcelino Oreja, former Spanish Foreign Minister – these honourable gentlemen have clearly declared in a truly penetrating demonstration of this government that the protection of minority rights in Austria is far more than in many other European states and that the current government is living an open refugee policy. It is also noted that the Austrian government's immigration policy shows its commitment to the common European values. It can also be concluded from the documents that the current Austrian government is in favour of combating racism, anti-Semitism, discrimination and xenophobia. – This testimony, which Austria has been issued, should be a cause of joy for all – really for all – political parties in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not all EU countries can expect such a good witness. For example, the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities has been ratified by only nine EU countries, including Austria. This testimony of the "three wise men" has come in spite of the massive offer of the NGOs who have pushed themselves into the review process in order to adapt the government as much as possible and to give it to the prangler. Ladies and gentlemen! We should really be proud of this testimony that these three honourable men have given us. But why are not all the political parties in Austria proud, but want to label Austria as a country in which human rights are violated? – We have to see again and again that all of this fits into the strategy of political opposition and its attachment, that they always like to see the Austrians as people who do not respect human rights, and Austria as a country where fundamental rights are threatened and so on. But all these accusations, which have been raised on a continuous basis, have proved to be unstoppable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For example, Mr Posch, in his application to the Human Rights Committee, wrote the following: The representatives of a government party do not adhere to the Preamble to the Government Convention. - Please, that's completely out of the air! Mr Posch! How'd you get this submission? Why can you say that? Have you read the report so badly that you have overlooked that these three honourable "wises" of the government confirm: The behaviour of all government ministers cannot be criticized. – Mr Posch! What do you say? – Obviously you have read the report too little or just as much as you want to see it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They're picking out something that fits you into the crab, and then they want to get dissatisfaction. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's terrifying!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, by making such comments as Mr Posch has said today, the improper campaign against the Federal Government is to continue. Obviously, you just want to heat up the climate. And I'll tell you one thing, Mr Posch: The Austrians were deeply annoyed, outraged and upset by the EU sanctions on which such mess-makings are based, as you have done today. I don't think you'll deserve to be with the Austrian people if you continue in this way. I would just like to bring this to your attention once in a while. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's grotesk what you say!]] For eight months, you have fought this federal government with all your means – I say, really with all your means – I would advise you: Finally, stop this campaign, and use it – I call you, Mr Cap! – Your political energy to take this federal government out of the past! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Use your political opportunities to inform the people with us about the urgent need for the zero deficit for a calmed future! Use your political strength to work with us to lay the foundations of the economy so that our youth can look to a secure future, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That would be your job, because you're responsible for the heap of the past. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Posch! Once again on your request, on whose rejection you are annoyed or voted. They demand that every government template and every law be reviewed to ensure that it complies with human rights and fundamental rights. – Yes, please, that is already being done, or do you want to bring a European body into our legislative process? What do you want? Do you want Mrs Winkler, whose Austrian attitude and attitude is known, to review our legislative proposals? - You can't be serious, Mr. Posch and Mr. Cap! Mr Cap, if that is Mr Posch's opinion, I would ask you to draw his attention to the fact that Mrs Winkler is not really the right adviser to Austrian domestic policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's the Kabas!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must take seriously the concerns of the Bishops' Conference in this report. For example, the Episcopal Conference says: It is a radicalisation of the internal climate, a deterioration of the overall political climate. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! When we look at the Thursday demonstrations: Who is behind this radicalization of the climate, who is behind this deterioration? [[Abg. Edellinger: Who?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The Kabas!]] – Clearly the opposition! Your party is behind it, the Green Party is behind it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Posch speaks of an intensification of the political climate here, but he is the first person to speak the budget in a really bad way... – Yes, but Mr President, what Mr Posch said is not without. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's why you already allow me to qualify. For example, Mr Posch said that "diving and truth", "a flattite", "exhausted phrases" was the budget speech. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr President. I believe that this qualification is justified by me. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You always only know when they're saying things wrong, but you never put this strict measure in yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Never!]] I would ask you not always to be blind on one eye, but to judge the facts as it is quite fair. This government programme is an ambitious programme to finally get rid of these debts. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You don't suffer any criticism!]] – I very much agree with criticism, Mr Cap, but you also have to face up to legitimate criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What's right now? Hump or dump?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the Thursday demonstrations, which really show how the climate is being heated up. It is always said that the President of the Police from Vienna – where he is politically, we know – said that these demonstrations are not violent. However, there have been 500 ads for property damage. There were 45 injured police officers. There have been 200 strong groups, using throwshots, they have been against the police. And you want to sell that as peaceful demonstrations? What do you imagine is peace? I think you should have a really far-reaching idea. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ coalition has reduced three savings packages to the Austrian population – by the way with zero effect, with zero impact on the budget and on government debt – and no Green and no Socialist has excited themselves at the time and has said that this is unsocial, that is an action that is against the Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger]] I would like to tell you something more about what the Bishops' Conference has done, which is a fear. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Your speech scares us and scares us! I've rarely heard anything like that! Weeds and beetroots!]] - No! Do you know what apprehension is? – For example, the disguised anarchos that are taken in at the demonstrations. They're causing fear! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or, Mr Jarolim, for example, as Mrs Stoisits has said: the demand that every liberal should receive 20 years' imprisonment in the first place. - You can read that. Or: One of the SPÖ delegates meant that every liberal should take away the passport. – You can read all of this in the stenographic protocols. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's terrifying how you talk!]] - No, that's not terrifying. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] Do you know what causes fear? – For example, the Häupl’s housing policy causes fear, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The greatest fear of the people, however, is – and that after 30 years of socialist government participation – that they do not get a job, that they do not receive housing and that they do not receive a pension. In order to take this fear to the Austrians and to ensure that the Austrians will receive their pensions, that the health system will maintain that they will have an apartment to ensure all this, this government has taken place. And we will enforce this, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You have demasked!]] I would really advise you – including you, Mr Jarolim: Solution You're finally from this polluting and pollution campaign! – What do you mean, I demasked? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You have demasked!]] What are you doing? What's the call? – I was never masked and therefore I do not need to demask. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, stop taking the FPÖ into the tipping action! This top coward is an affair of the interior apparatus, and this interior apparatus has always been executive, for 50 years, socialistly dominated, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edlinger: Mr. Kleindienst...!]] No freeman has had anything to do in there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I'll tell you something: I have always asked all socialist interior ministers – Lösnak, Einm, Schlögl: How is it that Mr Pilz is getting too very critical information? – And each of these socialist ministers of the interior answered me: Well, we can't do anything, that's getting out! [[Abg. May. The Lord Stadler! The shark!]] That is to say, you or yours – I do not want to throw it in person – socialist ministers have failed to establish a real control system in the interior so that no secret data can be transmitted. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's why Schlögl had to go!]] I find this so ridiculous, Mr Posch, that you really do not leave an opportunity to beat political change. Mr Ofner has made a statement of fact by saying that information procurement is a acquisition of money. – That was said without any appreciation. What to do But you're out of it? – They immediately make an evaluation of it. They say he's impoverished, he's approved, in fact, Ofner wants this all-encompassing action or finds nothing in it. - That's just wrong. You've made a valuation that Ofner just hasn't met. They have given him something politically really incorrect, which has never been said at all. Finally, get rid of it! This is not the political culture that you always agree with, Mr Posch! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I know it always sounds at irregular intervals the call for political culture in this house, but I think the sounds are rough in this discussion and it has always been, that is clear to us. You always pretend to be the ones who always have the right choice of words, and only we are the ones who always call themselves wrong – but that is simply not true! That's where you finally have to confess color. Mr Posch! You yourself compared my Clubobmann Westenthaler with Hitler. That's what you did! And that does not testify to political culture either. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This has so far not disturbed the President!]] For example, Mrs Petrovic, who always values her beautiful, fine language of dealing, said that the "frate of injustice" looks out of the social programme. – Is that beautiful, is it a basis for a serious discussion? - No! Mr Kostelka, for example, accused Minister Böhmdorfer of taking place telephone calls in his ministry. But he did not present any evidence for this – that was a purely shake-up action. It seems embarrassing to him now that he has done this, obviously only because of starting a discharge campaign. I really ask you: Raise the call for political culture in the present debate, but also stick to it, and not only point your finger at us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Last but not least, Mr Posch, on refugee policy and family succession. Also this criticism... – Why do you always call "Kabas"? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Kabas!]] This is not at all related to asylum policy. Mr Cap – and you should know that too – asylum policy is decided here in Parliament, and Mr Kabas is a representative of the Vienna Landtag. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The cap can't be different!]] This is where refugee policy is decided. For refugee policy, the Council of "three Wise Men" has given us a first-class award. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It lacks any basis, Mr Posch, for you to condemn refugee policy. You know very well that Austria was always the first country to take up refugees. We don't need to protect ourselves. Why, for God's sake, do you? We have received the Bosnians, although we would not have been legally obliged to do so at all. We and Germany have recorded most of the Bosnians. We have carried out a Kosovo aid campaign. We don't have to blame ourselves. They also know very well, still from the Minister of the Interior at the time, that a burden compensation for these refugees was rejected by the EU. No one supports Austria financially when it comes to carrying the great burden of refugee care. 5 billion schilling alone cost the Bosnier action. Let us be glad that we have done such a great deal, and let us not beautify ourselves without letup! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like once again to ask you to work with us, that you support this government, that you realize that much of what is not going well financially and economically is going back to that time when SPÖ was in the government, and that it would therefore be your fundamental duty to support the efforts of the Federal Government to put Austria on a new, good, consolidated basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4814	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. It consists of the reproduction of the corrective and the actual facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4838	Mr President. Mrs Partik-Pablé said in fact that Mrs Stoisits had called on Parliament to have 20 years of imprisonment for each of them. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, that's right!]] I am indeed putting it right, Mr Graf and Mrs Partik-Pablé: Firstly, this correction has been made several times by me, and secondly... – You know that I was not in Parliament? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You were not in Parliament at the time, Mr. Deputies!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There you were demonstrating!]] . I was in Parliament at the time, by the way, that would have to be corrected again, Mrs Pablo. I'll read you from the minutes. The speech by Mr Stoisits referred to the condemnation of Mr Hans-Jörg Schimanek jun. ............................................................................................................................................................ And in this context, Mrs Stoisits has said – I quote from the Stenographical Protocol – that: "The criminal framework in the condemnation of Hans-Jörg Schimanek jun. has not been exhausted for a long time." Interlocutory call from Member Scheibner – then –: "Do you want to give the Schimanek sen. for life?" Stoisits further: "I, as a sincere Democrat, would wish that if it were about your concerns, your sympathy, it would once be the full hardness of the law, and in this case – Hans-Jörg Schimanek – "it would be twenty years." [[Contradict with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Well, well!]] It is clear from the context that the speech by Mr Stoisits on two sides goes to Hans-Jörg Schimanek jun. It's all right. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Take this back!]] And I didn't know Hans-Jörg Schimanek jun. Member of your Freedom Party. That would be even more beautiful!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4979	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5012	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's your attitude! Put political opponents in the dungeon!]] Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. Allow me to start with Mrs. Partik-Pablé. [[Sustained unrest.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: The Greens are allowed to allow everything!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If, under the item on the agenda, report by the Committee on Human Rights on the report by Mrs Partik-Pablé, Mrs Partik-Pablé speaks and tries to give us an overview of the situation of human rights in Austria – from her point of view, her perspective and her understanding – you must remember what Mrs Partik-Pablé said in the National Council – and I also agree to subsume the title of human rights, human rights understanding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] She said in the National Council on the topic of "Black Africans in Austria" – I quote – that: "They don't just look different" – the black Africans mean – "but they're different, too, and they're very aggressive. This is obviously in the nature of these people." – I quote: [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The black African drug dealer!]] "They're usually illegal, they're mostly drug dealers, and they're extremely aggressive." [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The drug dealers! The drug dealer!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Is it not a little curious if someone with this understanding of human rights, with this knowledge of the theories that exist here – demonstrated by the just quoted quotation from a national Council debate – expresses himself on the situation of human rights in Austria, on which she essentially did not comment? But not only did I notice this in Mrs. Partik-Pablé's speech, but also that she has always referred to who in this country is afraid of who in this country makes a mood against whom, in their opinion, an exaggerated language and not an appropriate choice of words. Ladies and gentlemen! If there is anyone in this country who does something like that, then this is the Freedom Party that has made a significant contribution to the change of climate in order not to express it value, not only in recent years but over the past decade! [[Abg. Böhacker: It's the Greens!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] It's been more than a decade! And here Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé made a contribution in the sense of changing the climate and also in the sense of arousing "real constructive" contribution. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who hates who?]] This statement, which it made in the National Council, is only a fixed and "written" report on the nature, the world of thought and the assessments that the Freedom Party has on this subject in the country. Ladies and gentlemen! If this party is constantly calling upon the so-called "wise" report, in which only personalities nominated by the Freedom Party, who are in important functions today, as Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer, are called, and in which the concerns of the three mentioned personalities who have written the "wise" report are expressed, then one really does not know what the real concern of the FPÖ is now. Today, after the last Sunday, after the collapse of the FPÖ in Styria, I already know that FPÖ is now facing truly more important problems than the human rights situation in Austria, namely the situation in its own party. No doubt that's right! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, in connection with human rights, comments on the intrusion affair around the FPÖ, then only one question is raised, namely: What does Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé know about these cases, about this subject, about these years of operations? Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé is not anyone in the FPÖ. She is at least one of the longest members of the FPÖ represented in the National Council, she is one of those personalities in the FPÖ who hold the highest positions in that party, she is one who has been active for years in one of the most sensitive areas, because she was an investigator of first quality! If this lady, namely Dr. Partik-Pablé, has never had a problem with being able to ask Members to the National Council at the same time, for example, and to be an investigative judge, now, so to speak, as one of the disfellowshipping women, I leave you to appreciate the credibility of such statements in detail. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my eyes, ladies and gentlemen, what Mrs Partik-Pablé has done in recent years is quite worthy and worthy of being looked at. It's just an interest that's behind it. Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé is – and she always stresses this – very well aware of the events in this country. It seems to know a lot about how the interrelationships around possible intrusions and intrusions have been – but only, as it claims, in connection with other parties. This has nothing to do with the FPÖ. I suspect that Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé does not know the names of Kreissl, Radakovits, Binder, Rumpold, Mayerhofer. What does she have to do with a countryman in Lower Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] He is only "at random" countryman of that party, for which she too sits in the National Council. Mr. Rumpold was only "at random" the Federal Managing Director of that party, in which she also held important positions. Mr. Radakovits is only "by chance" the highest official of the AUF, and she is only "by chance" – simply "by chance"! – the security spokesperson of the FPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why "at random"? That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no reason, of course, for anyone who is the security spokesperson of the FPÖ to know people like Kreissl, Radakovits, Binder and Rumpold! [[Abg. Böhacker: What do you want with your confused statements?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Kabas!]] - Kabas! If we don't talk about Kabas today, he'll still be there. But she probably doesn't know that either. If, in the context of a debate on a request or motion for a resolution submitted by the Government to the Committee on Human Rights and which on the "Location of Human Rights in Austria" contains only a mandate to the Federal Government, namely a report to the National Council on the situation of minorities, refugees and immigrants in the EU Member States, i.e. in the other EU Member States, then, ladies and gentlemen, make You yourself are reveling in the interest of this Federal Government in actually dealing with the human rights situation in Austria: zero! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Think of Minister Strasser, keyword "Spitzelaffaire FPÖ", think of Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer and his advocacy, consenting and encouraging words when Jörg Haider made the proposal that threatens the rule of law in Austria most of the time, namely opposition, people of different opinion and those who do not rejoice in this government! [[Abg. Böhacker: You know very well that this is wrong!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Böhacker: This statement is wrong!]] I really wonder if this has anything to do with the Preamble which the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has hopefully presented to Mr Bundeskanzler and his government members. [[Abg. Böhacker: It's incredible!]] Nothing to do with it, nothing at all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The conclusion now drawn after the White Report is: We now have the Blankoscheck, and that's the matter done, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. – The issue of human rights issues and investment in human rights education, the attempt to discuss this issue in the public in a sensitive way, has been resolved in the light of the interpretations drawn from the "wise" report by the Federal Government. You're done, that's no reason and no more reason to put activities here. How else can it be interpreted that the concern of Mr Posch to submit an annual report on the human rights situation in Austria from all sectors has not been accepted and that this issue has been addressed in an incredibly washed way with a resolution? What are you afraid of, Mr. Federal Chancellor? What are you afraid of when the opposition calls for a report on the human rights situation in Austria? You can't be afraid of anything! Because, ladies and gentlemen, the "wise" have said: It's all right!; the Federal Government is fully satisfied. But the demand that we continue to deal with this issue periodically and intensively – now in the invitation to the departments – is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in the sense of the mandate given to him by the parliamentary committee on human rights itself, which is to be agreed by all the members there, absolutely incomprehensible! Nor is it in relation to developments that exist in other countries to deal with the issues of human rights, human rights education, civil rights and civil society involvement in these issues. That is why I cannot help but interpret it, Federal Chancellor, as you have commissioned your group in the National Council to act here. Because if there is nothing to hide, then you can reveal everything there is. But if this is rejected, ladies and gentlemen, then the suspicion is that there is something to hide. On the other hand, we will refrain, and we will not tire of continuing to ask these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5271	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5293	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Posch, you have referred to the budget speech of Minister of Finance Grasser as an unimportant budget speech. [[Abg. He's right!]] I think that statement is very risky. Do you know that this means that you call the debt of our state, the security of the future of our children and of the coming generations "interestless"? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Unfortunately, Mr Kostelka is not present – ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, be so good and let him know my words about his assembly last Wednesday when it came to the debate on the agenda. Mr Kostelka said that I had not defended the Group of the Party of European Socialists with a word. Please, he must take note that the liberals themselves are able to defend themselves excellently. I don't need to defend her! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It doesn't hurt if you defend us!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! "The respect for human rights is of fundamental importance for the functioning of a modern society." – That is the first sentence in the proposal 125/A (E) of the Social Democrats. This – and in this I agree fully with the SPÖ – has broad consensus in Austria. What is, however, gladly pushed into the background or, more specifically, deliberately forgotten is that the Austrian government is committed to these principles, which were also held in the Preamble, and its policy is based on them. I do not just say this, but you can read it all the time and time and again in the White report. This one has confirmed that Austria – listen carefully, Mr Posch and Mrs. Stoisits! – not a developing country in terms of human rights, even if you are always happy and often so. Mr Posch! As regards the reference in your speech to § 209 StGB, please note at last that a subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee has already been set up to deal with this problem! [[Abg. Dr. One: This is the Committee on Justice, Mr. Cot!]] On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! The "Wise" report presents an exemplary witness to Austria and its government. I will briefly highlight a few points. The report notes that – and this is a quote – "the Austrian government is in favour of the common European values. In particular, respect for the rights of minorities, refugees and immigrants does not remain behind the other Member States of the European Union. ... In some areas, especially the right of national minorities, Austrian standards can be considered superior compared to those of other EU countries." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It also stresses – and here again a quote – that: "The concrete measures taken by the new Austrian government to combat racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism show that the Austrian Government is aware of the special problems in this field. Here, too, the extent of government... reflects the common European values." My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? What does that mean? – That means for me that the Austrian government has done excellent work so far, especially in the areas mentioned above. A concrete example is, for example, the state target for minorities, with which a long demand for the ethnic groups has finally been implemented. That also means to me that no one can accuse the government of any anti-foreign measures. And that means to me that Austria has a role to play in the area of human rights within the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Stoisits! The Federal Government and especially the Federal Chancellor are not afraid of anyone. It's clear we can't rest on the deserved laurels. We will continue to support the consistent and continuous improvement of the human rights situation in Austria, Europe and the world. We will continue to keep our eyes and ears open and accuse abuses, no matter where they occur, and condemn them on the sharpest. The Member States of the European Union can benefit from one another in the field of human rights through role models and mutual control. So you should not go an average, comfortable path, but you must set the level as high as possible and consistently realize it. If the values are increasingly lost in a society of globalisation, then respect for human rights is the basis for a peaceful future in which people can live equally. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Therefore, for the further development of the European Union and the integration process, the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights is particularly important – it is of great importance – but also the legal situation of minorities, refugees and immigrants in the Member States of the European Union. However, much remains to be done in connection with the Charter of Fundamental Rights – this has resulted from the discussions on the presentation – including the binding effect, the legal protection institutions, the relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights and the protection of minorities. You could go on with that. The resolution put forward in our motion, the request made by FPÖ and ÖVP, means that with the other EU Member States a The "Best Practice" model is designed to improve human rights protection in these areas. Only in this way can we take action against intolerance, racism and xenophobia. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As a basis for this, the current situation needs to be explained. It is only then that, in our opinion, we can work reasonablely and effectively to improve them. We therefore ask the Federal Government to present to the National Council a report on the situation of minorities, refugees and immigrants in all EU Member States and to report to the National Council on the draft European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights. The White Report has confirmed Austria's role as a model within the European Union. I hope that a report on all EU Member States will reveal weaknesses and also strengths, including high standards for human rights. I think that this will create new impetus for the further development of human rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. We must be vigilant and committed throughout the European Union, that is why we need this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5402	The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5423	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I fear bad luck for our Republic if the two representatives of the government party quote the "wise" report as if it were all right with the human rights here in Austria. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] I can bring a few quotes from this "wise" report, which makes a very clear statement. [[Abg. Ellwall: Then you didn't listen to my speech!]] For example: "The FPÖ was responsible for a popular desire for the situation of foreigners in Austria in 1993.... The aim was to mobilise the population against the number of immigrants considered too high. The strong opposition of the population to FPÖ's projects led to only 7.3 percent of the population participating in the popular desire." In its statement, the Austrian Bishops' Conference speaks of a radicalisation of the political climate: "The Austrian Catholic bishops are anxiously seeing a threatening deterioration... There are fears based on prejudices and lack of information." It grows hate and intolerance. "Christian faith is incompatible with the form of anti-Semitism, racial thinking or xenophobia." The White Report also states: "One of the most problematic features of leading FPÖ members is attempts to silence political opponents or even criminalize them if they criticize the Austrian government. The frequent effort of insult processes against people..." – And so on, and so on. Another point is: "It seems to have actually become a typical feature in Austrian politics that representatives of the FPÖ use extremely comprehensible formulations. For a long time, high party officials of the FPÖ have given opinions that can be understood as hostile to a foreigner or even as racist." "Nationalist undertones" are mentioned here. And it goes on to say: "Obviously, FPÖ has not taken any action against members who have given public anti-foreign opinions..." And so on, and so on. I think it is really appropriate that we take this "wise" report seriously here. A conclusion from this would actually be that we receive an annual human rights report in which all ministries present their access to this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would also like to say something to Mr Partik-Pablé. It has done exactly what the Freedom Party has always done and what it has done, especially in the Human Rights Committee: She's exchanged the role of the victim and the role of the perpetrator. In the Human Rights Committee, the liberals have repeatedly tried to say: The only human rights that have ever been violated here in Austria are their own. This is absurd, and we must fight against it! We must fight for the truth in this country, for the real protection of human rights. That is why we are sitting here in Parliament, and the government has signed a Preamble to that effect. I think we are actually called here to question all the processes in Austria very critically, and we will do so too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's remember: Why has the Human Rights Committee ever been set up? – It has been established because there has been an increase in human rights violations in recent years. Just think of the reports by Amnesty International, which repeatedly point out that there are attacks – especially in police custody – especially on black Africans here in Austria! I quote from a letter from a Pan-African organization, which wrote this open letter to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is extremely concerned about the situation or the deterioration of the situation of Africans here in Austria. She writes: It must be mentioned here that within a year, three Africans – no matter what the reason for death is – died in the custody of the state institutions. – It goes on to remind you of the death of Ahmed, Marcus Omofuma and Richard Ibekwe. It does not calm me at all if now FPÖ and ÖVP are going to say: The human rights situation is even worse in many other countries, and more people have been killed in the East of Germany due to racist attacks. - That's no calming for me! We have the task of looking for compliance with human rights in Austria, and we are responsible for ensuring that they are respected too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] One word to the police: How do thousands of police get the police to get into a bad light all the time when such incidents occur? – I know that the majority of the police are aware of their very responsible profession and are also very responsible for it. I think it finally belongs within the police and actually improves the situation. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Have you said that in the last ten years?]] I would also like to address the current refugee situation. I find it very embarrassing – I repeat: extremely embarrassing! – hard and heartless, as the head of state of Carinthia, Haider, deals with the refugees by simply moving them to the Traiskirchen refugee camp within Austria. We all know from "NEWS", how the situation in Traiskirchen is, that the camp is completely overcrowded and that the human rights situation there is not really the best. I am very grateful for Mrs Stoisits' agreement at the last committee meeting that we will be visiting this refugee camp by the Human Rights Committee so that we can take a picture of the situation there ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to address a point which I think is very important in this regard. Today the top coward has been mentioned several times. I don't think it's a coincidence that there were representatives of human rights organisations, in particular, who were stifled by the Freedom Party. It was André Heller who organized the "light sea" in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] It is the caritas who repeatedly point to human rights violations that concern asylum seekers who are actually trying to improve the human situation and in this sense are very helpful to the state. I would like to very much thank all the organisations that take the human rights situation seriously and work for the people of this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is also no coincidence that Mrs Knoll, bishop of the Protestant Church, was incarcerated, who has always found an open word when it comes to human rights violations in Austria. She too was massively threatened by the Freedom Party, and she and her family, too, were obviously stifled. Now I ask you from the government, from the government parties: Why Shame Why don't you want an investigation committee on this affair? A committee of inquiry would be urgently needed and would give some light to this matter. I would like to quote in connection with the Caritas. It says: When the Vienna FPÖ-Obmann Hilmar Kabas was sued by the Caritas in 1998 for ill-punishment because he had declared that the homes of the aid organization were germs of illegal drug trafficking, FPÖ-near police came to him. They combed through archives and computers after obsessive information about the Caritas. – End of the quote. I think these are exactly the evidences that are necessary in order to actually explain the situation. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where's a proof?]] My late speaker, Mr Mainoni, last time also attacked the Caritas quite massively. I don't think that's a coincidence. They are trying to intimidate people and organizations who are a critical public here in Austria, who are intimidating asylum seekers, foreigners living in Austria, but also homeless people, for the poorest in this country. They have always tried by all means to kill these people. I think it is in the interest of the future of Austrian democracy that there is a really complete investigation in this area. In any case, however, I would like to point out once again that we need a report from all the ministries on the human rights situation every year. It has been mentioned several times: There are also problems with regard to women's discrimination and other areas in Austria. I would ask you to support this request so that it will actually be reported. This report should of course also draw conclusions, so that the situation of these people in Austria is actually improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5531	The next item is the speech by Mr Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5553	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The report by the Committee on Human Rights, which is on the agenda, gives me the opportunity to report to you on the activities of this Committee. Through the chairmanship of Mrs Stoisits, this committee has become an insatiable collection of contributions and statements on a wide range of topics. The genocide of the Armenians, the human rights violations in Azerbaijan are thrown into the same pot as the call for the final lifting of § 209 of the Austrian Criminal Code, and the equal rights of women is mentioned in a breath with the "wise" report. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The whole thing is enriched – only for your information – by constant word reports and spontaneous opinions by the chairmen themselves, who are either long-sleeping or emotional. – Mrs Stoisits, the summit of your chaotic Presidency, was probably your following statement. After the government parties had submitted a request at the last meeting of the Human Rights Committee, you, as chairman, assessed it with the following words: I've never seen such a cocky nonsense! This was said by the chairman of a committee on a request submitted by the government parties. [[Mr Silhavy and Mr Mag. Lunacek.]] Dear Mrs Stoisits! As I have learned, you, who have greatly torn yourself around this presidency, will make this human rights committee an emotionally charged, but on and on, meaningless and inefficient debate club. That has to be held! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now on the report of the "three wise men", which was also the subject of the Committee's meeting. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Evidence of the social democrats' campaign has been demonstrated. I'll bring the evidence. In the preparation of the White Report, according to the report of the "three wise men" of course, social-democratic Members of Parliament were consulted at the beginning – Mr President Fischer was on 29 May. At 10 a.m. on July 2, 2000, Mr. Fritz Verzetznitsch was there, and also Mr. Alfred Gusenbauer and Mrs. Cornelia Zoppoth were there – so that the "three wise men" could take a picture of the statements of the Social Democrats. But that's not enough. On the occasion of the so-called pilgrimage – one remembers, the so-called NGOs, the Non-Governmental Organizations, once again indulging in their report on the situation in Austria – among these NGOs, a social-democratic one also smuggled smoothly, namely: A certain Mr. Eugene Sensenig took place on 29 July. August in Heidelberg at 8 o'clock in the morning under the cover of the NGO GenderLink. This man is actually a SPÖ activist and SPÖ employee. The evidence lies in it – because always talking about top-level cowards and so on, I tell you the proof; my information comes from there –: You only need to click on the website of the SPÖ Salzburg, there it says: "Red Left": a digital picture book on the moving social and democratic history of Salzburg. Designer: Eugene Sensnig. – This "fine" gentleman is also an employee in the Karl-Steinocher Foundation; this is a research association of the SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! This is proof that the Social Democrats not only sought the official way, but also under the cover of the NGOs once again tried to approach us in Austria! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to Dr. Peter Pilz – Mr Kostelka is not in the hall. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] If you subsume the so-called police chiefs under the term "human rights violations", I ask you: What is human hunting, man hunting, that you're holding for better knowledge here? – I also present evidence for this. [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] It's a real violation of human rights when you're carrying out human hunting. Let me give you an example from Salzburg: For many years in Salzburg, a police officer, a good police officer at the time, worked successfully and with a red party book – quite simply: with a red party book –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] 155 vows, 17 money rewards, 1 727 seizures and pursuits. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's success is real. In 1990 this police officer even received the Golden Medal for Meriting the Republic of Austria. – S & D party member. This man – just because he turned away from your party and became a member of the FPÖ – came to the crossfire of your criticism. What was the accusation? – Through one-sided investigations of the investigating officials, he was quickly identified as suspect in a pitfall scandal. The allegation was that he had acquired data and passed it on to him unauthorised. Ladies and gentlemen! The police officer was arrested. On the occasion of a house search carried out by him, his 77-year-old father, who himself was a policeman and retired, suffered a heart attack. [[Abg. Oellinger: Say what was found at the house search!]] And then the trial came. [[Abg. Oillinger: Tell me what was found in the house search!]] - Nothing's been found there! At the hearing – I would like to quote the judgment, ladies and gentlemen – he was acquitted by all accusations! He was acquitted by all accusations, for example, without any official reason from the ECIS's foreign information system, and was unlawfully passed on to them, which would have led him to commit the infringement of the official secrecy. He was also acquitted in the second instance! Ladies and gentlemen! The judge then made the following statement at the time of the decision-making – which should also give you thought –: First of all, it should be noted that the Court of First Instance has the impression that the current surveys and advertisements against the officials are highly unilateral and tendentious against them and that it was not at first at all attempted to investigate other alternatives or other perpetrators or fellow perpetrators. Yeah, he's got the evidence. One needed a perpetrator, and because a former red man had turned away, one immediately made a scandal out of it and thus pursued a real manhunt, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What was found in the house search?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] For the Greens, something to understand: This judge is truly unwarranted in this case, for this judge was a founding member of the Greens in Salzburg and Greens Congregation in Salzburg. This judge was together with Herbert Fux, who is still your honorary chairman here in Parliament today – or am I mistaken? –, founding member. In fact, a very impertinent judge. [[Abg. Oellinger: Say what was found at the house search!]] This is proof, ladies and gentlemen, that people are being hunted here. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the statement to which Mr Jarolim went yesterday, when he said that this peak scandal was about the greatest scandal of the Second Republic. – But: The " largest scandal of the Second Republic" is, in fact, a collection of accusations, allegations, allegations and scandals, although there is nothing at all. But your party, ladies and gentlemen, should be a little careful, because the basis of the investigations of the Special Commission, which is currently active and which we fully trust, is the book of Mr. Kleindienst entitled "I confess". And this man also dedicated an article to a very spicy affair, he's called: "Absorbent scandal in Parliament" – I repeat: "Tolerance scandal in Parliament"! However, it has not taken up Mr. Kleindienst on this issue alone, but it has also taken up another person – a personality – in a book three weeks before, namely no one less than the Director-General for Public Security a. D. Sika. In his book, he has his own section entitled "Laugh Attack in Parliament". Do you know who's doing this? – Your former Federal Managing Director, Mr Marizzi, who is said to have carried out totally "distorted" peak actions in this House, as the books say. They have been able to speak of peak actions, although these are completely diffuse claims, even though you have had in your own ranks a Member who has been your managing director, who has carried out his peaking activity in one of the most important buildings, here in Parliament! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Large cases always take a little longer – we know this from the "Lucona" scandal. There was also a journalist and book author who put the whole thing in motion. The case "Noricum" was also taken up by journalists and became a scandal. And also this Marizzi-Spitzel-Affaire will have consequences – I hope that light will come into the dark here. The Director-General for Public Security has never said and done anything thoughtlessly. He made this statement very consciously in his book: He wished that this case would be taken up and that in the context of the scepticism and hearing of the S & D light would come into the dark. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is actually just one of the many scandals you're involved in while you're putting things under us that you can't prove by anything! [[Abg. Achatz: Who was then Minister of the Interior? - Red! Red! Red!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Mrs Stoisits, give the presidency to the Human Rights Committee! They would be very good at doing this to the Committee. Secondly, Human hunting is also a human rights violation – this to the address of Mr Pilz, Kostelka and Consorten. And thirdly, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, your precepts, your scandals and your false claims will only have one result: that you yourself come to the crossfire of the investigations. But that's a good thing, because there's plenty of cases for that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5740	The next item is Mrs Lunacek's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5761	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In order to address the comments of my previous speaker, Mainoni: Mr Mainoni, you asked the Chairman of the Terezija Stoisits Human Rights Committee to give up their presidency and accused her of running a chaotic presidency. [[Abg. Young: Is this a Majesty policy already?]] Mr Mainoni! You, your group, and also the ÖVP, are bringing chaos to this committee by hardly discussing a subject because you want to constantly postpone the issues because you do not want to decide certain things – nor do those who really hurt anyone, such as a decision on the fact that the Austrian Parliament too acknowledges that almost 90 years ago there was a genocide on the Armenians. You are not even willing to do this because you fear that the Foreign Minister who does not want to have it will put something in place for the negotiations with Turkey within the EU. You're not even ready for such things! How can we have a presidency if your parties are prepared to do nothing if you are only here to block it? We and the President-in-Office then urge you to act chaoticly. That's cockbucks and nonsense at the same time! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It seems that it is not in your interest that the Committee or here in the High House is actually being discussed about human rights in Austria, otherwise you would not have rejected Mr Posch's request and tabled a resolution asking the Federal Government to submit to the National Council a report on the situation of minorities, refugees and immigrants in the EU Member States. – First of all, the candidate countries were still there. – Is this the task of the Austrian Parliament? Is this the task of the Austrian Federal Government? This House must also deal with the situation of human rights in Austria and above all with it. And if you, Mr Mainoni, think that the genocide of the Armenians does not belong to it, then § 209 StGB does not belong to it, even the equal rights of women and various other things, then your human rights understanding is a very limited one. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Then we really need massive discussion about what your group understands, what the EIA and what we – the opposition parties – mean by human rights in this country. They seem to think only of the autochthonic minorities – important, necessary – but human rights are very much further on. Perhaps you will read in the Human Rights Convention. Mr Mainoni, you have also said that this committee is an inefficient debate club. . Well, that goes back to you, because the ineffectiveness of not wanting to make any requests and not wanting to debate what human rights in Austria mean is what your political groups are calling for. The President-in-Office of the Council is trying to reach decisions, so to speak, but unfortunately this is not possible because it always says: Adjournment, apologies, apologies, apologies – we can play that forever. – A human rights committee really cannot work like this! Mr Ellmauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European He said that the "wise" report had found that Austria had a model function in terms of human rights, a role model for the rest of the EU. And Mrs Partik-Pablé said that we had not read the White report. To this end: Unfortunately, the impression is that the two government groups are always using only the first part of the "wise" report, that part of which says that the government has not really been blamed in the field of human rights. That she didn't do much is not right inside, that would be our opinion. But at least it's inside. It wasn't as bad as feared. About the second part – and from this I conclude a very differentiated reading of the "wise" report by the government groups – about the second part in which the Freedom Party is strongly criticized and things that we have been saying for years seem to be reading away. It doesn't even happen to you. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: For example?! - Cite it!]] For example, since you're talking to me about this: Mr Haigermoser first said in an interlocutory call that the "simple party member", the head of the state of Carinthia, had said, in the presence of the Minister of Justice, that opposition politicians should be prosecuted. Haigermoser called in and said it was wrong. Read the White Report, point 94! [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Quote!]] It's written there. Maybe you should do this again. It is said that in the presence of the Federal Minister of Justice, a press conference of the head of state of Carinthia mentioned the possibility of applying a provision of the criminal code to Members who criticize the government. – Are you saying the "wise" report is also wrong? Do you keep this up? This, for example, is inside, but you just don't want that to happen. They also do not want to realize that the "wise" report also refers to the language that the Freedom Party has used and is still using. Mrs Partik-Pablé said earlier that the people in our country were afraid of the loss of jobs and the fear of finding a place to live. – That’s true, but people in this country have and are also afraid when they hear the language of the Freedom Party, as it was used in the last election campaign in Vienna, for example. That is why this has something to do with Mr Kabas. It has to do with him very well, because the "wise" report also says: The assessment of the FPÖ as a "right-wing populist party with extremist expression" continues to be true. – That’s not something from the past, because it means here: it’s true. So this language scares people. For this reason, it would also be necessary to present a report every year on the human rights situation in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] – The "wise" report is not a reinwashing. A report on the situation of human rights is also available in other countries, and it would be good for the two government groups if they were to make an annual report in Austria. I have already said in the Committee that you could see this as an opportunity, because you could have all the things you are writing on the flags in this report. Wouldn't that be great with the EU? – But you are not even ready to do that. You wouldn't even do such a thing for your own marketing. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We have to save!]] That has nothing to do with saving. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Save paper!]] Saving human rights is probably the wrong approach! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It always means what the government has not already done. For example, this was also mentioned by Mr Ellmauer: the objective of the state. – I think as a green person: We have already tabled this proposal in 1996. At that time, there was no consent from the then and present government group ÖVP. It is interesting that once the EU-14 has put in place its measures, we will have the government target. Not that I had something against it, but now at once you are the "great ones" who have negotiated the state target! - Well, that's wonderful! To go into detail: I also find it interesting to note that in the State objective there is a commitment to the historical linguistic and cultural diversity in Austria, which we also wanted to have in it, but at the request of the government groups of the addition: "... linguistic and cultural diversity expressed in the indigenous groups". They seem to mean that this linguistic and cultural diversity should only be expressed in the indigenous groups. What's the matter with the sides? What about the people who have struggled over the last 10, 20, 30 years? Is that not also the case with linguistic and cultural diversity in this country? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They do not seem to belong to it! This is a view of human rights and of linguistic and cultural diversity that we cannot share. This must relate to all minorities in that country. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It was particularly interesting then that Mr Ellmauer's additional remark was that this State objective is probably also a contribution against xenophobia. – Mr Ellmauer! Since when are the Austrian Slovenians and the Austrian Croatians "Fremde" in our country? Is that your opinion? Are these really "foreigners"? – If you think so, then we only need a human rights report every year! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] Another point on which the questionable attitude of the government groups on human rights in this country has been expressed: At the last meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this was about the Presidency agreement – something completely formal, something that Austria has already concluded with many international organisations and where there have never been any problems in deciding that, because we want international organisations in our country, are we? There was a request to confirm the office agreement with the European Monitoring Centre against Racism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] And do you know, those who were not in committee, what happened? . There was a request from the government groups to postpone the vote on this. It was said by the ÖVP that we first had to enter into a dialogue with Mrs Winkler, because there were incidents there. It was then a little clearer to hear from the liberals: one had to question how the head of this body acted and whether she might not have gone a little too far with the criticism of the pressure exerted by the Minister of Justice. That is why it is necessary to speak to her before deciding on the seat agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! If we continue this process, perhaps we should also ask whether we want OPEC in the country, if oil prices are now so high; the OPEC, which, like all international organizations, is still exempt from the tax on motor vehicles and the like. Maybe you should make a request. It would also be very relevant for your electorate that we no longer want the OPEC to solve the office agreement with OPEC. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Weinmeier]] Or maybe the UN is too expensive. We really don't need this internationality. We prefer to stay at home, where everyone likes us – or not. They don't like us any more abroad, so maybe we'll get rid of the UN's headquarters in this country, because what they say doesn't always fit us. Is this a way of dealing with an international organization that we want to have settled in Austria and that has been in Austria for years? – This procedure, ladies and gentlemen, is in favour of an attitude which I and my group can in no way endorse. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This means that you are calling into question the independence of such organizations and that They also put something like a junkim: You want this position to be directed in your sense, in the sense of the government fractions. And if she says something else, then, you think, we're not going to carry out the seat agreement. – This procedure is against human rights, ladies and gentlemen, and we cannot accept it! Another point which has been raised twice, first by Mr Mainoni, and also by Mr Ellmauer, has asked: What has the § 209 StGB lost in the Human Rights Committee? Mr Ellmauer also noted: There is already a subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee. Mr Commissioner, I should like to inform you of the following: It is not the Constitutional Committee, it is the judicial committee in which criminal law is negotiated, and there is a subcommittee there. But yet I have to ask – and this question I and many others have already asked here about it: Why do we need another subcommittee to clarify that gender relations, not fornication, as is still in the criminal law book, between men over the age of 19 and young men between the ages of 14 and 18 have already lost nothing in the criminal law book? – The European Court of Human Rights has already condemned Austria, the European Parliament has already said five times that Austria may withdraw these paragraphs. There was a survey in the Austrian Parliament, which also confirmed this by a majority and said ten out of twelve scientists: That's done away with! But the ÖVP – it is the ÖVP in particular – needs another subcommittee to be able to discuss again, and still young men, as happened twice this summer, are sentenced and punished for this section. – This is human rights abuse, and for this reason too we would like to receive a human rights report every year. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] Finally, on the particularly topical issue of the top coward. Mrs Partik-Pablé said that we, the opposition, want to move into the FPÖ at once – this is already a strange representation! – and it is alleged that in recent years red Interior Ministers have done nothing to ensure that no data can be passed on. From our side there has always been criticism of the red Ministry of the Interior at that time. But to say that the ministers of the interior were guilty of the illegal questioning of data to the liberals or persons of the Ministry of the Interior and to the liberals, it is the SPÖ or the former red Ministry of the Interior, which is already very peculiar. No matter who directs this Ministry of the Interior, such attacks are not justified by the fact that there may be gaps somewhere. That is not a justification for it, nor can it be. And that you have so far not agreed to this, you prove once again that you and especially the liberals, who have always insisted that such things must be examined, that you must finally make order, as their diction always is, now at once, because they themselves are affected, are massively affected, so that they do not want to do anything more at all. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Perhaps – but the Federal Chancellor, who is responsible for the Human Rights Committee, is no longer there – there is – but I know that my hopes are probably unfounded – yet once a year the opportunity to get such a human rights report presented in order to actually see what this government is doing not only this year, in which it seems to see itself washed up by the "wise" report, but what it will do in the coming years, year after year. That must become public, and we will take care of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5961	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5982	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to make a correct position at the outset. The impression has been given here that the Human Rights Committee would, on the one hand, debate too much – what a Parliament actually wants – but, on the other hand, do not adopt enough requests. Somehow you have to decide. If we talk, discuss and exchange opinions here, we must also take note of this as a work. And this is not expressed in the fact that we have adopted a number of applications in such a way or so and/or have them put into an annual report. I also believe that the Human Rights Committee is one of the most active committees – I am referring to this with a school vocabulary – that is what the meetings and meetings are about to happen, and can also be seen from the outcome. There were applications immediately after the Committee was set up in late 1999 and there were other committees not yet in this active form. I also believe that we have a basis for the debate, whether we call the High House debate club or Parliament, that is, a house of linguistic, speaking debate, without having to request a new Austrian annual report. For example, there is the annual report by amnesty international, which clearly comments on about 11 of 15 EU Member States. It will also be evident that there are still maladies throughout the world that we cannot ignore as a European country. Just a few significant figures: There were executions in 31 states in 1999. In 63 countries, people waited for their state-ordered murder after death sentences. In 61 states, people from conscience are imprisoned. Austria is also included in this report. There is a need for action on the question of thrust, about the year 1999. Here, too, I must say: The need for action, which is now being identified, has already existed before 1999, so one could have intervened here earlier. The Austrian People's Party supports the suggestions and concerns contained in the report, namely clear instructions for action, rules of conduct and guidelines for officials – they should not be left in the rain in a large scope of interpretation in the case of the case – and careful and rapid investigation. Mr Posch, this is a report on which we can comment. Another report is the annual report of the Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia. We can also comment here. A press release can be found that Austria is here, as it is so beautiful, "nearly impeccable". We can also debate this. I am also pleased that the Vienna police have set up a mechanism of observation, led and initiated by Mr. Stäil, who precisely determines whether there are structural problems in the event of seizures or whether they are individual or personal failures in order to work against the global accusation of the police and the Gendarmerie, but not to tolerate individual failures in any way. Another essential point – and I would remind you of the beginning of the work of the Human Rights Committee – is the question of the effect media achieve when they report on errors, unjust behaviour of people towards other people and when they report on their aggressment and consequences. From media theory and media pedagogy, we know that not every transmission of dramatic assaults also leads to a rethinking, to a process of improvement, but also to what is shown in injustice, is pictured and determined in the head. The improvement effect is similar to the tendency to "harmosity" and to a certain "standardization" in a certain way. I am very glad that this media effect of Secretary-General Morak has recently been addressed at the European Racism Conference in Strasbourg. He said that the influence of the media on the formation of society, on the attitudes of people towards other ethnic, national, religious and social groups is enormous, and he calls for a relevant analysis. The influence that the media exerted in the past is said, unfortunately, to be negative, the destructive effects are particularly apparent. It is therefore also necessary to check to what extent alleged racism control does not actually support racism and anti-humanity. I am very glad that Mr Morak, in his important role, also pointed to the dimension of human education, which is the education of human rights. I think it is important to point out, even if it is a matter of course. He has addressed human rights education in particular and has thus spoken for the government and for the majority of the Austrians. The promotion of minorities – i.e. a certain social diversity – is a valuable asset for society and not the danger of being put back and forth. For example, I think it is a good media project that the "Vienna Newspaper" works with the African Society and makes a weekly supplement "Tribüne Africa". This will provide the Austrians with knowledge of a continent and its inhabitants. This will counteract an atrocity propaganda. I remember at this point – and I believe that this will give us a response to our work in the Human Rights Committee – to the work that is being renewed and updated daily. I mean Ruth Vodak, who shows in her political discourse analysis what we need to pay attention to: not actual – but of course – attacks, but that we have to see where the roots are, where the germs begin to form spouts. It is important to draw attention to the way we talk about "we and the others" as we form political identity and difference. I mean, Ruth Vodak is right when she says that we should have left the time behind, where people have distinguished between hellen and barbarians, where Christians have spoken of "we and the Gentiles", but also where people have spoken of "people" and "subhumans" of different kinds. We should also deal with these research results, because they represent, in this differential theoretically, an atavistic, i.e. a pre-modern, not actually a highly developed state and a developed human race, and thus create discrimination. I am confident that today I have listened to the Minister for Finance, who said that everyone should be a winner of globalisation. If I reach the point that the difference between home search and globalisation is getting smaller and the phenomena that distinguish between "we and the others" are balanced, so that everyone really benefits from globalisation, including on the basis of this budget programme, then I am confident, also for the Human Rights Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6057	The next speaker was Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6079	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to the comments made by one of my previous speakers, Mr Mainoni, because the presentation of how the "wise" report came about is symptomatic of how you interpret it in terms of content by the liberals. Mrs. Susanne Riess-Passer, a vice-chanc, seems to have been completely suppressed. So I'm asking you to take the order for the rest of the time. Either she joined the NGO representative or she was invited to the government and was heard for the government. In the same way, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you are dealing with the interpretation of the "wise" report. You always stop reading where you are addressed very specifically. I ask you: Let us read the "wise" report as it stands and try not only to interpret it as we would have liked it to be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not only if I follow the debate in committee, but also here in plenary, do I sometimes feel that we are not talking about the same thing. I am not talking about the agenda item on human rights reports, but about content. In terms of content, we should be very different, so let me begin by quoting what the Brockhaus means by the term "human rights": Human rights, ladies and gentlemen, are the rights that everyone – I emphasize: everyone – people, regardless of their position in state, society, family, profession, religion and culture, already have to admit that he is born as a human being. If we keep this in mind in our work, in our debate in the Committee and here in plenary, then the discussion would actually have to be quite different in terms of content. I was really very proud of the Austrian Parliament, of our Parliament, when it finally succeeded in setting up a Human Rights Committee a year ago, and without considering for a long time, I also immediately notified myself for this committee. I was also proud – one of the first good actions in the Human Rights Committee – of the fact that a colleague who has been working for human rights for many years has been involved in whether it is a matter of individuals or groups, namely, Mrs Stoisits, who is the chairman of this committee. – But this has already had a wide range of areas, and for this claim I will also take the evidence. Mrs. Brinek! You are right: The first request was made in December last year, i.e. 1999, by Mr. Martin Graf and Mr. Comrade on EU accession conditions for the Czech Republic and Slovenia. You often don't see the beam in your own eye and look for it at your neighbors. The proposal we have tabled to the human rights report is similar. What is useful if we make timely applications if they are debated, but never adopted, but are postponed? I was not very upset for the last time – I admit it – and I have gone on to say that, if we continue to work in this way, the Human Rights Committee should be renamed a relinquishing committee. I have five requests here, which we have already postponed. But these are not just applications submitted by the Greens or SPÖs. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and FPÖ, these are your own requests that you have made and which – probably have gotten you afraid of your own courage – have been discussed, but not treated, but postponed. Debates of the European Parliament And a little polemic is allowed here: I think we should call on all other committees to do so if they have applications with which they do not really know what they should do to send them to the Human Rights Committee. We have already demonstrated a high level of skill in the delay and in the non-ending of applications. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another proof – and he has already been mentioned today – of how much the Human Rights Committee, for example, is appreciated and honoured by the Federal Government, is to be seen in the fact that the Secretary of State Morak, who was appreciated by us in his own right and who also made great efforts to represent the Chancellor in each of our meetings. Federal Chancellor Schüssel has not yet found it worth the effort, although in his office, in the Federal Chancellor's Office, the agents of human rights are present to us to speak and answer. Maybe you can talk to him once. Our appeals didn't produce anything until now. I really agree with all the Members of the VP on the Human Rights Committee that they are honest about their efforts. I've only got the impression that you're very much hostageed. I do not know what forces in the VP prevent you from acting accordingly on the Human Rights Committee of your Christian-Social Attitude. I know it hurt something when I said that this attitude seems to serve only more to be shown on Sunday, but in the VP there is not much on the hat in the weekdays. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ellwall.]] I did not expect much of the liberals in this context – Mr Ellmauer, you are back again – anyway. Its human image is well known and cannot be improved even by a wretched debate in the Human Rights Committee. [[Abg. Achatz: What is the free image of human beings?]] Especially your colleague Dr. Ofner is an excellent debater when it comes to bloating something like this or to blazing it so much that content is no longer at all recognizable what it was originally about. Everything is explained and broken – but unfortunately very little comes out. Ladies and gentlemen! I can really ask you: Look – he has been quoted several times today – at the motion for a resolution by Mr Posch and Mr Comrades. We have asked the Federal Government to submit an annual report to the National Council. And what happened to it? – You have extended it to the whole EU, so now you want to have a human rights-side picture of the entire EU. There is nothing against it at all, but, please, before we deal with the EU, it would really be appropriate – and there have been some examples of it here today – to highlight our own problems, the problems in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am not saying that we are infallible, ladies and gentlemen – I never say that! We too – we too! – have made mistakes and will continue to make mistakes, but we want to have a report on this, we want to be able to deal with it here in the National Council, and we ask for that! We should be right if, in the future, there is a moral picture of the EU. This request should be supported, but we are really honest and correct about our own request. If this is successful and if it should be decided in this way, I believe that the Human Rights Committee has not yet lost everything, but then we can really hope that what we have done will also move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6152	As the next speaker, Mr Dr Graf, I should like to say that he is speaking with an actual correction. – Please note § 58 para. 2 Mr Gog, Member of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6177	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Oberhaidinger here claimed from the speaker's desk that I, Martin Graf, together with comrades, made a request regarding the Beneš decree. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: I didn't say that!]] I'm actually correcting: I have tabled this request, but you have mis-quoted it. I didn't bring him in with "genos" because "genos" isn't part of my human image. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Schmisse is part of your human image!]] I brought him in with Mr Ofner and other Members, and I say to you from this speaker's mouth: This expression that you always use is bothering me anyway. In reality, the "genosus" have been displaced by the population in Europe since 1989. In Austria they are still sitting but not in the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6231	As the next speaker, Mr Krüger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6253	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear comrades from the Socialist Group! I would like to start by referring to the debates of the Green Group. If one appreciates and evaluates the image that the Greens draw about the human rights situation in Austria, one would rather believe that this picture is fit and tailored to South American military dictatorships. In fact – whether you want to hear this, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, or not – it looks very different in Austria. And that it looks so different from in South American military dictatorships, the new government in particular owes itself to it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you have made too early for your laugh, because Mr Oberhaidinger always says that you should not interpret the report of the "three wise men", but you should quote it correctly. And I'm going to quote you right now, as the White report sees the human rights situation in Austria, and then, please, laugh like that – that's why I'd ask you. On page 19, the "three wise men" say about the conclusions on the fight against racism, anti-Semitism, discrimination and xenophobia: "From the documents quoted in this section of the report, it can be concluded that the current Austrian government is taking part in the fight against racism, anti-Semitism, discrimination and xenophobia in Austria." – Quotes Ladies and gentlemen of the comrades! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Perhaps now you too are laughing, when I say that the Austrian Federal Government is committed to maintaining and continuing the current human rights situation in Austria. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has not been hidden from you that it was not the past federal government, but this federal government, which for the first time has expressly enshrined in the Austrian federal constitution in the constitutional history of the Austrian Republic – which, as we all know, dates back to 1920 – as we all know. Why don't you take this into account? Why do you have such a one-sided picture of the human rights situation in Austria, especially you of the Greens? Mrs Stoisits! There are marching on the road Horden with speech choirs: "Resistance, resistance! Shut up, haider on the wall!" And you still support these demonstrations politically. [[Call the SPÖ: "Hears"? "Horden"?]] Of course, you do not agree with this request, but you support these organizations, these demonstrations, because you never hear a word of criticism about such an insult, which not only leads to an orderly and democratic resistance, as it is possible in a normal democracy, but even calls for violence, you never hear what you stand for it. They just close their eyes and ears. The logic of the Green Group on human rights is indeed not understandable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Lunacek says here that immigration into the European Union, whose assessment the government groups call for, is not at all part of the Human Rights Committee. – In the same breath, however, she criticizes the Freedom Party, if it says, the genocide of the Armenian population, which happened 90 years ago, should not be discussed here as a priority. So please, I'm really asking about proportionality: One was in Armenia 90 years ago – a terrible genocide, no question at all – but we are in 2000, and in 2000 the Austrian Federal Government has become a member of the Austrian Parliament and, of course, the European Union has to deal with the whole immigration policy. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] A word that goes beyond our borders, namely to words of German and French members of the government. Here, too, I have the impression that a selective perception – just as with the Greens – is taking place, and I am already wondering, ladies and gentlemen, with what right are representatives of governments responsible for their country – in these countries synagogues burn; in France, for example, not one, not two, but several synagogues, and in Germany asylum homes are set on fire, with the finger on us and criticise that human rights are supposedly not respected. – Thank God we are in Austria, and thank God we do not have these illegal conditions, as they exist in France and Germany and as I have just described them. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Debates of the Socialists. Mrs. Jäger has responded to the alleged data clause and has quoted here from the magazine "NEWS". And then she – I didn't believe to trust my ears – spoke of evidence. Please, where do we come from, if today "NEWS" is quoted as a means of proof, a magazine – and you will probably find it in today's issue – which each has to use at least five or six pages to publish encounters, localizations and judgments that have been taken against this magazine? So, please, to speak of evidence, that's a bit cool. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To Mr Posch. Mr Posch is the human rights spokesperson of the Socialist Group, and he is also an applicant for the report of the Committee on Human Rights. Mr Posch! You are one who attaches human rights to his flags, who, knocking on the breast, is committed to respect for human rights, but at the same time you have a divisive relationship with human rights. We agree, Mr Posch, that the contempt of another person, for example because he belongs to another group, is also a violation of human rights. A person who, like you in the last plenary session, creates a recognizable direct link between the greatest criminal in the last century, Hitler, and our clubman, who thus makes someone despicable, who is so horribly neglecting an injustice regime, where millions and millions of millions have been gas chambers gas, where millions and millions of millions have stayed on the battlefields, who draws such a parallel, has nothing to do with human rights, Mr Posch! [[Abg. Oils: Unharmed!]] Letter You're behind your ears once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the socialist youth and its attitude to human rights. I hardly believed in my eyes when, on the homepage of the Socialist Youth under the theme of "drugs", I took a closer look at the access of socialist youth to drug problems today. – These are all reports. You can check the Internet, I can provide you with it. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the demand programme of your organisation, the socialist youth: The decriminalization of all drugs is required, not of soft drugs, as some progressive circles demand, but of legalization – because decriminalization is legalization – of all drugs, i.e. the free and non-ponicated use of cocaine, heroin and the like. The Socialist Youth also calls for the establishment of fixed houses. You have to imagine this: The setting up of fixers tubes and the free use of injection devices are required! [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: I don't know!]] Ladies and gentlemen! So the socialist youth has demanded the fundamental right to free access and access to drugs. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That says everything!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, please comment on this. [[Abg. Silhavy: Do you want to protect the dealers?]] Something else, to the ORF. Today the ORF and a broadcast of the Editor's Assembly were also addressed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have a letter from the general intern of the ORF in which he makes a critical consideration of the contents of this editorial meeting. He says that the opinion expressed there is incorrect at least in far-reaching areas. But if we are already talking about editorial meetings, we are also talking about that editorial assembly just before the beginning of the 1999 National Council election campaign, we are also talking about that editorial assembly that has massively opposed a reduction in a contribution in the "time in the image"! At that time, the editors of the "Time in the Image" prepared a contribution for the "Time in Picture 1" for the so-called "Euroteam" affair. And in the course of this "Euroteam" affair, as was discussed here in the long and broad, the name Jan Klima, the son of the former Chancellor, was repeatedly called, which obviously had to stand as a galion figure for a carrier club. And these editors have illuminated the role of Jan Klima in this "time in the picture" contribution. And what was then in the "Time in Picture 1"? – This post has been deleted! Ladies and gentlemen! If you already have such a critical relationship to make possible interventions, please also come at your own door, then explain that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] At the time, the general intern did not criticize this editorial meeting. And another one: It was repeatedly claimed that there was a top coward in the ORF. The general intern says there's really no such thing. But again on this issue with the contribution about Jan Klima: How could this contribution about Jan Klima even fall out? He could only fall out because the SPÖ knew in the run-up to the "Time in Picture 1", that is, before the radiation, what the contents of the "Time in Picture 1" will be. That's where I ask you: Yes, who had these contacts? Did the former managing director Rudas, or did he have the former secretary Kalina? Someone must have had her. And this one had knowledge of the planned content of the "Time in Picture 1", and these seconds have been cut out of the "Time in the Image". This is how it looks with the intervention of social democracy in relation to the independent ORF! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll end up and get together. [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] The words used here by the Greens and also by the Social Democrats in relation to the human rights situation in Austria, such as "human rights hostile", "memorial", "questionable", are justified by nothing, but also by nothing at all, and in particular they are in the blasphemous contradiction to the "wise" report.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6453	Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6474	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In spite of the budgetary negotiations, you are honoured to take the time to look at the situation of human rights discussed here, but at this item on the agenda, we already think it necessary that the presence of the Federal Chancellor be given. I therefore propose that the Federal Chancellor be present at this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6505	Mrs Mertel spoke on another speech on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6526	Mr President. My group also feels that this issue is so sensitive and important that we join this Green request.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6556	On the basis of the number of Members present in the plenary, I am not aware of the decision-making capacity. [[Violent contradiction with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A further word on business management: Member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6614	Mr President. For business treatment: I do not understand the unrest and nervousness in the banks of the Socialist Group. Mr President, I would ask you to read about the provision of the Rules of Procedure which, with the representation of the Federal Chancellor, is also entrusted to the present Secretary of State Dr. Finz. This is in line with business rules.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6652	I have a further word on business treatment: Mr Dr. Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6674	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Everyone knows what the Green Group's proposal, obviously acclaimed by the Socialist Group, is all about. But if the matter is to be so important and if the federal chancellor is wanted, it should also be widely discussed whether this willingness or necessity exists or does not exist. Mr President. I therefore propose that a debate be held on Mr Oellinger's request.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6710	Mr Krüger asked for a debate to be held. I therefore ask those Members who support this request for a sign of approval. [[Some SPÖ Members rise up from their seats, several SPÖ representatives point out to the Bureau that they did not hear what was being voted on.]] I'm looking for a sign of approval. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP towards the SPÖ Group.]] I would ask those Members who are in favour of Mr Krüger's request for a sign of approval. [[Call the SPÖ: Vote! Vote!]] – Mr Dr. Krüger is rejected. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Vote! Vote!]] I come to the vote on the request for the presence of Mr Schüssel, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I ask those Members who vote in favour of this motion for a sign of approval. [[The Bureau shall take a vote.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: How this house is led is a scandal! That's really a scandal!]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] – This is the minority, the request is rejected. Mr Oberhaidinger spoke in response to an actual correction. Mr Oberhaidinger, you know the provisions of § 58 para. 3 GOG. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6799	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Martin Graf has claimed that I would have said in the above-mentioned request that this is about the Beneš decrees. He also mentioned that the word "genossen" is quoted in this request. I personally reply and quote the official title of this motion 47/A (E): motion for a resolution by Dr Martin Grafund Comrades on EU accession conditions for the Czech Republic and Slovenia. ==References== ==References== – I quoted this and nothing else! In connection with the word 'genossen', I refer to a letter from President Fischer, about 1991, in which he has historically clarified the word 'genosus' in relation to applications for all Members of this House, I think, which is why the word 'genossen' is used. If the Freedom Party has problems with this, I can tell you: We also have problems when we are called "genossen" in connection with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6843	Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6865	Mr President. I would like to say to the previous voting process that your finding that there was not one third of the Members present in the room and therefore had not been the decision-making capacity did not match the facts. That's the one point. The second point: I would ask you, Mr President, to announce the results of the vote. They noted: That's not the majority, but you didn't mention the number of pro- and counter-voices.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6909	On the one hand: I was not required to announce a vote result. I asked my co-chairman to join me, and we came to believe that the majority had not been given. Secondly, my vice-chairman has informed me that there are not enough Members in the plenary. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But that was not true!]] I also made sure that a third of the Members were not present. For business treatment: Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6955	Mr President. I take note that: You have said that at this time, a few minutes ago, no one asked for the vote to be announced. It may be like my colleagues say I wasn't in the hall right now. But then I demand that the vote be announced.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6991	We have taken the vote in such a way that we have identified the majority of the minority, but there has not been a request for a name-call vote or a request for a vote-list. [[fierce calls to the SPÖ and the Greens]] That is why this has been done. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is a push, a smooth slide!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Scandal! Scandal! Retire! Retire!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: These are Milošević methods!]] I have heard Mr Pilz's call to the President: “These are Milošević methods!” I interrupt the meeting and ask the clubmen to give me a brief presentation to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7055	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Khol has told me that, in connection with the previous debate, Mr Pilz has used the word'shift'. For this, Mr Pilz, I will give you a call for order. I give you another call for order for you to say: "These are Milošević methods!", and at the same time I announce to you that this will be discussed sufficiently in the Presidential. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Unheard of such a thing! That's a scandal!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For the previous vote, I would like to say to you: No Member was asked to vote, but it was a question of voting against and voting against. My co-chairman, together with me, has counted the vote in favour and against, and it was a clear decision. [[New calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Thirdly, I would like to tell you that in the request for Mr Bundeskanzler's recovery, the quota necessary for that purpose, namely a third of the Members, was not given. My colleague, too, has confirmed this to me during the sitting, not now. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Did you count that?]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel takes place on the government bank.]] Mrs Petrovic spoke on a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7137	Mr President. Without a doubt, the whole process of these votes will have to be discussed in the Presidency. When I entered the hall, a mere superficial narration proved that far more than 61 Members were present. And if you now say, Mr President, that both you and your "co-chairman" have counted the results of the vote within the meaning of a majority of the government parties, I would like to ask you in every way to announce this counted result. From our point of view, it was clearly apparent that you were both looking at the opposition sector alone. I did not have the impression that the representatives of the government parties had actually been raised in numbers, and the Members actually present, and not the total possible number of voting Members. So if you've counted, I'll ask you in every form for the notification of this result.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7179	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You should have put this request before the vote. I have decided, and my co-chairman is sufficiently close to me when I count. This is a clear decision, and the enunciation has been made with it. A further word on business management: Mr. Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7210	Mr President. Under the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the Rules of Procedure must be put to the vote without delay. I have no doubt that at the time when this request was made, the plenary was able to decide. [[Abg. Achatz: You weren't there at all!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You weren't there yourself!]] [[Further violent calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Therefore, almost necessarily the impression must be that the subsequent business-regulatory debate was intended solely to reverse majority relations. A preference of a part of this House by the Bureau, which is an impression that must not arise; but it has emerged in this context. We shall therefore have to discuss this in detail in the President's office, because the dissposition of the majority by the Bureau is not allowed to happen in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7299	Mr Kostelka! I have done nothing but call on the Green Group's request for business, including your group's requests, particularly Mrs Mertel. This has been done in accordance with the rules of procedure, in order to reach the vote without interruption. That's what happened. [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is what we are talking about in the course of Mr Martin Graf's business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7336	Mr President. Unlike the others who have so far spoken, I have been here in the hall all the time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to ask you, the provision of § 59 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to help break through and stop such interlocutory debates. It states: If a Member fails to make a request for business treatment, the President shall be entitled to give him the floor only at the end of the meeting. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is "parliamentaryism"!]] I would ask you to comply with this Rules of Procedure, because in the last debate last week in which President Fischer held the Bureau, he always asked whether a request was put in his speech on business matters. If that was not the case, he always pointed out that it is constant practice that the word for business treatment is only called at the end of the debate. [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] I would ask you, Mr President, to act as democratically as President Fischer in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7386	It is common for each group to speak once in each application for business treatment. This once-to-word approach, as I believe, has taken place on the questions of the business treatment of Members who are now applying for Petrovic. If the other political groups no longer want to speak, I will continue with the agenda. [[Call the SPÖ:The result!]] I shall call on further requests for business treatment in accordance with Mr Graf's request at the end of the sitting. [[Abg. Oellinger: That was not a request!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is what we are continuing on the agenda. The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. Please, Mr Heinzl, I give the floor to you. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We are not finished with this item on the agenda!]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] On my screen, Mr Oellinger appears to be the next speaker, after Mr Heinzl has previously appeared. Mr Oellinger has now come to the fore.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7467	Thank you, Mr President, for choosing to give me the floor. [[Prolonged calls between the liberals and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! In my view, it is not quite a coincidence that, in a debate on human rights, we have to state on the one hand that you, Mr President, act out of conviction in dealing with the Rules of Procedure, but obviously not in accordance with the facts. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to continue to deal with the last quarter of an hour, because I think human rights in Austria are too important. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is very g’scheit!]] I would therefore like to continue in the debate and address the original desire of the government parties, as happened at all in this debate today. At the beginning there was a request from Mr Posch, but then there was the desire of the government parties to set a deadline for this request, because the government parties at one time recognized that it is extremely up-to-date and important to discuss human rights in Austria – on the occasion that a SPÖ functional lists, address lists, were to be drawn up in the Styria. This was a "human rights case" for Mr Westenthaler, which was a serious violation of human rights for Mr Khol. And when conditions changed a little and it turned out that the incidents that have occupied the Austrian public in recent days and weeks are not as dramatic as what the SPÖ official has done in Styria, the government parties have bowed down and have passed on the issue of "human rights in the EU". – Just don’t discuss Austria! Mr Krüger! In this debate, they have made a relatively inexorable comparison that we respect human rights here in Austria, while in France and Belgium and Germany, human rights are being trampled on. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: He didn't say that!]] That is why, Mr Krüger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because you know exactly that the great difference with the Federal Republic and with France, where there have actually been and are serious outrages, is primarily true! – Migrants and migrant workers, who are also outrages against migrants in Austria, but thanks to God, there are no burning asylum homes every year! [[Call the liberals: What "excerpts"? What "excerpts"?]] . I'll read the exclaims to you, I'll give them to you. The difference is that in France and in Belgium and in Germany, governments have taken a clear stand against the extremism of right-wing outs, while the Austrian Federal Government and the coalition parties cannot comment on this right-wing extremism, because at least one party is directly linked to this right-wing extremism. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Numerous calls to the liberals: This is immense!]] – That’s the difference! Ladies and gentlemen! That is why this distinction between Austria and the countries mentioned above is immeasurable by Mr Krüger. I'll try to prove this to you, too. Have we met in Austria in recent weeks and months initiatives aimed at the ban on right-wing extremist organisations? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Such a nonsense!]] I can remember that in the last legislative period – I believe – a Member of the Liberals has made 20 requests concerning the ban on the "Dachterstein Offenhausen". The "Dachterstein Offenhausen" has been banned by the Minister of the Interior because of far-right activities by the Federal Government. And the liberal Member was tirelessly trying to achieve the rehabilitation of the "Dachterstein Offenhausen". [[Deputies Achatz and Jung:A right-wing stone!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Germany, the Federal Government is also trying to set up activities against anti-foreign, racist attacks by calling for the ban of the National Democratic Party, the NDP. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: With us she is already... prohibited!]] There is a wide-ranging debate on whether this ban is currently useful in the Federal Republic of Germany or not. The CSU supports it, and the government parties are in favour of the CDU's view of this rather skeptical. [[Abg. Achatz: Right-wing poet! He's got phantom pain!]] I have already understood your call, Federal Chancellor: With us the NDP is forbidden! The difference and what I want to see, Mr. Federal Chancellor, is that people in the area of the Austrian Freedom Party still love to see and rejoice at German NDP party meetings. [[Abg. Boy: There's no one!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: The Freedom Party...!]] People working in the area of the Freedom Party of Austria are still welcome to attend NDP parties! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Papházy: This is inconceivable!]] [[Abg. Achatz: Call names! Who?]] [[Further calls to the liberals:Who? Who? Names!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I have a limited speaking time and can therefore only recommend: Read the book! If I knew you were so interested in learning names, I would have brought you the illustrations from the respective magazines. I own it, no matter which one. In the "Eckartboten" for example, a Mr. Helmut Müller writes. The chairman of the "Eckartboten" or his carrier association, the "Austrian national team", is a former club of Mr. Westenthaler: Mr. Kowarik. Mr. Kowarik, do you know that? – No, Mr Kowarik. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Müller? Or who?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't know what you're talking about!]] Mr. Kowarik, a countryman in Vienna, is very active in the "Austrian national team". [[Call the liberals:So what?]] And one of the writers of the "Eckartbot", Mr. Müller, is at the NDP's party meeting. Mr Walter Marinovic, not only popular writers in various NDP postilles, is also gladly given as a speaker or as a guest at events of the Young National Democrats and also the NDP. Mr Walter Marinovic has, after all, worked on your cultural programme in the context of the Freedom Education Work. Or want You're telling me you don't know him either? We had a debate on Mr Walter Marinovic in the context of far-right witnesses to the schools. [[Abg. Young: Yes, Mr. Neugebauer and Consorten!]] – No, Mr Neugebauer is not on NDP parties, but Mr Marinovic. While you have the biggest difficulties and have even been caught in foreign election campaigns, propaganda campaigns, foreign propaganda campaigns in Vienna, the government parties could not have been caught both in France and in Belgium and in Germany by representing hostile slogans and content. That's the point! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: What about Mr. Purtscheller? Maybe we should talk about it once!]] But we have a government party that represents xenophobic and racist slogans and content. This, ladies and gentlemen, is still the big difference between Austria, France, Belgium, Germany and whatever other country in Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Are we glad that we are in Austria!]] However, I would also like to read to you other examples from everyday life in Austria, which should cause you not only to produce human rights reports but also to discuss them. Graz: Taxi operators advertise for taxis without foreign drivers: Passengers of friendly local staff coached! – There has also been a demonstration in Graz that has directed against this taxi company. In Vienna there has long been a taxi company that advertises that no foreigners are working. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's a shame!]] Unfortunately, there are no activities in Vienna, either by the Freedom Party or by the Government partner, to make it clear once and for all that this has no place in Austria to advertise to foreigners as employees or to say as taxi companies: We keep our taxis foreign! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] As a Styrian Member, you clearly know what you are talking about. Mattersburg: Signatures against Turkish homeowners. More than 600 Mattersburgers sign collection of racist stereotypes. Disco-Nightlife in Vöcklabruck: Eastern Europeans reject Africans, District Head Team confirms allegations. Vienna: racist attack on Africans. Father and child of Skinheads attacked and injured. These are just a few reports from the last few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: But symptomatic!]] - Of course. There are attacks, even in everyday life, but that is not the point I want to put forward, ladies and gentlemen. What we are particularly interested in in this context is: What about the government parties? How can one of the two government parties give an opinion if it itself is adapted from the top to the bottom with the accusation of racism, with the accusation of xenophobia, which has also been confirmed in international expert reports such as the report of the so-called "three sages"? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's ridiculous!]] What did you do to get to the brink? What are your activities, Mr Westenthaler, to finally make it clear once and for all that you do not represent any anti-foreign, racist slogans and content in the future, in order to distance yourself from the past that you actually have on conscience, especially in Vienna, and to apologize? In Vienna you have led an anti-foreign and racist campaign. Or do you want to dispute that? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He must have taken something! It looks like this!]] It is also about something else, ladies and gentlemen. It is not just about the behaviour of a government party, but about it... – Mr Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He must have taken something!]] If you don't think anything more, you always raise the accusation, someone must have taken something. Repeat in every debate stereotype. I am going to get used to taking up your calls, which I do not classify more closely, because they are self-evident, also publicly, so that you will no longer be embarrassed to have to deny them, as you did in the last debate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You really took something, otherwise you don't have to talk such nonsense and compare this house with Milošević! It's a horrendous thing! That's a scandal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What did Mr. Oillinger take?]] Mr Westenthaler! Since your call for intervention has nothing to do with the debate, I will try to continue on the subject. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ]] You should have the patience to listen to that too. I refer once again to what is the difference in quality between Austria and other European countries in terms of human rights. [[Abg. Edler: Westenthaler is an exit model!]] For the assessment, the review, the control of human rights, there is an institution that is of particular importance, and this is and remains the Ministry of Justice next to the executive. And I would like to say the following: Mr Böhmdorfer considered what Mr Haider whispered to him to be persecution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For you "Doctor Haider"!]] Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, as Mr Windholz, has his predecessor here in the National Council, the statement "Our honor is called fidelity!" did not find any follow-up to this, but kept silent, because he probably could not recognize the subjective intention of the colleague Windholz, while, of course, in the action artist Schlingensief, who used this motive, wanted to provoke the subjective intention of action as Minister of Justice and therefore personally addressed the phone and informed editorial staff that Mr Schlingensief was persecuted for national socialist re-acting that the investigations had begun. The Minister of Justice has said on his own that he has taken the necessary steps to do so. If a Minister of Justice makes such statements when a Minister of Justice sets up such activities, namely, if a person such as Mr Windholz does not want to recognize nothing in a person who then wants to persiflate and provoke this motto, who wants to provoke a reaction in Austria, who on the subjective side wants to recognize the national socialist re-activities, although that is the same Minister of Justice, who otherwise has seen national socialist re-acting in his previous role as a lawyer, if that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, that we have such a Minister of Justice and that this Minister of Justice can cover such activities with your support, you also in such causations do not distance yourself from Mr Böhmdorfer, you do nothing against the fact that Mr Böhmdorfer makes a radical and clean separation from the office of Böhmdorfer-Geff, if you do not do anything, so that Mr Böhmdorfer can continue in his position and continue to cover such activities, then we have a problem with the human rights in Austria. This is also made clear by the number of criminal proceedings and advertisements brought by the law firm Böhmdorfer-Gheneff, i.e. the law firm of that man who is now acting as Minister of Justice, against numerous journalists, politicians, intellectuals, artists. The number does not come from me, Mr Westenthal. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It comes from you, if I may quote from this report that several hundred ads have already been placed. In the meantime, I am afraid, we will soon be sending to the 1,000 ads by the office of Böhmdorfer-Gheneff. And that says more about human rights than your attempt to hide a report on human rights in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7946	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Fallent. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7967	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, I reject your language. At this level, I am not going to go. [[Abg. Oellinger: Do you tell me what you're refusing?]] – I reject your language, Mr Ollinger, your language! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that we in this House should have a political culture that you too should stick to. I think so. That's my view. Your language, your choice of words... [[Abg. Oillinger: Which word do you reject?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Awesome!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Pilz! I refuse to let you compare our President Princehorn with Milošević. I think you have a one-dimensional idea of human rights; Human rights, which seem to be valid only for you and not for the rest of the world. There are several people in this world. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are dealing with a subject on which I too may say something today, and I have a right to say that. If the Freedom Party, and I am a member of this Freedom Party, is accused of being a fascist, then I say: I'm not a fascist, and I don't have to be behind bars for 20 years! – I have the right to say that in this Republic. My friends and colleagues of the Freedom Party too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: You don't know what you're talking about! You have no idea!]] It can't be that this kind of politics is being put in the foreground here in Austria. It just can't be! What do you think you are? You didn't lease the truth! Mr. Pilz! You're the only one who's been charged. That's how it starts. With you, the case is clear, the others are partly about suspicions and probably false accusations. That's it. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Who is the only one accused? When the mob speaks, a lot of things get mixed up!]] But I would like to come to the subject now. I believe that the protection of minorities and the improvement of human rights in this Republic and all over the world are a major challenge in view of globalisation. The Federal Government acknowledges this challenge and this responsibility and believes that it has clearly expressed this in the Preamble. There is no law that violates human rights or minorities. On the contrary! Many positive laws and regulations were created; just look into the Burgenland. A great deal was done in the field of signposting, in the area of town boards, in the field of naming in relation to the rights of minorities. Mr Oberhaidinger says we should read on. - Yes, I am of your opinion. Let's keep reading! The conclusion of the White Report on minority rights in the text: "The Austrian legal system has created a special protection for the minorities living in Austria. This protection exists at the constitutional level. The minority protection granted to minorities living in Austria by the Austrian legal system goes beyond that granted in many other European countries." – I think we can be proud of it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that these are essential steps in the right direction. But we all know that we're not the target and that a lot of work is still waiting for us. Mr Oberhaidinger says we made mistakes and we will continue to make mistakes. – Mr Oberhaidinger! That's probably the reason you're in opposition. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] It should be called: We know we made mistakes, but we'll do better in the future! This is the task of this new Federal Government, and we take this task seriously. We take this challenge seriously, and we accept it, even if we have very bad conditions, even if the situation, the heritage we have taken over, is very difficult. As you rightly say, too little has been done in the areas of minorities, immigration and refugees. We will also create positive laws here, recognize the concerns and needs of these people and implement those measures that will improve the quality of life of the weak in this world. That's why it's all right. It is not crucial who, as a winner here in the House, comes out of the debate, but should be winners, I think, of those people who are concerned. And that's what we're trying to do. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think many are not aware of why we have problems as to why there are tensions in relation to immigration, refugees and the issue of the weak. You know very well that there is a North-South gap, a social North-South gap, an economic North-South gap and probably a North-South one in an ecological way soon. Do you know who is responsible, among other things? – This is our consumer behaviour, our lifestyle! We all have the responsibility to make such contributions to demand fair prices for products coming from elsewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Then turn off the current!]] Here we have to deal with it carefully, and it is important to create a corresponding awareness – in the population as well as in politics. We know that we are at the beginning in many areas. We know that there are also great resistances and other interests. It is important to consider and make appropriate decisions – but always with reference to feasibility. Indeed, there are desires and dreams, but there is something else, and that which is feasible. And we shouldn't shut up before the feasibility. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Spittel...!]] – This discussion will be held in the course of the debate, Mr Pilz, and not now, because I would also like to devote my time to human rights. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] I tell you, we will do this – even in view of the fact that the initial situation was very difficult! In this context, I would also like to talk about the fact that there is something like cavalier crimes in Austria and especially in the Socialist Party, which have been there for a long time and are apparently part of the life and political attitude of this party. Think about it! Mrs Lunacek said it right: It is true that on average women still earn by 31 percent less than men, and women have a right to change that. I believe that the building of privileges, the creation of privileges, has nothing to do with human rights, and that those people who do not have these privileges also have the right to live on them. I believe that an important step has been taken in the last wage negotiations with the officials. For the first time, it has been possible not to set a percentage wage increase, but a base amount, an amount that is fair and equal for all. This is also a right of those people who are at the bottom of the income pyramid. We are also familiar with this, and we will move step by step in the right direction. Many important measures have been taken, but many important measures still need to be followed. The Federal Government accepts the challenge of increasing standards in this area. It is important to have quality in this regard. We accept the challenge of talking to everyone, but we oppose slander, contempt, discrimination, intolerance, even here in this House. I believe that my family friends – the liberals – also have a right to human rights. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8130	Mr Pilz has made a point of correcting the matter. - He's not here. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8157	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! As a lesson of democracy, it was probably not possible to describe this last half hour. On the human rights report and in general: There are tactical games that are as old as the story itself. For example, we've already noticed that perpetrators are being sacrificed by you, but there's also a game, which means: [[Abg. May. Trattner: What do you say about the comparison of Milošević and Parliament?]] "If there are problems inside, then create some outside." – The goal is clear: Distract from your own mistakes! Such distractions are among the main strategies of the government parties, and I would like to mention a few examples, such as the catastrophic electoral defeat of the FPÖ in Styria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Think of your own!]] What's the FPÖ doing? It turns away from its unreasonable behavior and accuses the coalition partner; it can even be said that it threatens how we could all follow it in the media. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Did you win in the Styria?]] [[Abg. Auer: Who has lost more voices?]] Further example – and this could be observed when it came to the rights of minorities – was: The FPÖ is quick to steer off! The whole thing happened in a TV interview on the 10th. October in Carinthia. For example, there have been no answers concerning the abolition of bilingual directors. Or, ladies and gentlemen, what do you think the government duo is doing when it comes to preparing a human rights report in order to look more closely at the actual situation in Austria, learn from it and take action, "evaluate" as it is today? What's going on? – Very quickly, almost reflectively, the government parties raise the pointing fingers and point to the others: The rest of the world and Europe Specials may present their reports first. – Once again, a process that cannot be considered as a constructive signal outside politics. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, issues such as human rights and the dignity of people within the FPÖ and the EIA do not seem to have any meaning. There are also examples for these my claims. One of these examples, where even bred observers of Austrian asylum practice failed to breathe, was the approach of the "simple party member" towards a group of asylum seekers seeking help. Like vital house counsel, he puts them at the door, probably nicely furnished with a train map according to the motto: Out of sight – out of mind! This is a very interesting way of solving the problem, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This example is not yet included in the criticism of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. This criticism was published in a study in September of this year. Two thirds of all asylum seekers are now transferred to completely overburdened private organisations. The number of homeless asylum seekers is increasing. It is also interesting – by the way – that support for refugees by the Ministry of the Interior has decreased by 30 percent within the last half of the year. Another example concerns women's rights, also a criticism of September 2000. A UN committee criticizes the situation of women in Austria and the resolution of the Ministry of Women as one of the first steps of the government. Women's hostility is clearly stated, and I do not need to highlight people; it is clear to all of Austria that we last called on women to resign in plenary. The reasons for this are also known, namely the evasion of women – that is on the agenda. The fact that the Minister, who took over the women's agendas, first thinks of extremism in women's politics and feminism, is unfortunate, but does not come really unexpected. For example, which has already been discussed several times, the fundamental rights of people: It is well known as the two government parties. It could be said that this is a step of democracy with feet. Illegal information collection and any involvement of citizens should be granted, otherwise it could be dealt with in a committee of inquiry. Where the investigations take place is also known. According to research by media, they lead into the dark circle of the "simple party member" of FPÖ, which now spits with its back to the wall poison and galle – even against its own coalition partner. This coalition partner, the ÖVP, acts like the rabbit in front of the snake and does not manage to emancipate and put the facts on the table. If you pay attention to what words are chosen – because the word was spoken of earlier – then you see how people are called, namely, the unemployed, the parasites and drug dealers, the West Bag Napoleons. These are the names for people in this country and also outside. It is clear that FPÖ and the ÖVP do not want a human rights report or an investigation committee. But precisely because they signed the Preamble at the beginning of their government, I urge them to finally stand to their word. If you have forgotten the content of the Preamble, I would like to take a few quotes from it, for example: "The Federal Government advocates respect, tolerance and understanding for all people." [[Abg. Dr. Zernatto: That's it!]] – So you hope it would be. "It strongly condemns and combats any form of discrimination, intolerance and hatred in all areas." – A demand that stands in the room cannot be answered, or you can answer it if you know what the facts are. "The Federal Government is working for an Austria where xenophobia, anti-Semitism and racism do not find a place." - You don't have to say anything about that. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes, yes!]] "It will consistently oppose any form of human-repudiation of thought and its dissemination... It acknowledges its special responsibility for respectfully dealing with ethnic and religious minorities." You still have the opportunity to agree that a human rights report is being carried out so that you can see what the real situation in Austria looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8273	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8294	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Posch was concerned about the situation of human rights in Austria this morning. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Right!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Rightfully, Mr. Col. Right!]] If he is worried, then one should see human rights in comparison, compared to those in which a largely similar one remains. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger sends himself to leave the plenary room]] There you are, Mr Oberhaidinger. - There is a situation. In this regard, we have already discussed the report of the "three wise men" several times today. I would like to address a number of other areas, especially those recently mentioned in the Council of Europe, which you should also know about, namely the situation of asylum seekers at European airports. However, it has proved quite clearly that Austria is by far – by a distance! – has best cut off from all European countries. Since Europe is leading in the human rights field – I believe we are all in it – we can say with peace and satisfaction: Austria has best cut off from all the countries of the world, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But you have nothing else in mind than Austria to keep going down. That's a game we won't join! Other incidents – if we are already comparing – have been enough. When we look at the current tragic development in the Middle East and see what is happening in comparable European countries, we see synagogues burning in France, attacks in the UK and other related incidents in Germany. Jospin, Blair, Schröder – all these are Socialist Prime Ministers. You should perhaps worry about your red comrades about how the human rights situation looks in the parts of Europe they manage, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] We have a second one, which has already become loud today and has also been concerned in the public about the human rights situation in Austria, namely Mr Jarolim. He's not there again, but he's reported himself out of the background a few times before. I can only remind you again and again of the case-law of the Lansky firm, when, in his presence, also in the case of Mr Lansky himself, in which Mrs. Ex-Deputy Hlavac, in which Mr. Goldmann, in the case of the prosecutor Nittel, and some others, on important issues of socialist – not social democratic – that was socialist – legal policy, and because someone, Minister One, is working on a new party programme. It also says: One point of this party program is the dignity of man. In this context, short programmes should be created, with specific attention being paid to the area of justice. The most important thing in the area of justice, of course, is less justice than the area of personnel policy. In this way one has for decades tried to make politics in Austria by taking a massive influence on personnel policy in all possible ministries and forcing it against the will of many Austrian directions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Jarolim and his comrades thought back then about how the party was still more than before – how did he say so beautifully? – can "introduce". That's what it was about the judicial service law. The starting point is, of course, the youth, the young, the legal practitioners, who seem to have done too little towards SPÖ: Here a more reasonable selection procedure would be taken and the young comrades would encourage them to go to the judicial service. – Maybe you also wanted to encourage some young students to become comrades so that they could go to the court. It is discussed at Gabriel Lansky's suggestion, how it can happen, that, for example, in media law – but he has had a lot of imagination – all instances are blue and that is also detectable. Then – now it becomes interesting – comes the idea of a legal sociological investigation. Judges and party books – such surveys – have already been made. What surveys have you made, ladies and gentlemen? Have you perhaps checked, according to the motto of Styria, which party books the judges, prosecutors and employees of the judicial administration have? Is that your idea of right, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? – Mr Jarolim, who has participated in this, dares to talk about human rights. That's the crown on the whole, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then Mr Posch tried to get to know colleagues Ofner and by selective quoting, he tried to put words in his mouth, which he never expressed in this form – everyone sitting in this house knows. He has more or less accused him of equating information with a legal method of collecting money. That was never the point. But there have been, for decades now, legal contacts in Austria, which are based on this method, Mr Posch, if you have never heard of it. The other method you have proposed, Mr Posch – he is unfortunately not there, he has come all the more beautiful – has guaranteed Mr Harald Ofner never said so, nor did he mean so. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Now he's come!]] I think that this is just an old popular saying, Mr. Cot: As the bad guy thinks, he's like that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If there are concerns about human rights in Austria, I would have another point you could think about, namely the reporting of certain media and certain weekly magazines, which raise wild accusations – not only magazines, but also Mr Neugebauer and so on. I recall the time of the letter bomb affair when, on the basis of such wild accusations, countless house searches were carried out in the case of completely unspoiled persons in Austria. No one has apologised for it – neither in the newspapers nor in the ministry so concerned by social democracy and human rights at the time. There was nothing proved, but there was a lot left behind among the people; perhaps it was also some of the things you wanted to do. I quote from the book of the former Security Director Sika about this situation in which this man, who knew what was going on in Austria, writes: "At some point, it must also become clear to the stupidest that it is not possible to vote if a new perpetrator is presented every Thursday." Further down, it says: "Because the Austrians understand it slowly, they already feel the hint of unsavory reporting of a magazine as an allusion to 'NEWS'." – As far as the then Security Director is concerned. "NEWS" – not a word is true, and unfortunately many people cannot resist such reports accordingly. Then, above all, the greens are always wondering that it's too - how did it say before? - soon 1 000 complaints come. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, how should a decent, decent citizen be able to defend himself against such a wealth of claims and so on if he does not choose the path of complaint? Where else should he get justice if not in court? There are a few who try to get her so-called right on the street by maiming stones. That can't be the way. But you can't condemn a citizen of this country... Mr Oellinger! Maybe now you'll interrupt your chewing chew and listen! That really does not belong to this house, but it may correspond to your world view! – Yes, that improves your mouth smell, but not your statements! [[Abg. Oillinger keeps a roll of peppermint carrier.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If a citizen of this country, Mr. Oellinger, complains against what he believes is wrong, then this is his right, and you have no right at all – not at all the least – to criticize it. If he were to throw stones, it would be a different situation, but these people don't. Many of them are too old. [[Abg. Oillinger: I'll read you a little bit!]] I can give you a practical example from my own field. You have read the "Aula", I also read your left-hand publications: by Mrs. Zöchling, Mr. Purtscheller and other people like Mr. Scharsach and so on. Of course, there are always incredibly many untruths in it. I've often thought about not complaining. It was too stupid for me so far, but that will certainly change in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Now I'm bringing you another example of contemplation. Over 20 years ago, I was not politically active. I lived in Upper Austria, and one of these previously quoted authors, Mr. Scharsach, I think, brings an example about the then young officer Wolfgang Jung, who gave a lecture on "From Me to the We". Wolfgang Jung was in a student relationship at the time. [[Abg. Oils: Mm!]] – Mr Oillinger! Mm! How does Mr. Scharsach come to this information? - I'll ask you that. About Wolfgang Jungkonnte at the time in the Penal Register Excerpt, he did not even know that, as he did four months ago, he was driving over a traffic light at Yellow – otherwise he could not be shown anything. [[Abg. Ollinger: "Aula"! The "Aula" is a pit! The "Aula" is a pit! "Aula"!]] Perhaps it was the Stapo, who was then more than left, from which he got information illegally. The "Aula" didn't write about it either. They have stifled countless citizens behind their backs, and they have also acquired Stapo information in a variety of ways. Now I would like to say something about this student connection which you are dealing with, even during Mr Graf's remarks: From this connection, from the same time, there were three Members of this House from two different parties and a Social Democratic countryman. It cannot be so terrible in these student connections. I can tell you that there is more tolerance there than in this area and in the sector of this House, Mr President. That is what I am telling you in the clearest sense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So if we were to think about where to improve the human rights situation, then there would be an essential suggestion to you: Take a look at the way in which some magazines and newspapers report and how to give the citizen the right to resist in an appropriate way. Mr Posch and his comrades should rightly consider this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8475	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8508	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. – unfortunately again not present – Chancellor Schüssel! The question of human rights in Austria must already be a very "important" issue for the government parties if they manage not to be able to win a single minister on this issue that would have an interest in it. That is unfortunate, but it is also significant. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where is Kostelka?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: In the past, State Secretary Wittmann was always sitting there!]] If you still believe, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, that there are no human rights violations in Austria, then I try politely to finally remove your sound from the ears and your eye ties from the eyes to face reality. Ladies and gentlemen! You seem to have escaped to this day that, since you are in the Federal Government, not only the language in this house has become raw, but also outside of the people now suddenly things that have not been trusted are simply natural. [[Abg. Steibl: And the Greens will certainly contribute to it! As polemize as you do no one!]] I can prove this to you by means of a few examples. Today, it is of course now that disabled people are no longer taken away in public transport. We already had that behind us, now it's free to live again. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is also possible for disabled people to be singled out from transport. [[Abg. Steibl: This goes too far – even if you consider!]] It has also become salonable that disabled people are calculated in cost-benefit analyses and says: If you want something, then you should hand it over to others – see taxation of accident pensions. It has also become a self-understanding of the Federal Government that disabled children have to argue about whether they can be integrated into the regular school or not. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We had all of this behind us, but unfortunately we now have these problems in front of us again. That is the result of this federal government! [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: You're ill-informed!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Where did you read this? In the "Falter"?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! They seem still not to understand that it is no longer natural in Austria, even if one belongs to a minority that one may live where one would like to live. You may have heard what happened in Carinthia with your blue country captain or the black mayor Scheucher in Klagenfurt. There it was decreed in a settlement, in Viktring, to prevent disabled people from moving into a house. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's what prevented the head of state? How did he do that?]] – This has happened successfully because Landeshüfer Haider, who is always the representative of the little man or the little woman, has been silent to this day and is still silently silent. This could happen because a black mayor did not stand behind the group of the disabled, but behind the group of so-called ordinary citizens who no longer want disabled people in their housing environment, and that is the reality. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What did the head of state do?]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: What do you blame him now? What are you accusing him of now? What are you accusing him of now?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What did he do? What did he do?]] I accuse him that he has not put a single word behind the minority of disabled people and has made himself strong for living in this settlement just like all the other citizens who want to live there. I'll throw that before him! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Did you inform him? Did you inform him?]] If a country captain doesn't know what's going on in his country, even if all the media are writing, then I'm personally sorry. I am sure the last person who wants to be or will be the Information Centre for Head of State Haider in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That was a red cooperative!]] It would be his job as head of state to take care of the citizens of his country. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This was Comrade Posch's cooperative! That was his cooperative to the Posch!]] But I will not let you interrupt me now, Mr Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why? Let's discuss it!]] You can read all this in the newspapers. You will otherwise know how to get information, so you will also come to this information, which has been written in all the newspapers, if you just want. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Tell us here!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Please inform us!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I don't let you ban the newspaper reading!]] Or, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, have you known that now the following will be re-salable: I have a letter from one interested person who has now been transferred to another by one ministry in this new federal government – the man is disabled. This man must now work in an office that has cast window. If he has to bring his files from one floor to another, he can no longer enter the former law firm in which he was previously employed. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is discrimination against people with disabilities at work! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a violation of human rights if you today put people on a workplace that has grated windows, and to which you refuse access to spaces to which he always had access. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You had a bad dream today!]] Mr Krüger! I am speaking to you personally now. I think it is high time we maintain and develop human rights in Austria. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Don't you know the report of the "three wise men"? Or are you always looking for the negative?]] There are still enough people and groups of people in Austria who are exposed to daily discrimination – whether they are mentally handicapped or physically disabled or people of other nationalities. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Nowhere are the minority rights of as high a standard as in Austria! That's what we've got in writing!]] This group needs protection. This group needs rights. These groups have little human rights in Austria, because there is so little in Austria, and disabled people need an equalisation law. Their political groups, the ÖVP and the FPÖ, are heavily involved in the fact that this equality law is not yet in place. I think that in a republic like Austria, in a state that is one of the richest countries in the world, it has been a long time overdue that minorities are finally safeguarded by their human rights. The fact that minorities have no rights or almost no rights in Austria is also the reason why you, of course, legitimately want to prevent an Austrian human rights report from being issued annually. [[Abg. Haller: Far above the standard!]] These things would have to be in it, and as long as you can prevent these human rights violations from being published black on white, you still have the chance of fighting for a blatant human rights abuse in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Are you saying that the "three wise men" lied?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! How can you justify that minorities – and only minorities – are still being used for jobs for which they do not even receive a pocket money? – This too is a human rights violation, because working without a schilling wage, ladies and gentlemen, is enslavement. This method is still available in Austria and is still strongly supported and expanded. You have already asked the question: Who must fear in Austria? – No one has to be afraid in Austria. – I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that on the basis of the few examples I have brought you today, you will at least learn who in Austria really needs to be afraid again and will have to fear much more in the future. This fear, which we now have again, and this threat which we are now facing again, has actually been part of the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Now they have become reality within not even a year. That, ladies and gentlemen, you can't explore if you're even a bit ready to finally put off your ear flaps and your eyebands. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8895	Mr Pilz has made a point of correcting the matter. According to § 58 para. I am going to give him the floor to this after the debate has ended. The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8922	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr, you yourself know that these accusations regarding the German Federal Government's disability policy are unfair and exaggerated. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Policy in this direction is one of the main objectives of the efforts of the new Federal Government. [[Ah-yes, by the greens.]] You also know that the taxation of the accident pension was, on the one hand, an act of justice in relation to invalidity pensions and, on the other hand, a billion disabled people who are being invested exactly in the directions you have set up here. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Humanity! Treffenheit between the eyes!]] [[Abg. Oils: Humanity!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Human Rights Committee should submit a report before the plenary stating that human rights are being respected in this country and that it has a government that is constantly trying to ensure it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: It's already clear at the beginning, the result!]] Mrs Muttonen quoted the preamble of the Federal Government. I do this in detail because you don't like to hear that, but you should listen to it. [[Abg. Oellinger: Tell your Minister of Freedom! Tell Mr. Schmid! Tell Mr. Schmid!]] This Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, " favours respect, tolerance and understanding for all people, regardless of their origin, religion or belief. It strongly condemns and combats any form of discrimination, intolerance and hatred in all areas. It strives for a society characterized by the spirit of humanism and tolerance towards the members of all social groups." This "federal government works for an Austria where xenophobia, anti-Semitism and racism do not find a place. It will consistently oppose any form of humane disdainful thought and its dissemination and will work for the full respect for the rights and fundamental freedoms of people of all nationality – regardless of why they are present in Austria." Ladies and gentlemen! Compliance with this preamble has been checked by the "three wise men" of the EU. I know that you have tried with your hands and feet that the "wise" report also contains critical passages, especially about the Freedom Party. Yet, in this report of the "three wise men" it is clearly stated that the Federal Government adheres to this Preamble – whether you like it or not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: And what about the liberals inside?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Oils, peace!]] And because many of my previous speakers have also mentioned the question of the questioning of the language, I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that you repeatedly force us liberals to mention the examples: A European-parliamentary of the SPÖ calls the liberals "hospitals". In your dark circle, there are people who believe that you should shoot Haider! There are still SPÖ officials who have announced that they will be able to access the weapons if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! They are your sympathizers who go to the street with the sounds "resistance! Resistance! Haider, bowl on the wall!" Ladies and gentlemen of the Left! You should, if you are sitting in a glass house with regard to the rawness of the language, do not throw stones. We simply want fairness from your side. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] They are also irresponsibly making our country bad on this issue. You are making our country bad, and you are misusing the issue of human rights as an injustice to the domestic policy debate with the government. Ladies and gentlemen! Your accusations, which you have formulated here, lack any basis!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9056	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9091	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been discussed in several ways in the debate about the importance and importance of sensitivity in the language when it comes to human rights. I have been sitting in my seat and have listened very attentively to Mrs Haidlmayr, but I have also followed very closely, as Mr Schweitzer and others have conversed here with Mrs Haidlmayr in an incredible way. What has been communicated is not a "normal" – I say now – dialogue between speakers at the speaker's desk and MEPs in the plenary, but something else has been communicated, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: What?]] That's it! [[Abg. May. Trattner: What has been communicated?]] That's exactly the examples. It is precisely that when it comes to being sensitive to human rights or not. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You say the untruth!]] It's about taking them seriously, or whether you see the whole thing as a nuisance, as a funny chatter. [[Abg. May. Trattner: We take this very seriously!]] And that's what you're doing here all the time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You can still look so cruel, we don't take this away! A gruesome present is not yet credible!]] Mr Bösch has just taken up the preamble of the Government Convention. I just want to remind you: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has written this preamble for you, and the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has not even had such a hard time writing it, because what he wrote there would normally not have to be written into the main book in Austria, because it concerns general human rights, which were proclaimed in 1948 and which one would have to think that no one – neither the President of the Federal Government nor even the President of the Federal Government – would have to pay attention to ensuring that they are respected, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Minister of Finance has today... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop it! Nobody listens to you!]] Yeah, that's how it's going all the time. It's pointless, too. They do not want to deal with the issue of human rights. I may say what I am saying here to the opposition address, perhaps to the address of those who are listening here, but I do not think that we are going to encounter open ears there in terms of human rights. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Come to the contents at last!]] [[towards the liberals]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Everyone may take a picture of how seriously we take it if we discuss human rights here in this Chamber, here in this House. [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Yes, that's what you see in your presence! A third presence!]] This morning the Minister of Finance has announced to us that we must build a new state, a different state. - Yes, this is an announcement, ladies and gentlemen. Only one example from his budget speech, and this has to do with human rights; I could have taken dozens of other examples, but I only take one example out. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Is the cast farmer taking part in a vote today? Is he going to vote?]] [[Abg. Silhavy: The Westenthaler is also always gone!]] He speaks in connection with the pension reform of the multi-pillar system and then says a very, very significant sentence, I would say, namely: A first important step in a highly attractive self-sufficiency has been taken with the purpose of decommissioning the half-manufacturing amount. [[Abg. May. Trattner: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer, who is just taking his place) Do you agree today?]] I think that is exactly that, in terms of human rights, he has written into the master book in the Supermarket register, ladies and gentlemen. That is what he clearly meant: the attractive self-sufficiency, the attractive measure for all those who obviously have so much at their disposal that they can also carry this additional insurance, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What does this have to do with human rights?]] And then I'll take a next paper, and that's it, the 1948 human rights declaration. It contains articles on social security, on the right to work, on social care. These are human rights, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You would have had enough time during your reign!]] Today we have been very often discussed what should not be discussed in the Committee on Human Rights. It's not difficult at all: Take this article by hand and read it! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This majority in this House was reserved for this committee to exist at all! You didn't allow him 30 years ago! For 30 years the SPÖ has resisted the fact that this committee exists!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] It should also be noted, Mr Graf, that: No one – some of our Members have said this today – can stand up somewhere, no one, absolutely nobody, whether in Austria or in other countries, and say that the issue of human rights is not something too, which is why we are constantly – constantly! – have to knock on your own chest. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You have prevented this committee from being here! This majority has only made it possible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is a double morale!]] And I take this claim for social democracy, others refuse to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's embarrassing what you're doing!]] It is not easy to deal with the issue of human rights, and we also have to deal with this issue intensively – no matter what the party is called, no matter what the people are called. It's just the question: Do you take it seriously or don't you take it seriously? These rights don't just fall into the roof, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A embarrassing self-righteousness that you manifest there!]] They don't value it. We are constantly aware of this, even in your debates. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: 30 years the SPÖ has prevented this committee!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, exactly!]] Mr. Graf! You can still call so loud, you can still yell so loud, you only confirm what I said at this speaker's desk here in the first place, and in so far, I think, you can keep doing so quietly – the confirmation makes me sure. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We will do the same!]] You speak reality correctly, ladies and gentlemen, and you speak the protests small. Mr Westenthaler meant that no stone would remain on the other side. Oh, how true, ladies and gentlemen! And Mr Ellmauer spoke again today about the best practice methods. "Best practice" is modern and EU countries should be used. Where are our best practices in Austria, ladies and gentlemen? – The Human Rights Report could have identified – among other things – where the best practices in Austria are. – No, you want to watch other countries, you want to keep eye on other countries, but even we are absolutely without guilt. First of all, this confirmed to me today the speech by Mr Finanzminister and also the debate we had in the course of the day in connection with the Rules of Procedure: Democracy does not mean taking the democratic right to question democratic freedoms, ladies and gentlemen. It's not meant! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Women's rights are particularly human rights, and I would also like to talk about them. This will probably be another issue, which has not lost anything, not even in the Human Rights Committee – we have heard it all today – but if I look at what you are about to decide here in this House – from the cuts in unemployment support started over all the difficulties and disadvantages you impose on single parents, especially in connection with unemployment benefit – if I look at the measure of punishment of childless women and much more, then we have our hands full to do, ladies and gentlemen, to intensively discuss the issue of human rights, the issue of women's rights and human rights – in Austria and, above all, here in Parliament. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You wanted to question the widow's board!]] Mrs Bauer! We can and will continue to hold this debate. It is not a question of creating a fair regime in the matter of the rightful and necessary financing of co-insurance, it is a question of distinguishing between childless women and women who have born children, no matter how the circumstances of life are right. Tell me an example that makes a 50-year-old woman who has not born a child different from a woman who has a child at the age of 20 and now has a 30-year-old child. Where is the difference, except that one should be punished, except that one should be discriminated against, because, for whatever reason, no child has been born, ladies and gentlemen? And against that we refuse! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: One is mother, the other is not!]] That's right! You confirmed it to me. Thank you very much! I didn't want to hear anymore. It is precisely this distinction that you make, and I say that this distinction is discriminatory, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: What do you call the women with children? What do you call them?]] Keep going! You only confirm our analysis, ladies and gentlemen, including you from the People's Party. [[Calls and calls between the Greens and the ÖVP.]] I am also talking about violence against women and children. In addition, there is a very strange debate, a very strange debate. There is talk of violent acts, of unknowns, of large, dark unknowns, perhaps also dark skin color that force women and children. If some such cases happen, it's bad enough, but you're not talking about 80 percent of the violent crime against women and children in the domestic area, ladies and gentlemen. This is blind, this is a one-sided debate. It is necessary that we take particular care of the domestic area in the debate on violence against women and children. And only the independence of women, only independent life will also make them sure that they can free themselves from such violent conditions on their own and do not have to endure for years, for decades, ladies and gentlemen. That would be consistent policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Another topic – Mrs Lunacek has already pointed out – is the debate on § 209 of the Criminal Code. I also followed with great attention in the last Human Rights Committee that Members said that representatives of the ÖVP had to think about it. We have already tried in committee to speed up this thought, because it is a very simple matter: This section 109 needs to be deleted, ladies and gentlemen, and this one word – "missing" – in the criminal code we would have done very quickly. We really don't need to discuss this for long. [[Abg. Haller: 209, but not 109!]] I don't know with what variants They will come, I hear only – and I say now at this point – that the intention is to reduce the age of protection to 16 years, but at the same time to raise the age of protection to 16 for everyone else. [[Abg. Haller: Are you talking about § 209?]] Although homosexual couples would be discriminated against on this issue, all sexuality would be criminalised, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: 209 means that!]] If this is your perspective, I do not know where we stand and what we are doing to people, especially young people, in the future. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] Human rights are indivisible, ladies and gentlemen, and they do not tolerate relativizing them or making fun of them – even through intermediate calls. It is the task of politics not to split people. But that's exactly what happens now. It is the task of politics and of all politicians to prepare people to lead people there, to accept acceptance between and among people – tolerance would be far too little for me – and that these human rights are really something we must make every day, but not endless debates here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9596	To make an actual correction, honourable Member has the power to do so. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9662	Mr President. Mrs Prammer, I do not know what you mean by standing here and giving something of yourself that has not happened. You have claimed that I would have discussed with my colleague Haidlmayr in a way that does not belong. [[Abg. Silhavy: You have no sense at all! You can't articulate yourself!]] I have not discussed with Mr Haidlmayr in any way that is not heard, but I have asked her a question which she has also answered me, Mrs Prammer, in a very polite way. That means that what you have tried to present here has not happened and therefore does not correspond to the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9697	I am now interrupting the meeting until 3 p.m. on the subject of urgent question.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9722	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer and comrades to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning FP-Spitzelaffaire – illegal transfer of police data to third parties (1349/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9758	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 1349/J. In the meantime, as this has been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9982	Mr Gusenbauer, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Gusenbauer for his answer. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10004	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What has been presented to us by the Freedom Party in the last few months is quite right for many Austrians to chase their backs. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's all happened among SPÖ ministers!]] You have started by saying that you have already made the demand, together with the Minister of Justice, that opposition workers should be best prosecuted in the middle of spring. That's what it was. Her first attempt to attack parliamentary democracy. [[Abg. May. Saviour: This is the untruth!]] For the second time, you have covered all of your critics throughout the summer with floods of complaints, which have been taken from the law firm of the Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer. And now the FPÖ spicy affair becomes reckable – the preliminary highlight of attacks on democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Much becomes clear to you in these days: I can remember exactly when your old partyman was standing here at the speaker's desk and said he could get all the information he needs. I can also recall exactly when he said that he would use even the most sensitive information against people in the public. In the meantime, we know how the FPÖ and their old party-man got this information, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is obviously a very delicate system, which has been set up here, a system consisting essentially of three groups of persons: those who use the information in public, the destroyers of the public debate. They need the engineers, so that they can finally correct all those who work on the ground. And then there are the machines of this gear, of which Mr Rumpold and Mr Kreissl were mentioned in the public today, among others. This is the threefold classification from the men for the rough to those who have the public debate, my very dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is obvious that an attempt was made to establish, within the Austrian executive who is quite pleased with the people, a secret chief police officer who had the task of collecting information about ungrateful political competitors with methods beyond the rule of law, in order to be able to complete them in the public. This is for the first time in the history of the Second Republic that such a concerted attack on our rule of law was planned! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And the question is, what people did you see? We have learned from Mr. Kleindienst's publications, which have until recently been very faithful in your ranks, that they are artists, intellectuals, political competitors, but also individual charitable organizations such as the Caritas. What's behind it is quite simple: The target of your hidden, unauthorised investigations are persons who have been engaged in public for people, for liberalism and for an open society. And all those, from André Heller to Caritas, you see as your political enemies – and so you deal with them too! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] It is no wonder that you are so sensitive to these groups, because you have grown up with a policy that wants the exact opposite of what these personalities stand for. They have made a policy, not for people, but against people, with the building of an enemy. This is your political brand, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question therefore arises: How have the orders been made in this context? Every day we learn from magazines – today in the "NEWS", last weekend in the "FORMAT" and in the "profile" – who have finally been the executive organs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: These are your party leaves! These are all your party leaves!]] The question still arises: Who were the middle men, and who were the backmen? – The nervousness of Mr. Westenthaler as an engineer already allows individual conclusions on the contexts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'm trembling!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: An engineer sweared!]] In this context, it is not only interesting who, at what time, has carried out what inquiries in the ECIS system, which is an extremely sensitive matter, it also raises the question of what requests have been made to other archives and archives which have not yet been subject to the Special Commission. In this context, it also raises the question: Who has transferred what amounts of money to which officials, and what signatures do the respective transfers carry? If Mr Westenthaler is completely upset about the phone, he is now probably calling his party friend, Mr Kreissl, who is probably one of the hubs in all of this scandal, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler is just calling]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: (in the direction of Abg. Haigermoser) Go, sit down!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Will you send me out?]] You obviously have your own election statement "Power needs control!", which you have represented in the past, even completely misunderstood. He obviously means to you: "Power is control!" They want comprehensive control of all your misguided personalities in this country. And this is a democratic scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If your old partyman has spoken of the founding of the "Third Republic" when you have spoken about making "order" in the editorial offices, if you have pointed out that all editors and journalists should know that they should "not bite the hand they feed", or if you have pointed out how you believe to make order, then there is always a fundamental difference between us and you: You confuse liberal opinion with free opinion – and you confuse a free state with a liberal state. What you want is a way away from democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The question is: Who else can be sure, Minister of the Interior? The Austrian executive has a high reputation, but because of what has happened, each Austrian now raises the questions: Did my data get queryed? Who were they asked from? What has been done with these data? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one asks you!]] Who paid for it? And finally, In which circles does this information circulate? And in all that has happened there is the question of whether this is not just the tip of an iceberg and whether there is not a much larger system behind it, which is quite right to shake all Austrians. Minister of the Interior! They have a crucial role and role on this issue, because it is about the trust of the Austrians in the rule of law, and it is about the trust of the Austrians in the executive. The only thing that can restore this confidence to 100 percent is the 100 percent, non-stop and rapid reconnaissance of this mega-democracy scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Minister of the Interior! ==References====External links== October announced that you will submit a report within 14 days. These 14 days were over yesterday, but the report is not available to Parliament until today. The magazines published on the weekend, however, must also be taken from file numbers on the basis of the announcement, that clearly parts of this report have already been passed on. So the question to you, Minister of the Interior: What can some of the Austrian magazines know what you want to abstain from the Austrian Parliament? Why don't you give the freely elected Member the same information as individual Austrian magazines, Minister of the Interior? That is the question we have to ask. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Murauer and Mr Großruck.]] Minister of the Interior! We consider this urgent question to be an invitation to you today, because our proposal in the presidency was that, after the 14-day Commissioner's Commissioner for the Interior should come before Parliament and report here in accordance with his own announcement, but the two government groups have rejected this proposal. Therefore, in the sense of the Enlightenment, we have felt obliged to ask you, Mr Minister, with a urgent question to the House. Perhaps you today are inclined to give answers to the questions we have to ask you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister of the Interior! I know the whole thing is sensitive. As we can see today from the magazines, it was only yesterday that the order was given to open individual accounts. But some confessions of Mr. Kleindienst have already been published, which are quite clear... – [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] It's all in the magazines. You just need to read it, Mrs. Deputies. We depend on the news of the magazines, because the Minister of the Interior has so far not provided any information – I am terribly sorry, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So the order to open the accounts was given. That is, it is obviously tried to understand how the money flows went. There are already some very clear public accusations and also a confession by Mr Kleindienst. But the question is: What method are the studies conducted with? According to the method that all information is checked with all the means available by law, or is there any other priorities here from coalition discipline? – Minister of the Interior! I would be very pleased if you could confess today that you are interested in a restless clarification of this scandal of the special class and give us the information. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is also interesting how political responsibility is dealt with in this context. We can remember that in the last few weeks here in Parliament, it has been decided to set up committee of inquiry, in cases where the courts have not even taken action. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Schlögl or One?]] The question, of course, arises: Why should there be no committee of inquiry in such a very serious political matter, in the case of completely clear moments of suspicion, which are to lead directly to Westenthal and to Haider, via Mr Rumpold and Mr Kreissl? – This is the question that everyone is asking. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Was the lock or one?]] Interestingly, we understand that Mr Alt-Parteiobmann wanted to recommend to his group that the request for an investigation committee be accepted. As a result, Mr Ingenieur meant: only after the judicial surveys. And today we have to learn that the Freedom Party is obviously not prepared again to enter the proof of truth, but is interested in a further concealment of these facts. This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you, Mr Westenthaler, explain everywhere, everything will dissolve, there is nowhere in there, and in the meantime obviously Mr Kreissl and I would like to ask you the question: Why don't you want the political links of this summit scandal to be examined in an investigation committee? What's the matter with you? Is it your responsibility in your party? Is it your personal involvement in this matter? What are you doing? Otherwise, you will be at hand with an investigation committee on every matter. Why not in this case? – Tell us what you have to hide, Mr Westenthaler, in the sense of the democracy of our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is hardly a day when new suspicions of abuse of this system appear again and again in various federal newspapers – whether in St. Pölten or, as was the case now, in Salzburg or, most importantly, in Vienna. And again and again the same names appear: names from the dark circle of the Old Partyman of FPÖ and the Lord Westenthaler. And the hub of all these machinations is always the liberal trade union AUF, which obviously are the machine masters of this matter. Minister of the Interior! If you want our executive to serve all Austrians, and if you want to be a red and white-red Interior Minister, as you always say, then have to To remove this secret chief police from the FPÖ in our executive. There is no alternative, ladies and gentlemen, to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, the question arises, why, for example, the Federal Chancellor, who bears the overall responsibility for the Federal Government and who is to orient himself to the entire state welfare, is not necessarily silent on this matter. [[Abg. Nürnberger: The great silence!]] Does this – obviously so – have to do with the new sounds of force coming from Carinthia, with the calls of the Old Partyman to the Coalition Reason? Does the coalition reason also include the concealment of this pitfall scandal or the delay of the Enlightenment or at least the delay of the political investigation here in Parliament? – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! In such a scandal one would expect a clear word from a Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister of the Interior! You have the opportunity to prove your credibility. You can stand up to the questions raised in the urgent question and present to Parliament all the results of your investigations so that light gets into the dark of this matter. The strength you are able to provide this evidence will ultimately be the category of assessment. Is it for you to protect fundamental and state rights from the coalition reason or the coalition reason? – It is up to you, Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10355	To answer the question addressed to him, the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Mr Straster. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as the scope of the question is concerned, the speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10376	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing operations which have been a number of years ago, but which are at least going back to 1993. [[The Greens are watching the representatives of the liberals by means of toy field stickers in the colours yellow/blue.]] [[Ah-and-oh-noise with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even if I am only responsible for this place for a few months, I will do everything I can to clarify these processes without having regard to the rank and name and without regard to the party and the stand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm going to do that, but I haven't looked into why this hasn't happened before. We need this because we need two-fold protection and we also think that two-fold protection is necessary. First of all: The citizen is entitled to protection from abuse. Secondly, Our officials are also entitled to protection from miscredit, ladies and gentlemen. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will design our investigations in such a way that, if necessary, three consequences are possible and to be met. First: possible criminal consequences. You know, preliminary surveys have been started. Our investigative authorities work in the service of the prosecutor and on his behalf. And here I say what I can say: There are processes to be followed in detail and to be followed in every form, together with the prosecutor, with the investigative judges, in detail and in detail. Secondly, it is a matter of disciplinary responsibility. The previous investigations in this area have shown that some officials from curiosity and sometimes also for training purposes have access to this system. Hiezu I say very clearly and clearly, the first case is not justified and will also have disciplinary consequences, will also have to be prosecuted. There are now some such requests. For example, there is an official – I can carry it out because it is in my area and not in the field of the investigative judge and the prosecutor’s office – from which – it will be possible to investigate for what reason; it should be ruled out that there are some political reasons – a few hundred requests – perhaps out of curiosity, perhaps from boredom. That is not to be justified, and that will also have disciplinary consequences. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, it is also about possible organisational measures in this area. I am grateful and happy about this - and I also thank you from the Director-General for the public security - that we have immediately put forward five emergency measures and a medium-term measure following the notification of these cases: the four-eye principle of radio or telephone requests, the four-eye principle of documentation, the strengthening of service supervision and the strengthening of ongoing checks in documentation, and the enhanced ongoing checks beyond the random generator, in case of random checks. I also, together with the Director-General for Public Security, put in place a medium-term measure. Firstly, within weeks, a group of experts from the executive and computer sectors will make appropriate proposals to ensure that this system, which we need, needs to be data safe in the future. Secondly, it will examine how the controlling can be designed for those who have access to these data. And thirdly, it is to be examined how the citizen's relationship to the data stored about him is. This work is ahead of us, and I think – without prescribing to the results of the expert group – that this work will work intensively for some time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that every party, including every parliamentary party, meets its own, sometimes party-political distractions. But I also ask you to understand that, in a rule of law, the presumption of innocence must be applied to the investigators and will continue to apply in the future – and that will be the case in this case too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From this point of view, I invite everyone – all citizens, all parties; and I also invite Mr Kleindienst – to provide their knowledge of the Special Commission in the interests of full clarification. This is necessary in order to clarify quickly and perfectly. I would like to invite you to give us all the knowledge you have in this context by means of the Special Commission or by means of the Directorate-General. We're going to go after every hint. But I also say very clearly: All must be clear that suspicions, suspicions, suspicions – if there are such – and pre-conceptions not only contribute not only to clarification, but also to a whole profession which is not used to this profession and which is not due to it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Beggars!]] I will therefore do all I can to make it clear and complete that the processes will be researched impartially and that it will also be very hard to show and eliminate what might have been changed for years on a disciplinary or organisational basis. I'm allowed to hold on again: In our house is determined and not speculated, and in our house is determined and not directed, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why I have made sure that this special commission can work freely, free of any influence, including the influence of the Minister. I have made sure that all the financial, organisational and human resources required are made possible. I have also made sure that the report you have referred to, Mr Gusenbauer, comes first to the competent prosecutor and then only to the Minister to rule out any suspicion that there would be some kind of influence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Gartlehner: First the editors!]] But I will fight just as passionately for any grey zones to be banished as a possible playground for black sheep, so that – and I would also ask you to support the police and the Gendarmerie and the Criminal Service – an important, vital craftsmanship for the police, for the Gendarmerie and also for customs remains preserved and can continue to develop and be safe or, if there are gaps, will be safe. Thirdly, I will do all I can to ensure that a large service, which nearly 30,000 officials provide every day for our country, is not reduced by a small service. That can't be, and that can't be! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to answer the urgent questions, and I can assure you that I will answer these questions extremely correctly and precisely according to the requirements you have offered, namely, according to the principles of state law. Question 1: With regard to the jurisdiction of the case and bearing in mind the obligation to remain silent, I am not able to announce the state of play of the investigations of the Special Commission in detail for these compelling legal reasons. On question 2: The Directorate-General for Public Security took place on 11 November. In October 2000, a first report was sent to the Special Commission of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Today, the second report, together with documents on investigation results, was returned to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Question 3: I refer to my obligation to preserve the silence of office also with regard to the non-publicity of the judicial proceedings. On the basis of the applications of the Public Prosecutor's Office, this is constantly informed by the Special Commission. – By the way, I may refer to the answer to question 2. Question 4: The first report of the Special Commission mentioned in my reply to question 2 was submitted to the public prosecutor's office in Vienna under the number of documents referred to in the question, 20 000/144-GD/00, and includes the level of investigation up to 11.10.2000. Question 5: The interior and the court. On question 6: In order to avoid any appearance of partiality, the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office has already been made aware of the facts in question. Question 7: Not known at the moment. Question 8: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – I refer here again to the obligation to remain silent. On the question 9: As far as data applications of the reporting obligation to the data processing register of the Data Protection Commission are concerned, according to § 17 para. 1 Data Protection Act 2000, the notifications were returned to them and also registered by the data processing register. There, the notified applications can be used in accordance with § 16 para. 2 Data Protection Act 2000 are viewed by everyone. – On request, I am willing to inform the House of further details. In so far as the data applications according to § 17 para. 3 For example, for the protection of the constitutional bodies of the Republic of Austria, I am prepared to comment on this subject in the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Question 10: The persons entitled to access are listed in a user administration and their access rights. This includes, for example, the security authorities and security departments as well as customs officials. The respective access to data can only be done within the scope of the granted access rights. The data will be accessed in accordance with § 14 para. 2 paragraph 7 Data protection law 2000 recorded. – I am also prepared to comment on this matter in the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Question 11: No. Question 12: At the moment, according to the Special Commission, no evidence has emerged or has been compacted in such a way that there is a need for further investigation in this case. On the question 13: No, there are no hand archives to find in the EKIS data input. Question 14: Yes, according to § 14 para. 5 Data Protection Act 2000 shall be kept for three years for protocol and documentation data, unless otherwise provided by law. Question 15: I trust the Austrian security authorities and independent justice. Both judicial and security authorities have sufficient expertise to deal with the matter. The acquisition of foreign experts is therefore not necessary from the point of view of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. On the question 16: Yes, to the extent that the data transfers go beyond the notification of defenders who make a declaration that they want to encourage civil service, I am prepared to comment on this in the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior. Questions 17 and 18: No, there is currently no reason for such an operation. On question 19: I would like to ask you again Your understanding that I do not allow the non-publicity of the preliminary proceedings and the obligation to comply with the confidentiality of office to answer this question. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10568	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10596	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that I put forward a sentence in my speech, because I would like to underline this statement that I have already made in committee here in plenary. In the past, we have always been protecting against officials who carry out their duties correctly, and of course we are doing so in the future. We Socialists do not allow an entire profession to be discredited. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister – and I assume that he is indeed trying to bring light to this very sad matter – said in the "ZiB 2": We are investigating where it seems necessary from our point of view! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in this one-time scandal in the Second Republic, there is no question of how the Federal Minister assesses the need for information, because that is an extremely sensitive question. The question is about the right of citizens and not about a decision made by the Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, it is about showing how we have worked in the past, how we are working in the present and what is happening. That is the decisive! Many citizens who sit here in the gallery have expected to receive answers because they understandably feel a very high degree of uncertainty. You will leave this plenary room with the same uncertainty that they came here with. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we all here – and we, the representatives elected by the citizens, we as the lawyers of the citizens – have the right to get information, and not only to be satisfied with the answer: I can't say! I can't say! Let's see! – That is why, Minister of State, and you, ladies and gentlemen, as the decision-makers here, I ask you to agree to a committee of inquiry – to respect the rights of citizens! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You demand the breach of law!]] Mr Westenthaler! If you are already putting yourself into my speech, I do not want to keep away from the citizens, which more than dubious game you are playing here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Come on!]] Now stop! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Mr. Haider, ladies and gentlemen – I think a well-known person – throws in the "profile" of 16. In October 2000 Mr Westenthaler proposed a much too good relationship with Mr Kleindienst. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the proof of the top coward!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kleindienst is that man who, with his book, has put a lot into motion as far as the liberals are concerned, and Mr. Haider now complains that Mr. Westenthaler had a much too good relationship with Mr. Kleindienst. Mr Haider is doing this, not the Social Democrats. What does Mr Westenthaler say about Mr Kleindienst in his typical reaction role? – I quote literally from the 5th press. October 2000: "That's why." [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (holding on the seat with both hands) I still hold on!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Will you be aware of the extent to which Mr Westenthaler, who is the central figure in this unique scandal of the Second Republic, chooses and what procedure he is taking! He is accused by his own party observer of having too close a relationship with Mr. Kleindienst, and at the same time Mr. Westenthaler is trying to destroy it by saying: "something worse." I wanted to show you what rules of play apply to the liberals. That's a shame, Mr. Westenthaler. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Because it is so typical of the roles played by the individual officials of the liberals, I can still give an example: At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we called for a protocol to be made. Perhaps you can remember – and I am just saying this now because I want to make a correct point – that at the special session of the National Council a massive accusation was made against me by Mrs Partik-Pablé. She claimed that I would have voted in favour of Mr Westenthaler not being a member of the Committee on the Interior. I have disputed this, but it is of no use, because this statement by Mrs Partik-Pablé is in the Minutes. But now I quote from the minutes of this meeting of the Committee on the Interior. There I said: "However, I believe that the fact whether Mr Westenthaler is sitting in or not will not affect or inhibit the investigations and further steps in any way. That is why I believe, Mr Pilz, - speaking to him - "that you have already answered this" - that is, whether he remains inside or not - "but we will be excited to see how Mr Westenthaler will react to it." So I didn't say a word to go. But that's your way: In the moment you are attacked, immediately after a certain irritation pattern, reflectively start a counter-attack. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (holding on the seat with both hands) I still hold on!]] I believe that the citizens of this country have a right to the end of this ugly kind of policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the fact that all that has happened is a terrible scandal, this is a massive shock in the confidence of citizens in that state. You used the slogan once in an advertising campaign: "Rerule Austria." I promise you that you will use this as a marketing concept, but what you are doing now is nothing but massively shaking the foundations of this state. And that is the real shame in this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Allow me – out of deep conviction!; not because it is a matter of asking an opposition party, but because it is a question of the rights of citizens in that country – to ask you: Voices You have to set up a committee of inquiry so that this case can be resolved in full! It's only been a few minutes since my party president's speech, and I've got to make an addition to what he said. He has shown that this case is already continuing in Salzburg. I can bring you the following message: In Vorarlberg we're already going down and over. We have a massive scandal in every federal state. If you are not interested in finding him, you are guilty, and in this way you step up the rights of citizens with feet!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10748	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10770	Ladies and gentlemen! I turn first to Mr Schwemlein, who has just lamented the uncertainty that arises here in Parliament because of this debate. [[Abg. Schwemlein: It is about the rights of citizens!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] Sure he said that! – Member of the House of Swimmling! They are the ones who contribute enormously to such an uncertainty, because they present questionable information from magazines as if they were official results, and this produces the worst uncertainty. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Prejudgment!]] Mr Gusenbauer has really drawn a gruesome picture here, told a horror fairy tale, and he has made bold constructions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Gruselbauer!]] It was really nothing too bad for him to use it as a suspicion just to draw the liberals in there. [[Abg. You don't have to move in, you're in the middle of it!]] I wonder, Is this a political wishful image of you? Mr. Gusenbauer spoke of a "fine-citizened system". Even the word "genders" has not been omitted, which the politicians should run over their backs when confronted with this "spitty affair". [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The human being, not the politicians!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The people are not as brewed as you are!]] I would be the first, Mr Gusenbauer, and Mr Schwemmlein, the informers you are based on, because they have absolutely misinformed you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: With seven we started, now it's more than 80!]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me! I think it's important what I have to say. – Mr Gusenbauer was not in the committee, and that is why he obviously depends on fantasy stories. If you had been to the Committee, Mr Gusenbauer, you would know that there could be no link between data and politicians. That is clearly what the Minister has said. [[Abg. Swimmling: There we were in two different committees!]] The only proven in all this top cowardry is the abandoned SPÖ community from Schwechat. It has been demonstrated that he has passed on data. [[Abg. Sweamlein: That's your way again: to distract from your own mistakes by pointing to others!]] – No, that’s not my way, but it’s obviously the kind of social democrats. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now you are annoyed, Mr Schwemlein, because I have kept this up to you. You could have mentioned it yourself that you are sitting in there quite neatly. Mr Schwemlein and Mr Gusenbauer! They have, for example, established a link between Peter Westenthaler and incarcerations. Mr Kleindienst has clearly stated: I don't know a case at Westenthal where he would have asked a police officer for information. – So what more do you want?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Son of a bitch: He gave him the resolution!]] As far as informants are concerned,... [[Abg. Swimmling: You are unstoppably contradicting each other!]] But you already want to believe Mr Kleindienst! Your line is quite clear: It's just a question of sinking FPÖ politicians. We have already noticed this in the committee, and we note this again today. [[Abg. Swimmling: Not at all! That's what your own people do!]] I would like to say something to you, Mr Schwemlein, perhaps you will remember: In the Committee, one of your colleagues has also tried to bring in a liberal official. The Minister said: I'm asking for understanding. Here it is determined and not speculated. – The Minister has therefore clearly disputed and disproved any connection between the data-affairs and politicians. It is also not true, as stated in paragraph 6 of the urgent request, that seven persons are identified for illegal transmission of ECIS data. [[Abg. Swimmling: No, in the meantime it's more than 80!]] That's just not true! There are 7 actively requested, and there are 150 passively requested. The Director of Soko in the Committee has clearly said that the results are completely worthless in themselves, not every request made by a prominent person or by a possible suspect means an irregularity. But you speak in your urgent request of illegal... [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Disputes You're not gonna do this now! Take your urgent inquiry to hand, then you will see that there is "illegal queries". [[Abg. Swimmling: Has it been!]] So at least that's what you need to admit. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Interesting is the home page of the Greens, since Mr Peter Pilz gives a background report on this data abuse affair in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, but immediately in a wash-up he makes it a top-level coward of the FPÖ: Notes on the free use of EKIS data. This is really enormous, Mr President, to link a background report with debt allocations, but they are not proven by anything. You can see where the car is supposed to go, where the opposition wants the liberals. I do not know what sources of information you, Mr Pilz, have tapped for your homepage, but there is nothing to do with official information, just as little as you, Mr Schwemmlein, and Mr Gusenbauer's. [[Abg. We're curious about Mr. Haider's!]] I've already quoted what Minister Strasser said. In the homepage of Mr Pilz there is an untruth to the other. In the same way, he also disputes that he is being found out. Deputy Pilz! The scrapped SPÖ community and you are the only ones who have truly provenly had data that were strictly secret. [[Abg. What about Mr. Haider?- Oh, my God!]] They took part in a press conference with documents from a disciplinary act. The Minister of the Interior has said that it is being examined how you came to these files. On the homepage is inside: No, it's all wrong. Something else is very interesting: Mr Pilz, who knows of course that it is not all right for him to be found with secret data, immediately starts a self-cleaning action on the homepage, and he says the following: If someone uses internal records from public administration for control, this is allowed. It is not allowed to be sharpened only. If someone uses files to sharpen political opponents, this is a case for the courts and for an investigation committee. But anyone who wants to document and stop the abuse of the internal power is obliged to do so as a Member of Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a fool!]] So please, Mr. Pilz will immediately present himself with the free letter. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Knife mushroom!]] Set this option She's ahead of politics in Austria. However, we will not participate in this, but we believe that right must remain right – and injustice must be wrong. I think this is what Mr Pilz does as a classic double morale. Mr Pilz, I now expect you to give an opinion on this so-called justification. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pretty disinterest in the SPÖ banks!]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially the opposition! I really wonder about the insensibility of some Members or all of you when it comes to media coverage. No one will be upset if, for example, "NEWS" publishes a secret national bank audit report, "NEWS" publishes a secret protocol of the Ministry of Finance, "NEWS" publishes a secret message report from Paris! I could continue this list of examples. I wonder, What do you say? Is that all right for you? – There was no one standing up and excited and saw where this information came from! Or: From the SPÖ, there was a top coward in 1991. The office of the head of state Sipötz has written to the office of the SPÖ General Secretariat in Oberpüllendorf and requested surveys of six persons with names, date of birth and address. Each candidate has a handwritten addition: Father ÖVP mayor, ÖVP core class, father SPÖ member and so on. So what's this now? Is the contemplation or is this the truth finding that is allowed? What is this, Mr Schwamlein, Mr Kostelka, Mr Gusenbauer? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: After what?]] Where were you, Mr. Kostelka? Answer me with regard to this intrusion affair in the Burgenland in 1991! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Tell me what date, what time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has clearly stated to Mr Strasser that it will determine what has been done there. Mr. Schwemlein has claimed that there is a scandal in every federal state. I can remind you again: For 50 years, socialist interior ministers have been holding the interior resort – up to eight months ago. These scandals, these intrusion monkeys were created long before the acquisition of the interior resort by Minister Strasser. [[Abg. Swimmlein: (showing on the liberals) Here the clients sit!]] If something comes up, you have to take your own nose!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11175	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11197	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A staff member made Stricherl and, in the debates by colleagues Gusenbauer and Schwemlein, filtered out a word as the leader: the word "scandal". More than 40 times Gusenbauer and Schwemlein have developed the theme and thus the "Scandal". It is a scandal how often you use the word "scandal" in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's it too! That's really a scandal!]] True is: Not a single proof, not a single fact, was put on the table by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Schwemlein. They act according to the motto: Yes, of course, what "NEWS" writes, we quote from it! What "profile" writes is important to us and is true of course! But the "FORMAT" must not stand there either. There are the "true facts" and the wisdoms that some read out of the coffee sauce. This is the melange from which the SPÖ wants to make a scandal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Someone whispered to me whether there was also secret information about the colleague Gusenbauer in the ECIS computer. I am, of course, unable to give a fair, honest, serious answer. Then I would have to stand inside – perhaps, that's a mere suspicion of me – that he has once flown to Moscow – colleague Schwarzenberger has already given me the season – that he has kissed the ground there and has called, among other things, "home". [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Kiss the floor!]] This may also be in the ECIS computer. – Pure assumptions, pure claims, colleague Gusenbauer! I don't know, I'm going to go to the hearsay like you did before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now I come to the facts: Interior Minister Strasser has the full support of the coalition in connection with the processing of this claimed scandal, as SPÖ and Greens want. What he has said today, the procedure he has chosen, the instruments he has installed, and above all the cooperation between the Special Commission and the Justice, whether prosecutor or U-director, find our full support. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to congratulate you on this procedure. It covers itself with our intentions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want a complete Enlightenment, if there are cases – only: we don't know about anyone! We want a clear and clear opinion from the courts – should there really be facts! We are interested in the fact that in this country the rule of law is breaking through and not having claims overhanging! You can write this to the main book! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is undoubtedly established that, of course, no person, rank or function is identified. I guess that's a matter of course. This guarantee is issued by Mr Strasser. With this guarantee, however, he also says to citizens in this country: Don't be afraid! And above all: Think differently to the executives than SPÖ and Greens do! And that's essential! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the ranks of the SPÖ is one of those who can now come to the pult and draw out of the full. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Of course! Mr Strasser said that all the transactions claimed were due to the years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999. That is where I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the SPÖ: Who, then, had political responsibility in the interior sector in these years? [[Call to the ÖVP and the liberals: Who was that? Maybe that was the one?]] Is there perhaps a parliamentarian who is now sitting among us, who has been Minister of the Interior during this period? [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman:Yes! - Where's the one?]] Your colleague! I would have expected – You could bring light into the dark – that you are going to speak here in this debate! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes!]] I would have expected you to be aware of your political responsibility at the time and now to say so honestly: Yes, there we have built crap; we, the "red brothers", have had the responsibility, and this has happened to us! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But no, one doesn't, of course he doesn't trust himself! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I conced the SPÖ, of course, "forgets." Nothing is easier than "forgetting" – and that after eight months in which one is no longer in the government! [[Abg. May. Worm: Who is the client? That's what it's all about!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You know: This pain of loss of power tends! So I'm conceding that SPÖ is "forgetting": She has "forgetted" that before Ernst Strasser was called the Minister of the Interior Karl Schlögl. It's a red one, isn't it? [[Abg. May. Worm: Who were the commissioners? That's of interest...!]] They also "forget" from SPÖ that the Minister of the Interior was called in front of Schlögl One. He's sitting there now! [[towards SPÖ banks]] And you have "forget" that the predecessor of Franz Löschnak has called! – These are only the three names of the ministers of the interior of this last decade, in whose political responsibility as the SPÖ Minister of the Interior becomes exactly what the SPÖ claims now. After good night, Social Democracy!, I can only say there. The "forgetality" is great all around. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] At the ball is now independent justice – and I welcome it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The cast farmer is gone again!]] Federal Minister! The procedure you have chosen in this context does not only support us. I am very glad that Federal Minister Strasser has spoken in this connection of the independent judicial system, which now – whether it be prosecutors or then judges for example – awards those orders under which the Special Commission determines. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the Gusenbauer?]] By the way, I just see and hear that Gusenbauer is gone again; as always. Probably he's already been champagne somewhere abroad, barely asking for his urgent request. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ: This is a "level"!]] Yes, I'm glad that the justice is now on the floor, for a simple reason: Because there's one in these rows – he'll probably talk to me right away – that'll cover me with a complaint. It is my colleague, Mr Pilz, who threatens me in connection with the last meeting of the Committee on the Interior and my statements on this meeting of the Committee on the Interior. Col. Pilz! I'm so afraid of this complaint. I'm not just looking forward to it, but I'm "anxious" about it. It's incredible what's going to be smellable! It's incredible, really! So I'm being sued by my colleague Pilz, and I'm "quattering" and "bibbering". Mr Pilz has said – we now have the protocol – that Kiss is going to the public from a meeting of the Committee on the Interior and claim something completely wrong for better knowledge! This is what Peter Pilz says at this meeting of the Committee on the Interior of the 11th century. In October, among other things, the clubman of the Freedom Party wanted to deny his right to participate in this meeting, that colleague Pilz, who, in my opinion, has a peculiar concept of democracy, that colleague Pilz, who, among other things, was allowed to hear at this meeting of the Committee on the Interior: [[Call out to the liberals: Look! Look!]] Of course, it could also be he who suffers from "forgetality", just as it is obviously acute in the SPÖ. [[Abg. May. Worm: You forget the client! And that's what it's all about!]] At this meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Mr Peter Pilz, Mr Westenthaler's question to the Minister of the Interior Dr. Ernst Strasser, I should have heard the following – before he went out to complain because I claimed to have claimed something false –: So Mr Westenthaler asked the Minister of the Interior Strasser the following, third question – I quote –: "There is an article in the daily ‘Kurier’, which is from 6th century onwards. October 2000, in which it is stated that fungus rode any attacks on Tuesday, and he has presented documents distributing a disciplinary knowledge concerning officials, but this material is considered to be strictly confidential." Reply from Federal Minister Dr. Ernst Strasser – Minutes of this meeting –: "On Question Three, Causa Pilz: Yes, it's being examined." [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] - Quote. So who is at the heart of investigations in the matter of "spitsels"? If it is black, it is blue – or is proven that there is one, namely the Green Peter Pilz and, as we already know, a SPÖ congregation from Schwechat, which – proveable! – abused data from the police computer, which – proven! [[Abg. Gaál: Also!]] – disuse of data from the Federal Police Directorate Vienna, from disciplinaryaracts, from secret documents to the public?- Oh, my God! So who are those who really have butter on their heads? – The answer is very simple: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The others!]] In the truest sense of the word, we would make the bock a gardener if we left this opposition to the row! The Austrian population knows exactly who they trust. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, the Steirers also knew!]] It will certainly not trust the SPÖ, which, in this alleged and alleged scandal, in fact wants to "delegate" its own responsibility, nor the greens who try to beat a scandal there, being led by a Peter Pilz almost at the nose ring. – But Van der Bellen does not even notice that he is presented by Peter Pilz as well. So it is the reds and the greens that claim a scandal – but they have caused it themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11571	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. [[Call the ÖVP:to the Rules of Procedure!]] Would you like to make a request? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: In the meantime, this has not been done since colleague Gusenbauer has now appeared here again in the hall!]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Pilz is the next speaker. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11617	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Kiss has sufficiently announced to me here, I only ask for understanding that I do not respond to his speech in the same detail. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I can imagine that!]] The issue today is an affair, in which there is certainly no parliamentarian Kiss, but a party who is a friend of him and whose leader. And that's what I want to do now. Federal Minister Strasser! A report is overdue. The National Council is entitled to a comprehensive report on how the state of the investigation is, as well as an answer to the questions: Is there any concrete suspicion of material justification? What is the further procedure? And how is it ensured that not only the misuse of the ECIS system by the Freedom Party, but also the abuse of other police instruments is investigated by this party and its officials? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We now know the structure, we know the heads, the so-called "Communication Office": with Jörg Haider, with Peter Westenthaler. However, we do not yet know the role of the third person in this "Communication Office" in the "Combo", namely that of Mrs Riess-Passer. This office has three responsible persons – and not two! - files. In the course of a parliamentary investigation, it may be that Ms. Riess-Passer did not have the slightest idea of all that happened around Jörg Haider and Peter Westenthaler. But we have to look at that first. – This is an important issue that needs to be clarified, because many things have to be explained in the context of government here and in this committee. Furthermore, we know a system of "leading officers", of those who were used by the "combo" and were responsible for the – we call it careful! – Data transfer has worked. Names like Rumpold represent exactly this role. And, moreover, there have obviously been "local commands", "local commands", which have made sure that AUF functionaries and friends from the executive have delivered all this at the push of a button, which was just needed in the headquarters of "Combo". [[Abg. Young: Did you learn this in the GDR?]] There are names like Kreissl, Binder and some others. These "local commands" obviously also existed outside of Vienna. We know that right now. We also know the purpose of this whole system: The goal was call murder, simple and simple preparation of professional reputation murder! This is the political style of a party that doesn't want to convince opponents, but wants to make them mouth dead. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: All of this you trust to say under the cover of political immunity!]] If you want to commit reputation murder, you have to find something, and then don't bother your own dirt on the stick. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President, is that the language style... in this House...?]] Even if you have kilowise dirt on your own: If you find a "flickerl" on the other side, you can try to look at the EKIS computer, the criminal police file index, where, in part, pointless ads are stored for decades. [[Abg. Young: How do you know?]] Although this is most of the criminalistically uninteresting, it is usually sufficient for the purpose of the call murder. Who are the victims? – We still know the least about the victims. We know, however, that a number of politicians have been stifled. We know that exactly half of the Green Club members were incarcerated, almost all of them are new Members. [[Abg. Young: How does fungus know?]] Obviously, there has been an acute need for information in recent months. In this context, we also know from individual artists, from public critics from science, but very little from the field of journalism. I asked five journalists today for their personal consent to name their names here. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: In what context?]] All five said: Yeah, they're empowering me to name her names here. About important journalists of this Republic – also outside Austrian broadcasting! – there have been ECIS surveys of the well-known kind. [[Abg. Young: In what context?]] So I'm calling the names now: Wolfgang Fellner, Herbert Hufnagl, Herbert Lackner, Hans Rauscher and Alfred Worm. [[Call to the liberals: Maybe they drove too fast!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Or did they park wrong?]] These five names of journalists stand for many other names. And not only the five concerned, but also we, as representatives of the Austrian National Council, would like to have an answer to the question: Why are these five too? Why exactly top representatives of Austrian journalism? Why especially journalists who have not signaled: "We are ready to write on the line of government" – that is, on the line of government that the Freedom Party is trying to enforce with complaints and intimidation in almost all media! [[Abg. Kiss: How do you get these names, colleague Pilz?]] These are all journalists who have always said no to threats to the liberals! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Where do you have these names?]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Pilz quoted from the "Stapo Committee"! Mr President, he is not entitled to do so.]] These are journalists who, when threatened, still wrote what they thought was right and important when press promotion was cut. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Pilz quoted from the "Stapo Committee"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The meetings of the Stapo Committee are confidential!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I expect an answer to what the motives were and what should be achieved with them! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If Mr Pilz tells things from this confidential committee, no one will say anything there!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to know another thing: Why is our suggestion and request not taken up, everyone concerned – I say it carefully! – of unexplained EKIS queries in all confidentiality to inform them personally and to tell them that there is a reasonable suspicion that data about them has been misused?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Pilz is talking publicly about secret meetings!]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Colleague, these names could not yet be mentioned in the Stapo Committee because they were not yet known. This comes from the last days; that was still completely unknown at that time. If you had opened your ears in the Stapo Committee, you'd know that. But if you don't want to hear, you have to hear it right here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But there is another victim – and this should not remain unmentioned, namely the Austrian executive. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Yes, Jörg Haider!]] These are not all people of the beating of a Lord Kreissl, of a Lord Binder or of many others. I feel the urgent desire from the executive – ask those officials who are currently taking care of our security outside this House! –: All of them want one thing, namely that it becomes quite clear that they do not even get close to or in touch with an illegal liberal trickle. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the Liberties: What about the Green Spittles?]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These officials want only one thing: that the abuses in the executive are finally ended! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You, Mr. Pilz, always go from yourself, from the green tickles...!]] These officials are very hard to bear, with their reputation for freedom of movement in the Ministry of the Interior. – This should therefore be done as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we will again explain why a committee of inquiry in this causa is necessary. A committee of inquiry on the freedom of expression would actually be the rather classic committee of inquiry, it is about abuse, abuse of personal data and abuse of the power of office. It is about political backmen, it is about illegal structures in the area of public administration, and it is also about the attempt to misuse political and administrative power, intimidating and killing criticism and opposition in our country. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is an enormous assumption!]] And this is just a classic case for an investigation committee! It is remarkable that in a situation in which almost the entire parliamentary assembly, together with some colleagues from the ÖVP, is hiding behind the proverbial "busch", one is fleeing forward, namely, her old partyman, who says: Before I go under with the liberal ship in Vienna, I will at least make a big attempt to escape and escape! Try it! Take the inspiration of your old partyman! Trust in an investigative committee! Mr Westenthaler, tell the public for the first time and under the obligation of witness! The chairman or the chairman will hopefully not fail to remind you of the consequences of a false statement. Mr Westenthaler, take this risk! This is not about complaints and back-complaints. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] You can't rely on the protection of a minister of justice or a law firm. Then you are in a committee of inquiry, where nothing else happens,...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12009	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12025	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. . So then, Mr Westenthaler, you are standing in a committee of inquiry, where nothing else happens, but that extremely necessary questions are asked by your colleagues of the National Council. You have nothing to hide, so follow the advice of your old-party Haider and form with us a majority for Enlightenment and the rule of law! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12058	Mr Kiss wishes to speak; I assume that we are dealing with business matters. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12079	Mr President. High house! In my capacity as chairman of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior, I would point out that Mr. Pilz, in his statement, has just violated the provisions of § 32d(4) GOG, which reads as follows: "The meetings of the subcommittees shall be confidential unless otherwise decided. The members of the Subcommittee shall be congregated by the President of the National Council to ensure confidentiality." And we also have to say: An infringement of this obligation is to be suspected as a breach of the official secret within the meaning of § 310 of the Criminal Code! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, even criminally relevant!]] I have pointed out this confidentiality and criminal law at all the meetings of this "State Police Committee", as we call it. Mr Pilz has quoted here in the name of plenary, which he obviously heard at this meeting of the "Stapo Committee".
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12130	Further word message: Mr Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12152	Mr President. High house! We have just become witnesses of an obvious breach of law here, when, from the National Council's mouth, a member of parliamentarian's office was apparently guilty of – contrary to his commitment to the secrecy of the contents of the "Stapo Committee"! – has announced secret content here. And it does not make it easier, but it is much worse that the same Member has today compared the Bureau of this National Council with the Milošević terrorist system. I consider both matters to be so dangerous that they do not need a boost, and I am therefore seeking the convocation of a stand-up presidial.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12185	For business treatment: Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12206	Mr President. To clarify this matter immediately, I'm looking for something quite simple – and I'm applying for it: The chairman of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior should inform the Bureau of the National Council, as it is possible under the Rules of Procedure, of the possibility of hearing these names from this Subcommittee meeting at all. The fact is: These names were not yet on the list of executives – and that is why this was technically impossible.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12251	Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the expression "Milošević-Methoden" is concerned, this has taken place under the chairmanship of Mr Prinzhorn. He has announced that he will deal with the next presidential meeting. – I remain in this decision of Mr Prinzhorn. I have no reason to get rid of it. As regards the allegation that confidential deliberations of the "Stapo Committee" have been unlawfully quoted, I take this very seriously, of course, but I can only say to the plenary what I said to Mr Kiss in the face of four eyes when I asked him out here: I am not a member of this subcommittee, and I have no information on what has been said in this committee, and the National Council's presidential meeting has no information on what has been said or not said in this committee. If a criminal conduct has been committed, I am in favour of formulating an advertisement today, and if it is desired, I will pass it on to the prosecutor's office. I am not an instance of what has been said or not said in a strictly confidential subcommittee. – That concludes the matter for me. [[Abg. Leikam: To the Rules of Procedure!]] - To this thing? Please, Mr Leikam.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12283	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I was also present with this committee, and I would like to make it clear that these five names mentioned here have never been the subject of the deliberations in the Stapo Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An application will be made!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12342	This was not a request. Deputies! If you give me a presentation of the matter, we'll do as we discussed. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kuntzl. Speech time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12372	Mr President. Minister! – The Minister is interested in others. In the context of this debate, I would like to stress that an interlocutory call, which, according to the remarks of Mr Pilz, which have obviously not been pleasant for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has shown once again that there is a need for us to discuss these causas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[A group of representatives of the liberals and the ÖVP is in the front line and discussed.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Federal Minister! The interest... – Mr President! [[Unrest in the hall.]] Capabilities Maybe you're taking care of a little more peace? I think that this standing session might take place somewhere else, because this is a bit adamant to a constructive debate here in the House. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you want me out of Parliament?]] – No, but I think that perhaps a little more peace and attention should be given from your side in this debate, which you are indeed concerned with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you want to turn me out of the hall? Where do you want me?]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I don't want to point you out of the hall, I just think that the place for such meetings is somewhere else in this House. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where do you want him?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: We want to hear our colleague Kuntzl and not you!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Please, stay here! I just meant that it could be a little quieter here in the hall.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12507	I call Mrs Kuntzl.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12522	To clarify any misunderstanding: Of course I do not want you out of this hall – quite the contrary! I want you to stay here and follow this debate carefully, because we all consider them so important – especially for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Decide!]] But now to the really interesting, namely the FPÖ-spitzel scandal and the report of the Minister of the Interior in this causa. Minister! The interest in your report has been very great from our point of view. We had high expectations. There is also great public interest, which also shows the presence of many visitors here. In your report, you referred to three levels on which consequences are to be drawn, three levels of importance in this context: first, criminal law, second, and third, the level of organisational measures. Federal Minister! I have missed in your report what the debate in this House is really about, namely that there is a very important political level in this scandal, which you have not actually referred to and which you have not given an opinion on, which I regret very much. The political dimension should be an essential part of your opinion. In connection with the misuse of access by officials to data of curiosity, you have spoken of training, you have spoken of boredom as reasons for this access. But you did not talk about what this debate was all about: that there was systematic access, because it was a question of arrogance and order work. It is about systematic, illegal access to systematic, illegal information – and this in connection with, on behalf of, and for the benefit of a political party. Ladies and gentlemen of the two government groups have so much to say, 'Scandal', but I ask you: What's the other thing than a scandal? Ladies and gentlemen! This is a political scandal that has washed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is an increasing impression that there is a party in this state, which is right for every means to achieve its goals – even if law-making standards are in the way of that. You have the opportunity to make this impression clear if you agree to the request for an investigation committee. A few days ago, Mr Westenthaler told us that all the suspicions have resolved in the air. - From "dissolved in air"! More becomes known day after day! Day after day, this peak net will be clarified more clearly. And more and more names of victims are becoming known. Mr Kiss! I should like to remind you that Mr One is one of the victims in this context. I can't imagine that he would have commissioned or supported his person from a political point of view. So more and more names of victims are becoming known, especially critics, journalists, as mentioned earlier, but also one or the other cross-country beginners in your own party. I am already very excited about the speech by Mr Ortlieb – who is also one of the victims – and about how he will explain how he actually felt when he came to believe that he has become a victim of a persuasion action. But we'll hear that soon. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That doesn't mean that this has been an illegal access!]] Every single name of these victims is a reason for a committee of inquiry. And they are getting more and more from day to day! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There are also more and more names known to perpetrators. It is about officials from the FPÖ environment, and it is about the rumor that this is based on a reward system – reward either by financial grant or by awarding mandates. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Rumor, you said!]] - I said rumor. Clarify it, please! Get in touch with the investigation committee! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is your policy! On the basis of rumors!]] More and more names of clients are becoming known: the former Federal Managing Director of the Freedom Party, the Press Secretary of the Alt-Parteiobmann, the bodyguard of the Alt-Parteiobmann. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's not a rumor, that's a newspaper post!]] Please clarify this in the Committee of Inquiry, we will discuss it! You can break it up in the air if it's not right. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everyone complained, just so you know!]] This is the political dimension we are discussing today, the political dimension of data abuse, and it must be clarified. Mr Westenthaler said to the Committee of Inquiry that this was basically something nice, because you could bring light into the dark if there were darkness. – Mr Westenthaler! How much more dark can it be? Isn't that enough? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They also meant that if, after the judicial investigations – which are now a matter of priority – there should be open questions, then the Committee of Inquiry should take place. – There is a suspicion that you have the hope that the judicial investigations may take a long time to allow as much time as possible to pass and that the matter may be forgotten again. But we can assure you: We don't let that get forgotten! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Your old partyman has recommended that you agree to the setting up of an investigation committee. I don't know if that was an "old-reflex" of him, or whether he actually assumed that your predicament was true and you had a white vest. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He's already over 50!]] You seem to have managed to convince him that an investigation committee is not useful. Maybe you could also give us the argument here that has enabled you to convince your old partyman. Maybe this is an argument that makes it clear that the West is not white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12695	Three members of the House asked me to have the raw protocol of Mr Pilz's speech presented. I asked the Stenographenburo to do this. It will only be a raw protocol, as always in such cases. I'll give it to you in four copies. [[Members of Parliament Dr. Lichtenberger and Ölllinger: but please also the speech of Mr Kiss!]] - No one's asked for me yet. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Then let's do this now!]] - One by one. Now let us come to this one in four times, and all the political groups will receive it at the same time. – Mr Kiss’s speech, too. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke on an actual correction. I would ask for an account of the facts to be corrected and of the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12741	High house! Mrs Kuntzl has claimed that this is a FPÖ scandal. – This claim is incorrect! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Dr. Kostelka and Edlinger.]] In fact, this is the suspicion of unlawful data transmission, at the time when the ministry was still run by socialist interior ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12795	The next speaker is Mr Jung. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12817	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Only one thing to my colleague Pilz, because much more is not worth his shakes according to the pattern of those in the letter bomb series, which have also gone into emptiness. He mentioned four names. Last year alone, there were 51 million requests – please, five names – that is, only this year if you take the average, each of these gentlemen can be asked five times. [[Abg. Olympians: Five names!]] So that's no evidence at all for anything. Perhaps these gentlemen – just as I have said today – have crossed a traffic light at Yellow and are therefore included in the directory. That has nothing to say yet! [[Abg. Oils: Yes! Yes! That's what it's going to be!]] But this is your fog policy, Mr. colleague – this time without gum – in which you keep trying. When Mr. Gusenbauer – who has left the hall in the best way he has ever been – made considerations about the direction he is going to make his speech today, he has probably used the motto of the fourth dwarf of snow whites: that is, behind, because he lacked the substance. I quote from his speech "cold showers", "recoverable", "destructors", "secret peak police", and so on. – But of substance, of names – who?, what?, when?, where? –, was nothing to hear. Ladies and gentlemen! If he had names, he would certainly not have missed it, he would have let it go on the tongue and made the accusations. But there is nothing specific there, that has shown itself all day long. It's being examined by the Ministry of the Interior, and then we'll see about it. But I have something else that might be worth an investigation. Mrs Huttonen has today been concerned about how FPÖ can obtain information. I will now show you how SPÖ-led ministries have obtained information, and quote from Michael Sika's book – he was still a security director of this Republic and is not so far away from your camp –: In 1994 there were many rumors. I was also granted the Stapo plan, a danger to construct Haider to have a pretext to send police officers as a protection to his surroundings. – What does that mean, a threat? – One wanted to agree to Dr. Haider that he would be at risk of being police officers to his surveillance – not to his safety, to his surveillance! – in his vicinity smuggles; and starting from a ministry, from a minister! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen! Listen!]] It didn't work then, but the red brigade in the ministry didn't fail. Later, in turn, under the guise of a threat situation, a stapo officer succeeded in bringing at least to the vicinity of the bodyguards. – Do you know what that means? You're afraid of a man, you're afraid of his family, you're making his surroundings... – Yes, you're averse, Mr. Colleague! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] She didn't hit it! They were not stifled by state institutions, by the Stapo on behalf of a socialist minister. You don't need to shake your head! There would be a need for an investigation, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But so that you can get a little angry too, I will continue with what Mr Magnifice said. Sika writes: Dr. Haider apparently acted very convincingly on him, with the success that the official should have been promptly reversed and became a sympathizer of the FPÖ. - Quote. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] I could continue this list of your contemplations endlessly: Carinthia 1989, Schatzmayer, Dossiers on the Danube power plant opponent; Vienna 1990, "Noricum" Committee; Burgenland 1990, promotion of the state councillor Christa Krammer, also from your association, Mr. Colleague. Sit down, there's more to hear! Burgenland 1991: Office Head of State Sipötz, District Secretariat Oberpulendorf. – You know it and you get excited. You have still had full access to the Ministry of the Interior! [[Abg. Swimmling: I don't have access!]] Vienna 1995, Marizzi-Affaire; Salzburg 1998, AK-FSG-Spitzelaffaire, and so on. I can read this page by page. [[Abg. You want me to bring you something? How many pages do you want from me?]] You sit here in the glass house, you have enough concrete information, and you're trying to get fogged. You're just afraid that all that you've accumulated in recent years and decades among socialist ministers of the interior. You're afraid of that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: Then you agree to the committee!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] At the end of the day, another sugar from your own request. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] After hearing, you say, Federal Minister Strasser has announced to the members of the Subcommittee the names of seven persons – those names that it is about here. – To hear. How did the non-member of the Subcommittee, Gusenbauer, know that? Which bird from the SPÖ union has apparently sung it and has also violated its committee obligations? This question is quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12963	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e12984	Mr President. Minister! High house! Whether this affair is "small-service" or whether it is the "mega-scandal" of the Republic, as Mr Gusenbauer has said, we cannot answer that today. Mr. Strasser acted perfectly correctly and on 11 November. In October, the Special Commission report was sent immediately to the Public Prosecutor's Office, even before he himself had insight so as not to be suspicious of any kind of intervention here. Today it is too early to call after the report, Mr Pilz, because now the justice is on the train. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In principle – and this is often forgotten today – the presumption of innocence. We must therefore speak of suspicions, not of perpetrators. The prosecutor is on the train, the Special Commission determines on behalf of the prosecutor. That is to say, it is in the jurisdiction of the area of justice and not in the interior. For the first time, criminal responsibility is examined. It is primarily about the suspicion of the unlawful disclosure of personal data, in which case the abuse of office or possibly the violation of official secrecy may be criminally relevant. There is also supposed to be the suspicion that money is included in the game, then it may also be about illicit gift acceptance. Data lifting, as other legal systems, for example, do not exist in the Austrian legal system. [[Abg. May. Worm: Fellowship!]] – That’s right, Mrs. Wurm! It may be that, in addition to the abuse of office or the violation of official secrecy or the illicit acceptance of a gift, the complicity is also called into question. At present, the Procuratorate is working out this with the assistance of the Special Commission and the Interior, but the preliminary proceedings are not public, and the House will respect this. It is therefore too early to call out loud after a report. Of course, Parliament must also question political responsibility. And, ladies and gentlemen, we are very interested in questioning political responsibility as well, and we are very interested in the fact that there is an unscrupulous investigation in this matter, because, of course, the political responsibility at that time, when these incidents happened, fell under the jurisdiction of the SPÖ. There were only "red" ministers of the interior at the time, so you don't need to suggest that we are not interested in a reconnaissance. It is also to be questioned whether the data protection at the time, under Minister One, under Minister Schlögl, has worked under Minister Löschnak, and it is also to be questioned whether the data surveys have not all happened legally. That is to be examined in individual cases, and therefore this unisono lamentary of my colleague Pilz is not justified that it was only about victims. We do not know whether these persons are actually victims, because there may well have been legal queries concerning all these persons. Therefore, it is not justified to speak now of victims and perpetrators. We are interested in the fact that this is being clarified, we are interested in improving data protection, and I am very pleased that Mr Strasser has already carried out today, as he has done specifically to this improvement – at last concretely! – contributed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13025	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13046	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr Kiss has started his speech with about the following words: I'm glad that justice is on the floor now. A few minutes later, he turned himself into a case for justice, namely, two, let's say, remarkable facts of action. [[Abg. Böhacker: Let's say it!]] He has slandered a colleague, Peter Pilz, in the protection of immunity. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! He's got...!]] It is not a lot of courage to express slanders in the protection of immunity, Mr Kiss. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We know that very well. We have known this practice on the part of the Freedom Party for many years – we opposition representatives, but also the representatives of the then governmental parties called ÖVP and SPÖ. There is little courage in slandering the Rules of Procedure. But, Mr President and Minister of the Interior, why he has become a case for justice, is the remarkable fact that the chairman of the Parliamentary "Stapo Committee" spoke here and said that Mr. Pilz had said something in his speech, which he did not like or had already liked – at least he has made the claim that Peter Pilz had said something in this room under Austrian law. [[Mr Fekter and Mr Puttinger, interlocutors.]] Mr President. I interpret the legal provisions relating to confidentiality in such a way that, if anyone claims something, and the chairman of a committee says that he could only have it out of the committee, that is the chairman of the Committee, because Peter Pilz has said everything possible here, but nothing he knows from the "Stapo Committee". [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that, in connection with the Chairman of the Staff Committee, justice is on the floor. You can see these two remarkable facts as a moral picture of the present conditions as a whole. There is a party, namely the ÖVP, which is hiding to say, by the mouth of her judge, that: We are very interested in the fact that everything is being clarified in connection with illegal data surveys in the interior area, because that was under the responsibility of SPÖ ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, of course!]] – You are therefore very interested in the fact that everything is being clarified, because it was – so to speak – another minister. It has nothing at all to do with the fact that the government party ÖVP has only one relationship to the rule of law and says that it is not the question of the political attitude and color of a head of department when it comes to this kind of legal goods! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I rejected the submission!]] When it comes to the urgent suspicion that data has been misused that illegal surveys have been carried out, it must, Madam President of the Committee on Justice, be completely irrelevant to the interest in informing the Minister who happened to be Head of Division there! – This is a moral image, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's why I can tell you: If there is in this House a party that has, as it were, a non-fractional relationship with the maintenance of the rule of law, these are, according to the understanding of the ÖVP, only the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: The carnival is already over!]] It is really far from for the Greens to have self-interests, namely the protection of ministers, or to make obnoxious considerations, because it happened under a "foreign" minister. – This to the understanding of the judge. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. President of the Justice Committee also said that it was questionable whether the names mentioned so far in the public – in the parliamentary, that is, in this room, but also outside – were just about victims. What does it imply with a remark like: Was it really only a victim, or was that not, as it were, quite legitimate, legal queries? – It implies – and this is the message sent by it – that there are names and personalities in which it is quite legitimate that there be EKIS queries about them. It is always a question of breach of administrative laws if you make ECIS inquiries legally. This, Mrs Fekter, is my comment on your overall legal understanding. But the whole thing is being pushed to the top. So far, I have heard from everyone from the FPÖ and the ÖVP Group that everyone is interested in information. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, of course!]] It means that now lies in the area of jurisdiction of justice and not in that of the interior, one wants to inform you that one is interested in education, but it is too early for reports. Ladies and gentlemen! If anyone in this area thinks seriously about the investigation of such serious suspicions – and these are not kinkerlitzchen, these are serious suspicions of people in a political context – then one can only follow the advice of simple party member Jörg Haider, namely to clarify the political responsibility and the political links in a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Let the prosecutor work once!]] But this should not happen at some point on the day of St. Nimfer, but now, because these questions are now being put to the public, and the public now has a right to get information. The public has a right to know that this Causa, this affair, this uncertainty, this – and in it I give you complete right – is always being explained in a grey zone, always close to the violation of the presumption of innocence. That is what does not justify a committee of inquiry at any time, but what justifys it now! That is why all these excuses and all of them, whether by the security spokesman of the ÖVP, whether by the justice spokesman of the ÖVP, whether by the Clubobmann or by the security spokesman of the Freedom Party, Makulatur and express only the following: We want this affair, this debate, and we want to clarify it in a system where there is no such suspicions, in a system in which one could have firm faith in the rule of law, and let the authorities work in peace. Ladies and gentlemen! I have strong confidence in the rule of law of Austria, but I have no confidence in a person, namely in the head of that department, to which the prosecutors and prosecutors of Austria are bound by instructions, namely Dr. Böhmdorfer. That's the cracking point on the whole thing. If I would allow Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer to give advice, then those in the party he "does not belong to", as well as in the friendly party ÖVP to intervene strongly for the fact that there is this investigative committee in order not to raise the suspicion of Austrian justice, that there may be influences – whatever – in this matter. [[Abg. Boy: Then he doesn't hear!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why the only conclusion can be: Investigation Committee here – here and now, and not at some point! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13240	The next speaker is Mr Ortlieb. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13261	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've got about 5:00 now. We are discussing human rights all day long. Apparently there are not many topics that you can bring in from the opposition. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] - Please? What's going on? - No, I'm already in the right speech, not a question. [[Abg. Elder: Incorrect item on the agenda!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right speech, but wrong item on the agenda!]] We started in the early days, and all this is all about this issue. The issue of ECIS – specifically the queries – has always been addressed. Some may ask questions – that has already been addressed by Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé – in which it is quite legal. Media use these means, and there is no discussion about it either. But it should be a scandal with us all at once, of a "mega scandal", a "special class scandal" was spoken. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: What? What?]] The urgent ones, the You brought in here, is built purely on rumors. She has no substance. I even read my name in the urgent. He's, by the way, miswritten, but that's not a problem. Mr Kostelka asked me how I feel when I am mentioned in this context. I'll give you an answer later. Mr Gusenbauer has already mentioned this in the last week, today Mrs Kuntzl once again. It is a great honor for me that so many explore themselves according to my existence. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Not after being!]] The question is: Have you scrutinized, or support You're just looking at these rumors? If you had been serious researching, then you should have somehow come up with this data. All that's in the room is very vague. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Very "vary"!]] But it's like this: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally – I want to make it very short – still addressed to Mr. Gusenbauer, Kostelka, Van der Bellen or anyone: The best pillow is just a calm conscience! – I can't say much more about that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And if you're still interested in how I feel, you'd be told: I feel very, very well in this club! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13389	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. The remaining speaking time of the green club is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13410	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is already remarkable how the lines of argument rotate and change. Above all, the liberals, but also some members of the ÖVP, refer to the former ministers of the Interior with regard to the political assignment of this peak scandal, saying: If there is a scandal, then it must have been a "red" scandal, for that was the party political assignment of the former Federal Ministers. Of course, it will also be possible to clarify whether there may have been a supervisory failure, whether there was evidence that there had already been illegal access to data. It is noteworthy, however, first of all, that the fact of illegal access is obviously not doubted by anyone – and it is very remarkable that this is apparently Austrian normality – and second, it surprises me, above all with the liberal group, for I can still remember it – yes, yes, that is! – that you have passionately argued in connection with the Causa Rosenstingl: [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. That's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's what!]] What can we do, what can the head of the party do if any of our ranks have a delicate behavior?- Oh, my God! So if, in the case of political responsibility, this is the top priority, I wonder today: What about the responsibility of a Mr Trattner, what about the responsibility of Dr. Haider for this scandal? – You turn and turn it as you need it and as you want it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You're wrong, I think!]] It's going to figure out where the trains are going and where they're going. Furthermore, I am surprised by the argument made by Mr Kiss, especially for him as chairman of a subcommittee. I have the minutes of proceedings of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of the Internal Affairs of the 11th century. Mr Kiss, with his allegations, is very well-readed October 2000, but I do not know what this Minutes says, because it says literally – I quote – that: "Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Ernst StrasserFirst: Not the Special Commission – at least it is not known to me – determines against Mr Pilz. It doesn't determine my knowledge against you at all." – This is addressed to the Member of the European Parliament Pilz. Mr Kiss, I do not know what You're telling this house. This is obviously a fog-throwing. [[Members Kiss and Ing. Westenthaler:Read page 12!]] – Mr President, on page 35 it is quite clear: at the request of Mr Pilz. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't even quote!]] I do not know whether the Federal Minister has told the Committee on Internal Affairs the truth. I can't believe this, I don't accept it from the Minister of the Interior. I would rather distrust your statement, Mr Westenthaler, and for that I have my reasons. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't even quote! Citation page 12!]] The fact that I am politically distrustful of you in this matter has nothing to do with secrets and mystery, but your statements relating to media are the reason for this. And this is very likely to have to do with the non-dulsion of illegal practices, because there you can show your brutal face – and then you can always turn up, even with more or less audible calls – as it is quite clear: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If I were to be abandoned as you would from the Van der Bellen, I would also be...!]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== Ing. Westenthaler) Why do you always make such interruptions?]] If you threaten the ORF, some editors and editors, because of their attitude, their attitude, that they will be 'existed' by law, then this is the third break of fundamental rights in Austria, which I have ever heard of from a member of this House! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I would like to go further, Minister of State. If not all of these reports by journalists who apparently do not get to the knees are freely invented, then for example, I and other colleagues of my club are among those who have been "spinned out". I also have a lot of material on what previous FPÖ club members have said in this House. All this has always gone in the direction: We will also use this knowledge that we have from police acts! There is a question of why such questions are raised in relation to Members of this House. The political opinions, attitudes are sufficiently documented, that is why it cannot be done. Therefore, it can only be a matter of highly personal facts and circumstances, for which all constitutional protection instruments apply. But if it is the case that this is being spyed out to harm politically, then it is one of the crimes in the criminal code threatened with severe punishment. The pressure on top organs – including national council members, but also ministers – is a crime that falls within the competence of a jury court and is threatened with very strict, up to ten-year imprisonment. I therefore call for this speaker's seat, Mr Federal Minister, to be my right as a citizen and a parliamentarian. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ex-Klubobfrau have you forgotten!]] I want to inform you about this in accordance with the mandatory law: Who looked into my act? Is there any suspicions why this happened? And what's in there?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13587	Please put to the end, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13603	You don't want to hear that. Then set up a committee, then we have more time! I am reimbursing this speaker's chair out of criminal charges for criminal acts against superior organs.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13636	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13657	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in this debate it was Mr Pilz, who, first of all, asked that those who felt asked themselves, also receive personal information on this matter. I have now dealt with this question to the Members of our House, and I can say from my point of view: I would be ready to do that immediately, because the house mind simply tells me that this is an understandable concern I would like to meet as a minister. That is why I say "successful" because any legal information that goes to me says that this is forbidden and that I cannot. According to the obligations and rights of information – so I am told, and so I will be informed – according to § 26 Data Protection Act 2000 all data must be provided – and I am going to say so – which are inside the ECIS, and also, on the basis of which legal basis, these data have been recorded. However, after the rapid examination, I am now told whether it is not allowed to give a person concerned the information if he was asked who had been asked and for which reason he would have been asked. . I deliberately say this in the conjunctive and ask you to perhaps have things checked in your area too. In any case, I would be prepared if I were legally authorized to do so. I wanted to bring that into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13699	The next speaker was Mr Reindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13720	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to deal here with the debate contribution made by Mr Pilz, who today spoke of the 'combo' – for information: "Combo" is the free communication office – executive officers and local commands have been used – with the aim of preparing the political reputation murder. Mr Pilz, ladies and gentlemen. "Leader Officers", "Commands" – you have used here a vocabulary that is likely to come from your political past, namely from your past with the revolutionary Marxists. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mister Pilz probably only hung a green coat, but in the heart he was probably still a revolutionary Marxist. [[Abg. Kiss: A Communist!]] I was able to understand some way that the Social Democrats had taken a book before the country elections in Styria to suit us with unsustainable accusations in the public. [[Abg. Swimmling: What book?]] However, the results of the election in Styria, Mr. Schwamlein, have shown the Social Democrats that such methods are of no use and that the people have long seen through their game. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: But you didn't just help it!]] High house! If the Social Democrats and the Greens want to attach a top-level to us, the two political groups should not have read page 112 of the book already quoted very often, or at least one paragraph. I have not found this paragraph in your urgent inquiry either. In this paragraph, I quote: The creation of networks has been understood by politicians of all couleurs and hierarchy levels in recent years and has operated in our executives. Some with more, some with less success. - Quote. I have missed this paragraph in Mr Gusenbauer's urgent question. [[Abg. Schwemlein: And Westenthaler was successful?]] - Yes, I do. In principle, ladies and gentlemen: Until a person is legally sentenced by a court, the presumption of innocence is valid. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes!]] And this also applies to the two opposition parties in this House, which has also been valid for them. Investigations are also in another case – it has already been quoted from the daily newspaper "Kurier" – in which Mr. Pilz is the subject of investigations. There is also a police officer who was suspended in Schwechat from the service and who was there also councillor. And what group did he hear? – The Socialists' Group! Thus, it can only be concluded from today's debate that the Social Democrats and the Greens are only trying to attach something to the liberals in order to distract them from their own problems. [[Abg. Oillinger: From your speech you can only draw a close!]] We liberals are always behind the security executives, will do so in the future, and we will not allow an entire profession to be discredited!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13836	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e13857	Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! For a party that just lost half of its votes a few days ago, you're relatively ticky on the road today, I have to tell you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one will be sitting with you soon!]] You should really think strongly about your policy, which you have done so far, and consider it very strongly! If the "simple member of the party" says that it is in this Causa that one should convene an investigation committee, here in the house decide to set up, then he will probably have meant: There's something smellin'! So you should actually do that from your side. Or is it indifferent to you if you keep going that way? More and more, as Harald Ofner said at the time, and a number of the others are plummeting down here until only half of the Members are sitting here today. – Enjoy sitting here, Mr. Patrick Ortlieb, enjoy it! For a long time, you will not be able to do so if this policy that you are doing here continues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why should the citizen also choose the liberals? As we have heard today, he is snacked out and threatened, he is observed – from the network system of FPÖ that we are discovering today – and abroad we are not particularly good at it through your government participation. Why should you be chosen? To you, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, I am coming because you are no longer Klubobmann, you just don't know! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They were Central Secretary!]] If Jörg Haider says that your relationship to small service was too close, and one should convene an investigation committee, then that's actually the blue- silk line he actually sends you there. You should know that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That would fit you!]] Your laughter is becoming more rigid and rigid. I see that exactly. That is the attitude you will have in the end after the investigation committee has done its work, if you finally agree that it can actually do so. And there's another third point, and I don't understand why you don't work it out: There are countless quotations that show that Haider has formally protested with the fact that he comes to this information. He said that again and again! He even criticized the security device in this way. He said: I can't defend myself, one act shoots the other, I've already got a blue spot, because there's an act back. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Who was there Minister of the Interior?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Schlögl did not examine this!]] Mr Gaugg! Please take care of the savings packages that you do not impose before you give the national speakers out of the ranks of the liberals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I like it! The rumpold knew exactly, the Petritz knew exactly, and the binder knew exactly. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: And the minister didn't know?]] - Why you defend the FPÖ, then I'll come to it. – You have all the rooms in the secretariat of the FPÖ, only the Westenthaler did not know, and the Haider may have known. How did you communicate there? Don't tell us! It's all just a Larifari, they're just smoke bombs you're throwing. In reality, there is this network, and in reality one must finally create information here! Voices Finally, to this committee of inquiry so that it can finally regain its cleanliness! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The It's a good fit for your entire policy. Mrs Petrovic has said this before, and we should stress this over and over again: If nothing else comes to your mind and you have too weak arguments to make the policy of government tasty to journalists, you are threatening a law. They threaten the political editors – or the "politic editors", as you say, or the left or left-wing extremists – because they do not take away from you the government propaganda, to pursue you by law and to get on track. That corresponds exactly to your mind! In the ORF Curatorium you have betrayed yourself, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, when you said: The "Panorama" editorial must be carefully examined once. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say that!]] 600 pages are there on my square! These are the two studies on the work of a single editor in the ORF, Ö1. - Good! But You then said in the board of trustees: No, you have to monitor, watch all the editors of the ORF. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say that! Wrong again!]] You already betrayed yourself. This is your favorite job: sniffing, sniffing, sniffing. You like that best. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And whoever is not fit, he has to feel it. What did the quote in the newspaper say after the ORF fought for free journalism for the free activity of its journalists? It was called: Then the wise man should lubricate the 600 million schilling into his hair! – That’s your reaction – an inconceivable kind of policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the nice thing is: The chooser has recognized this. And the beautiful thing is: There's been a huge deal in Styria because of the savings packages and because of your kind of politics. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And what about you?]] You lost half of the voters! You can still laugh? What will it be like once you have lost all the voters? It's inconceivable what you're doing! What's so funny? [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! He's just laughing at your seats, which you won't have any more soon. He's just trying to figure out that you're not going to be a Member any more soon. I just want to draw your attention to this. As your new hymn, you should choose the song from the Hildegard Knef – you will unfortunately have to pay tantimes –: "From now on it's downhill." We will then sing this on your election results for every election that comes in the future. That's what I'm prophesying to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14078	The next speaker is Mr Westenthal. Time left: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14099	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It's all really very amusing. The Dringlich breaks down into humour and tried humor. But it's really very fun when Mr Josef Cap comes here, who has been directed by his boss Vranckky over the radio, that he's no longer Central Secretary. [[Abg. May. Worm: That will still flower you!]] This is interesting: Just you're talking about silk cords and had to know from the radio yourself that the great chairman says: We don't need the cap anymore, he's so unsuccessful. As a representative of a party that has entered the largest electoral settlement in Styria since 1945, you are talking about electoral defeats! You should be generous if you go to this level, Mr Cap! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But we have all experienced them today – it was a real demaskation – all the "hobby-haiderologists" that exist in the SPÖ: the cap, the cast farmer, the Kostelka is a very special one, and also the Mr. Posch. But it is very special for Mr Cap, every time! He's a real "hobby-haiderologist." I really believe one thing: The cap rises in the early morning, goes into the bathroom and has the hairer photo hanging at the bathroom mirror and even when cleaning teeth he thinks: "Today I'm showing it to you again!" because he can't say anything about brushing teeth because he has the toothbrush in his mouth. He can only think: "Today I'll show you again, Haider! Today I'll give it back to you!" Mr Cap, embittered Error has never led to success. I'm telling you that quite openly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You should write this as one of the most famous "hobby-haiderologists" of this house behind your ears. Here you raise allegations and call names of persons who are subject to the presumption of innocence in the rule of law and who all three - they have brought the names - have filed complaints. How you define your relationship with the rule of law remains yours. I have a commitment to the rule of law, and as long as the guilt of the person is not proved, the presumption of innocence applies. You should also recognize this with those you always quote here and call by name. [[Abg. May. Worm: You're not man enough to step back!]] But it's always the same pattern: You're going out here, you're gonna get a dome of mud out of here, and then you're leaving. But if it's about evidence when you're asked to put evidence on the table, then suddenly you'll be silent. It is the same as with Mr Kostelka. This one month ago he claimed all the serious – and this is an immeasurable one! – that in the Ministry of Justice there are certain key words that call subscribers turn on and that calls are heard illegally in the Ministry of Justice. – He could not put a Jota of evidence on the table so far, not a Jota! And he wasn't man enough to apologize for this blamage at the Minister of Justice. That would have been what you should have done a long time ago. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also your address, Mr Cap. And to the beautiful interventions in the ORF: Mr Cap pleaded because of alleged interventions in the ORF, which were by the way already referred to by the general intern himself as "business as usual" when he said: All parties want their right in the ORF – yours too! But Mr Cap is upset about intervention. I quote from a book, namely the book by Edith Meinhart and Ulla Schmid on the "Spin Doctors", which unfortunately have also been reduced to their wretched size – in contrast to earlier ones – the Spin Doctors Rudas and all who have been there. This book says literally – this is interesting, as you are talking about interventions here; I quote: ORF editors were always participants of each strategy meeting of the Reds in the 1999 super-election year. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Na Hallo – Absorbents are coming up here!]] – I repeat: ORF editors Participants of every strategy session of the Reds! And it goes on to say: Questions like: Was that done with top, in parentheses: with the Küniglberg, clear? Have we already cleared this up?, belonged to the standard repertoire of former ORF Secretary General Andreas Rudas. - Quote. They have brought editors of the ORF to party meetings to dictate what is to be reported to them, and we reject that. We do not have that, but we are among those who ensure that the editors in this country are free to express their views. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: Do you actually believe what you say?]] And then Mrs. Kuntzl comes out here and says, "All terrible!" just because we say that we should have the courts first and only then investigate committees. Five research committee proposals have been submitted over the last three years. The commission affair: The SPÖ Parliamentary Club has unanimously decided that the examination by the judiciary should take place first, only then will we make an investigation committee. – Kurd murder: Costelka: The outcome of the investigations of independent judges is to be expected, and we will talk about the committee of inquiry. – Third example, Banking Committee: First of all, we should consider the courts, then we are talking about a committee of inquiry. – Fourth example, Lassing: Similarly, Kostelka does not think that the investigation committee on Lassing, as requested by the opposition, is a target. It's supposed to be the first to find out the courts. – Fifth example, study committee Causa Omofuma: The same thing, first we should let the courts work, then we talk about a committee of inquiry. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! So easy you have rarely been to transfer to double-tension.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14211	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Time left: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14238	No, but you should put in here the resolution of the Editor's Council, the point by point of this intervention culture of yours – but because you just laugh, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, also recorded by you – the famous "professional monitoring" as you called your interventions. I would like to point out that you are planning to do new staff policies in a broadcasting law by combining the two intentions, because they simply do not face you. I would also like to point out that you are planning a right of access for the general intern and, at the same time, to be able to select it easily so that it is the first address of intervention. I would also like to point out that you have invented the method of speaking before the broadcasts, calling on the editorial staff and talking about the management of the evening information programmes, probably with the addition: Do you have a family, Mr. Editor? Don't be unhappy! Do what I suggest! – This is the policy you are making in the ORF. [[Lively contradiction with the liberals.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's incredible! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Harmful!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not a plane!]] I also claim that this is not only the case with ORF, but also in the field of print media, where you call the owners and editors. Let me tell you again: Try to make a different policy! Look at that you have more coherent arguments! Try to convince the journalists and not to put pressure on them! Don't try to intimidate her and make psychoterrorism! – This is your climate of illegality, for which you stand here in Austria, and the destruction of democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Leave the baseball bat in the bag!]] The reason why you have been concerned about the information today is – and it has already been said to you – that you have not taken a position in order not to have a political debate with the political opponent, but to destroy it by means of a reputational murder. There's a lot of names. They are responsible for the entry into Austrian domestic policy of this reputation culture. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! "Pesticide Policy" – that's immense!]] [[Abg. What about Mr. Doralt?]] That's what you stand for, and that's what you have to answer. We also condemn this if you pursue this policy here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Just so on!]] The last one. I don't understand why you defend them. [[Abg. Sweamlein: He has to do the father's role!]] I just don't understand, just in this causa. I assume that the Minister of the Interior is interested in clarifying here, but I do not understand why you are already defending prophylactically and in advance here, although you have never put the Minister of the Interior, although you are saying here that you have never had anything to do with the matter, with this being done on your hair. For example, Mr One was the subject and victims of these intrusions. But why you're defending here, I just don't understand. You have to explain that to me. I just don't understand. Or are you already so on the ground that you even now need the defense of the coalition partner, which in itself is a new character trait to him? – I can only say that from an experience that we have done. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When cleaning teeth, you have the shark image at the bathroom mirror!]] Last point: I don't know when you're thinking about Haider. Maybe it's not directly in the bathroom, maybe you just missed the place. I don't know.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14417	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14438	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the ORF-executions of Mr Cap, I quote from a letter from the ORF-Generate General of the 10th century. October: "In summary, therefore, I hold: There is no evidence, as always, of the fact that the large-scale alleged data clause has actually occurred." [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: At the cap in the brain: not the data clau, but the memory clau!]] "In the future, however, all these assumptions will be checked in individual cases, and we will continue to work on the perfection of our security systems." And on the second subject, on the alleged wave of intervention, it goes on to say: "In detail, I have pointed out to the editors that flat-rate accusations, as contained in the resolution, are, in my view, as counter-productive as flat-rate accusations, which are always raised against the ORF. In particular, I do not believe that any criticism of transmissions of information should be equated with intervention." - I don't think it's adding anything. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the whole discussion very closely today. It's clear to me today: Whether or not a peak net exists in Austria is a suspicion, and the presumption of innocence applies. If a peak net exists if the courts find that, then that is a question that is of criminal interest. I am not interested in the political responsibility for this peak net today. [[Abg. May. Worm: Investigation Committee!]] No, because I don't care if Löschnak was responsible for it. I don't care if One of them was responsible. I don't care if Schlögl was responsible. I would like to know: Is it sharpened? Who's sharpened? What is the criminal responsibility for this? In order to investigate this, the courts are better suited than a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My colleague, Peter Westenthal, quoted the Kostelka-Khol-Doktrin, who had been developing Kostelka and I for five years. I still stand by it and therefore do not follow the perhaps politically understandable view of the head of state of Carinthia. When it comes to criminal responsibility, first the courts, first the justice. After what Mr Pilz has said today, I must say: Once again, I have been confirmed that I can give more confidence to justice, judges and prosecutors than to a Mr Pilz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So the process is always the same, and we should not be presented with the Euroteam and the committee of inquiry in this regard, because we have done just as well. When it came to the political responsibility of Euroteam, we did not set up an investigation committee, but there was a decision by the House for an audit of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has provided a report. This report has stated that there has been an inadequacy of grossest nature in Euroteam. That is why we have set up a committee of inquiry to determine whether such shortcomings have occurred in other areas, namely the granting of subsidies by the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is clear, therefore, that the same procedure has been taken, and we remain with it. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The blue-black "logic"!]] First: Everything's supposed to be cleared up. I am grateful to the Federal Minister for the Interior for saying very clearly: It is explained without respect to the person and the status. Secondly, I think it's good that the courts now determine with everything available to them. So far, there's no even accused person. The only one where suspicion is concrete that he has broken the law is the one who has ridden this whole affair. He said to himself: Peccavi! I'm accusing myself of breaking the law. – Otherwise, there is no accused yet. If the judicial procedures are brought out, there are political responsibilities to question, then Mr Lösnak, Mr Eins and Mr Schlögl can be certain, we will give them the opportunity to answer before the committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14548	Mr Kostelka spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please make a comparison with the actual facts to be corrected. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14572	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Khol! You stated that there was a Court of Auditors report on the question of Euroteam Vienna. - I'll correct you. There is no Court of Auditors report. [[Calls:Raw Report]] The raw report has been presented to you, and in this context any evidence is still open. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Committee protocol!]] But the parallelity in this context is obvious. On the one hand, the courts are in the process of clarifying this case. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not correct, that's a word report!]] There is no argument, however, that you did not use the Committee of Inquiry, on the other hand very well...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14628	Mr Kostelka!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14643	... do not assume political responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14695	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No applications have been submitted. Therefore, there are no votes either. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14720	We are entering into a short debate. The short debate concerns the request made by Mrs Moser, the Transport Committee for reporting on a federal law amending the Telecommunications Act, which is Amendment 55/A, a deadline until 21. ==References== After this short debate, the deadline request will be put to the vote. Mrs. Moser spoke on the introduction. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. The remaining speaking times are then 5 minutes each. Please, Mrs. Dr. Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14752	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that almost on the very day a year ago, Mr President, four Members of Parliament, three scientists and also some members of a total of 400 Austrian-wide citizens' initiatives with a great common concern were to be informed, with the common concern that residents and neighbours of mobile transmission mast systems should have rights, and with the other major concerns that, in general, health protection values should finally be established in the field of health. This was a common concern of the Party of SPÖ – of which I signed three Members – of the Party of the FPÖ – have said and signed 40 Members, including many who are now sitting here – and also of the Greens: all the Members have signed with us. And behind these signatures there are at least 5 000 signatures of a broad Austrian citizens' initiative movement, which has two main concerns: a democratic-political concern – keyword: Information, neighbouring rights – and health concerns. In the meantime, a year has passed, and now this mobile petition is on its way to the Transport Committee. Following the introduction of the mobile petition in December, I have already introduced a novel of the Telecommunications Act in this area. This request received a first reading, and this request probably also experienced a "first drawer" because it has not been put on the agenda until today, until today not discussed and has not yet been observed. Why is this so important today? Why do we want a deadline until the 21st century? November? - Because on the 2nd day of the year. November, in almost three weeks, a new technology leap takes place in Austria on the occasion of the auction of UMTS frequencies. This auction and this technology leap will bring two more problems. A total of between 20 000 and 30 000 new transmission masts must be built. That is, there are again a lot of neighbouring movements, very many neighbouring protests and a lot of concern in the population. And this technology leap also means that, in total, the legal and health issues should again be discussed in a massive way, because we do not want more or less Austria to continue to serve the population as experimental rabbits. I know there was an expert hearing in Parliament last June. There was a previous expert conference in Salzburg, and a large international scientific forum was involved, and there was already an international expert conference in Vienna a year earlier. And the common denominator of all these scientific and political hearings was: better information requirements, prevention and health protection limits. All of this has not been discussed by this Parliament in the Committee, nor has it submitted a decision here in plenary session. And now we are starting with a new technology with completely new framework conditions and do not yet have the appropriate legal conditions. Yes, even operators complain that there is legal uncertainty. And you dare make a technological leap! UMTS is a billion-dollar issue, both in terms of turnover, as well as what the participants arrive at. And you dare that jump without legal certainty. That is the point for me, and that is the background to this deadline. I know there's a novel to the Telecommunications Act, a government template, but it's not going to be discussed. There are review procedures that last and last, but what does not take is auctioning. ==References====External links== Starting November, and then starting from today on a new mast-wildwest again across Austria. That makes me the third essential point. In addition to the legal-democracy point of the issue and information obligations, and in addition to the health policy, I now come to the point that we are likely to take a very, very serious risk through this auction. I come to the point that the awarding mode, the awarding mode was not carefully accompanied enough politically. How does that look in detail? – There are six packages. Each of these six packages enables a comprehensive supply of UMTS information throughout Austria. And there are exactly six applicants. As this becomes a six-to-six game or a one-to-one game, it is on the one hand budgetary policy to put a large question mark behind the estimated billions, and on the other hand, something else essential: This awarding mode has fully insisted that every operator who increases frequencies here also undertakes to set up a network across Austria, although one for all six would be quite sufficient. And this is a network for all six would be much cheaper, economic and business. You just need to remember what the Wifo expert said. In June, Mr Knoll pointed out that it was essential for the state to take advantage of the legislation in the first place, that there is a common network of operators as regards the mast systems, and that the six applicants should operate with their services and services on the common network, so that overall not too many billion, which ultimately fall to the minds of consumers, do not go into the development of the network. So there are two major problems in terms of financial policy, economics and business. One is the fact that the race now begins at the auction, with the race likely to stop again on the first day, because everyone will go home satisfied with the minimal bid and with a doubling area he gets. They said – how much will it be? – 2 billion won't hurt long. The Minister of Finance then stopped, so to speak, the black Peter. He doesn't take much. What remains on the track is also Austrian technology policy, because UMTS auctions should also feed on the Technology Fund. And what remains on the track is certainly also that, in the light of a new technology, one now creates the same framework conditions for all applicants, offers a common network and offers a common network that not only limits itself to the centres, but also includes the peripheries. Indeed, the award procedures say that 50 percent of the population must be provided within four years. Who will tell you that the 50 percent of the population is not just in the centres? Who is telling you that the southern Burgenland, the forest district, the Mühlviertel, or perhaps some side valleys in Tyrol are also provided by this new modern technology, which really allows internet access from the open field and also provides some new employment aspects? We are for the following: First of all, we need to check the health aspect – keyword: Mobile petition – to create the second clear information regime and rights of the arrants and neighbors and to find a third-party auction mode that does not correspond to a Husch-Puff procedure and in this sense no more or less means a mowed meadow for the candidates. Fourthly, we want to see a single UMTS network in place, so that not nationally, economically and economically, will be thrown away to the 60 billion, which will ultimately have to be paid again by the consumers over the fees of UMTS. Against this background, I'm looking for you today, here and now, until 21. In November my request to negotiate and to consider the terms of the award. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14855	We are now entering the debate. Each group has the right to submit an opinion. Speech time: 5 minutes each. Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14880	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal by the Greens, which is being debated here, or the desire for a deadline, is something that the Social Democrats can gain, especially because this issue is a very important issue for us too. It concerns the health of people, and it is above all also a template which is related to the economic development of new technologies in that country. Mr Moser has already mentioned that even the operators of current GSM networks, but also any future UMTS network operators, want clarity about the conditions under which they can expand or build their network. Ladies and gentlemen! One must already be aware that, if the legal certainty in this matter is not given in good time before the auction begins, there will be lower proceeds. And then you have the responsibility to ensure that the Minister of Finance does not take a lot of money in the same way! Today I have listened to him at the budget speech, and in the manuscript of the budget speech it is also written that one wants to use the big proceeds from this UMTS frequency sale for the debt coverage. If you do not put forth any effort if you do not create the conditions decently, you will not take anything in this area. But being "rupped" Then you will see the citizens, as you have announced. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that we should deal very quickly with this issue and talk very quickly about how to establish a federal uniform limit. It makes no sense for each federal state to make its own developments and set its own limits. This is totally uncertain to the economy in terms of emissions values, and, of course, only a different protection of the population would be ensured. That is why we have to put both things in one place: on the one hand, the protection of the population, and on the other hand, we also need to ensure that the Telekom network operators, if they already pay billions for frequencies, also have the opportunity to expand the networks accordingly. However, I can imagine – and we will support this in a massive way – that it is still decided before the UMTS auction – that this set of deadlines makes sense – to require a co-ordination of the transmission mast development in order to ensure, for example, in cooperation with the spatial planning departments of the countries, that this wild growth, which has been spoken of, is a little restricted so that we can finally achieve a reasonable network expansion. Ladies and gentlemen! The petition lies de facto in the Transport Committee, i.e. it is on its way. In the Transport Committee is also the request of the Greens. We are all waiting for the Government's proposal to amend the Telecommunications Act, which has already been announced five times, but is not yet available. It is certainly not a problem to eliminate legal uncertainty for telecom operators very quickly, so that a lot of money actually comes in for the state when a scarce resource such as UMTS frequencies is auctioned. This is of great economic importance. It can't be that you're negligent in this relationship and that politics is limited to the fact that the people have more or less to pay for it by even more tax burdens, even more burdens. It's a policy that can't be. We will therefore agree to this request for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14928	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e14949	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser! I am also concerned about some of the points of the mobile petition; but I do not think I am alone with it when I say that individual demands of this mobile petition are curtailed. You know that there have been a number of parliamentary debates on this issue, including the holding of a survey in Parliament a few months ago, which was very informative and very important. In the past, paroles were issued, the electrosmog or the electrowaves, all that comes from the base stations is extremely dangerous to health. There was nothing to notice in the survey. This was clearly disproved by the scientists who had been represented in many ways. We have therefore said that we will continue this process of internal assessment in Parliament. You submitted your application. Its treatment was delayed by agreement – or at least by a large majority. We agreed and agreed that we want to wait for the novelle, the novel that the Federal Ministry of Infrastructure will provide to us, for which not only you are waiting – I too am waiting. But the thing is complicated and complex. This is not simply such a "law cell", but very many cross-sectional features are to be taken into account. However, I wonder what you want to achieve with today's deadline proposal. I have the impression that you want to pursue uncertainty policy, because you say the proceeds will be lower, and before you go out with it, you actually have to tie the corset a little bit tighter. Mrs Moser! That's not going to happen. The invitation to tender for UMTS licences is in progress, the Federal Ministry's regulation has been adopted and the design of the tender has already been adopted. It's all in preparation. ==References====External links== Let's go on November. I will not allow you to insure the bidders even now and say: Wait! You'd have to pull the emergency line. It would be very easy for your intentions if it was called, some bidder withdraws his offer – because the Greens, perhaps also with the help of the SPÖ, organize a great whirlwind – and the Minister of Finance goes out half empty. Mrs Moser! We will not do this favor to you. I would like to make that very clear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That does not mean, however, that we would not take the important points of this petition seriously. We will deal with this, and there will also be a regulation on limit values – but a regulation that will, of course, be far too far-reaching to you, because you have only one objective: They want to reach the Salzburg limit value of 1 milliwatts per square meter throughout Austria. To this end, all international experts will tell you: Then we can stop the cell phone operation. If you still argue economically here that this would also be for the protection of operators, I must tell you: So you're talking economically about a boot! Yes, I do! That's why you're talking about a boot. You have no idea! In the same way, you talk about an economic boot when you say that the network can be shared by six UMTS operators. I would really ask you, you were there at the presentation: Talk to experts! They'll tell you that's not possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Of course, we need to look at it and try to ensure that there is no further large scale "mast explosion". That's our goal, too. There will be new base stations on the one hand with the introduction of the UMTS, but on the other hand – I will use it – there will be a reduction of old and no longer needed plants. We have to live with that, please. We liberals want technological progress. We want Austria to come to the top. We want an active technology policy and not a policy of prevention!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15022	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15056	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we have to take seriously the protection of public health. Of course, we know that there are fears – legitimate, unauthorized, rational, irrational, especially in the field of electromagnetic radiation. Nevertheless, I believe that we must not do one thing in this matter, and I suspect you quite openly: We must not be afraid, and we must not try to keep on doing policy with these fears, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] We should not build up and shake up emotions, but we must proceed here on the basis of rational knowledge and scientific knowledge. I am particularly disappointed by Mr Parnigoni. I mean, it's really embarrassing to have said exactly the opposite of what he said now, here and today, just because his party is no longer the Minister of Transport, ladies and gentlemen. He himself said – I quote –: It should be noted that the WHO's limit values appear sufficient. If one were to implement the required limit values, namely the limits of the greens in the use of mobile phones, namely the demand that the greens have made in their request, that would mean that one would have to keep the phone around ten meters away from the body when calling. It's not going to happen. - Quote. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] That's what he's perfectly right about. Today, however, he says at once that it is urgently necessary to discuss it, because the limit values no longer comply with modern findings. – Nothing has changed at all this half year. On the contrary! A scientific survey has also been held at the request of the National Council, confirming the limits of the World Health Organisation and the relevant EU directives, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we also believe that what you have said is of no relevance, Mrs Moser. The legal basis for the UMTS auction is absolutely clear. There is no uncertainty, there is nothing unclear, but it has been completely clear and uniformly laid down. The Authority has even held an event on this UMTS auction – you were invited to do so – which goes according to international guidelines on the stage, and you will see that will be a success, as in other countries. This will be a big, technological leap forward in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It would be the first time that the Greens are particularly concerned about the proceeds or the economics of any company or even about the fact that the Minister of Finance could take too little money. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We are always for sustainability...!]] – Mrs Colleague! Take care of the things you understand and which are also politically really a concern to you. In this question – you have already proved this the last time – you are unfortunately not up to date in science, on this topic you do not really know what you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15120	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – The vote will take place thereafter.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15141	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can only be surprised at the speeches made by the representatives of the government parties, because somehow it does not seem to have spoken about what is a deadline request. It is not less, but it is no more than the setting of a deadline. It is not about the existence of new or not new findings, Mr Kukacka, that is not the question of whether this would be economically difficult or easy to bear, but the question of whether a concern raised by citizens to this House should be raised until the 21st century. It's supposed to be done on November or not. You can then represent your opinion in the Committee, but I really want one here, because it is important for me to reject it in every way. The colleague, Mr Moser or the Greens in general, or in particular, to put women in a speech, they do not understand the matter, that is not the matter. These are sexist arguments, and I reject them! You can save yourself, Mr Kukacka! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You may think otherwise, you can also be against the setting of deadlines, as you are at all in favour of tossing a lot, but to assume that an opinion that is not yours, based on incompetence, is based on ignorance, that does not matter! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] This is also not tolerable for this House, and in particular not for women. Remember this! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] One more thing: I have heard so many different opinions – including from Members of the same Party – on the subject of your party that I think that if there is some uncertainty here, it is the long hesitation of politics, because there have actually been very different scientific findings. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's not true!]] - Yes, that's very true. There are no long-term studies, Mr Kukacka. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: For 20 years!]] We can then discuss this during the debate in the Committee. The opinions of the doctors are also very wide-ranging, as it looks out with long-term consequences, in which intensity a radiation load can be tolerated or not. It is also about one of the paradigms of modern science at all, namely the validity of animal experiments, because once it is argued that the animal experiment has resulted from this or that, and then, when something critical comes out, the others come and say: But that only applies to rats or mice. – Please, either it is valid or it is not valid! That is why uncertainty in the population as a whole is so much about new technologies, because policy is not able to get to a decision-making procedure quickly, which says that one can also be mistaken. Everyone else – including majority groups or minorities – can be mistaken. But I believe that there is a claim for a rapid decision on the part of the population. Therefore, it would be necessary for you to agree to this deadline. However, my hopes in this direction are small.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15228	There is no further statement of words to this effect. We therefore come to the vote, and I ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the request to the Transport Committee for reporting on a federal law amending the Telecommunications Act (Reference 55/A), a period of time until 21. In November 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign on this point. – The request did not find the necessary majority, it was therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15270	I shall resume the debate on item 2 of the agenda on the report of the Committee on Human Rights. Mrs Burket is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15294	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! So now we return to the emotional part. I have to say what I have heard about human rights today, that was an example of hypocrisy, self-righteousness and self-righteousness, as it really seeks. I only wonder one thing – this has my colleague Fallent mentioned today –: Where is the exemplary conduct of the red and green colleagues in human rights? [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] When I look at the Charter of Fundamental Rights and read Article 1, "The dignity of man is untouchable", "it is to be respected and protected", or in Article 6 "right to freedom and security" or in Article 7 " respect for private and family life" and then let Revue pass through what has happened here everywhere and happens and is taken from you without contradiction, yes – quite the contrary! – still forced and approved, then you can only wonder with which incredible chuzpe you put down here and patch the liberals and pour them to the no-one else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When I only take the demonstrations and notice that foreign guests are personally attacked on the town hall square, that guests who stand there listening to a performance are attacked, screamed, incitement, and when I notice that they are your people who act there so, the guests are chased away and the guests are formally frightened... [[Abg. Reheis: What does "your people" mean?]] If I... [[Abg. Reheis: What are you doing?]] Please? [[Abg. Reheis: What does "your people" mean? Whose people?]] Your people, the reds and the greens! Where are the demonstrators at home, my rulers? Do you want to make me aware that there are no socialists marching in that no greens march in the Thursday demonstrations? [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Then I will read to you a little more about your group in particular: Many sincere Carinthian railway tradesmen feel fooled. They were lured to Vienna, rather ordered, under the pretext that they would have participated in a conference. Then they got a hive and a capperl set up and had to demonstrate against the tuition fees. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - These are your people! Because you wanted to know who "your people" are. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who wrote this to you?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This is a newspaper article, Mrs Colleague, which I have read to you now. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What kind of paper? Freedom Party?]] No, it's not a liberal newspaper. But now I'm talking, and be so kind and listen to me! But if you don't want to, then don't listen to me. Mrs Haidlmayr has found that the disabled are highly disadvantaged and has explained that they are no longer entering the tramway. I find it quite immense what this government is going to do, because I don't think that this government or coalition has anything to do with anyone who gets into a tramway and who doesn't. If there are really any abuses there, then of course these must be condemned hardest and there is something to do about it. But then we are not the contact persons here – this is what Mrs Haidlmayr knows – but then she should turn to her Mr. Choir or to Mr. Häupl. These gentlemen are responsible for this. The "obedience" of human rights in red-green continues seamlessly, I must say when I hear what Mrs Lunacek has told us about Mrs Winkler today about the observation centre for racism and xenophobia. She meant that there was only an incredible pretext here to quote Mrs Winkler, that one would only have acted on the committee in question, and that this would have been extremely inappropriate, because it was transparent. I have to tell you: It doesn't surprise me that you call it a maneuver and a transparent one. I must also tell you that, in my opinion, all serious questions have to be asked as to how far Mrs Winkler is predestined or qualified to fill in these posts she holds, if she does not have the minimum level of behaviour, if she does so little to care about human dignity, that she condemns an entire political group in Bausch and Arches and hides herself to as ridiculous statements as that that she does not dare to open the window, for fear of being shot in and shot. – This is a quote from this woman Winkler. I think you should talk to the lady very seriously once and ask her how she sees her job and how she actually imagines it. I think that's a good thing for us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should also like to mention the Bishops Knoll, quoted today. I have to tell you one thing: Mrs Petrovic, as I know, recently explained in one of her speeches that she's got the fragility here – what kind of fragility did she see here? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The injustice!]] Thank you – so she saw the fragility of injustice here. I have to tell you the following: I am evangelical, but Mrs. Knoll would almost have moved me to leave the Protestant church. I saw a little bit of hatred at a bishop's house, which was quite incredible. I wouldn't have thought that was possible with a woman who was assigned to the church. It was very bad! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I miss your respect for political dissidents. That is why I really don't understand – actually I understand –, better said: I take note that you stand down there and "disgusting" us continuously, defaming us. They only forget one, my reigns: We represent – whether you like it or not – over a million voters. These are people who have freely decided to vote for the Austrian Freedom Party, and these people are necessarily also pouring you in, because they have come to know our ideology and what we represent here, what we are planning and what we want to do. Yes, I do! [[Abg. Oillingers: The liberal voters... the functionaries tickle!]] Spitts? – May I remind you that a few years ago there was an action by the Greens: Send the liberal little attention, small packages – and our names and addresses have been printed in the newspaper, Mr. Oillinger! Have you forgotten? – An action of the Greens! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have no democratic culture – not at all, you have no democratic culture! [[Abg. Oillinger: What does this have to do with tickles?]] Excuse me, how do you get to list our names and addresses in the newspaper and ask people to do us bad? [[Abg. Oillinger: What does "do evil" mean?]] Well, that's not stinging, it's another kind of thing. I don't think it's a bit of a stinging. I don't know what you're talking about. [[Abg. Oillinger: What Mr. Haider means!]] I condemn very strict data transmissions, illegal data acquisitions, but I personally understand something else. But that may be the language understanding. Spitting is when I'm really spying on anyone. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] But it's actually quite mercenary, if someone knows what kind of car I'm driving or if I've ever got a criminal warrant. I don't even care. [[Abg. Oellinger: Oh, you don't care?]] - Yeah, I don't care. [[Abg. Oillinger: Well, then we can't talk!]] Well, we don't necessarily have to talk about that either. We have a little different access to these things anyway. [[Abg. Oils: You can see that!]] I was allowed to... Yes, yes... – Yes, I meant it just as much as I said: [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: It's fixed!]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We respect the law, of course! You're turning it around as you need it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You turn down here, you're insulting us, and then you're the ones who say: The Freeman complains continuously! – Listening You stop defaming us all the time, then you don't have to complain to anyone! You deliberately twist the truth, you deliberately twist facts. They also know quite well that Dr. Jörg Haider said at the time that he felt that people who harm the Austrian country were responsible for the damage to the Austrian country, but not: [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Who evaluates this?]] Opposition politician locked up! It has shown itself again and again – as I now have to include all the parties – that there have also been people everywhere in their own ranks who have left out wonderfully. [[Abg. Ollinger: He's called names!]] That's not the point. You know exactly how he meant that. In this context, Dr. Böhmdorfer also said that it was possible to deal with such a thought. That's all! [[Abg. Oils: That's enough!]] That's all you have, but that's enough to make it a tragedy. Is not it wrong or – better said – does not every individual, when he comes here to the High House to respect and defend the Republic of Austria? – And what are you doing – of course not you personally, Mr. Ollinger – what does it do? [[Abg. Oils: Eben! Yes!]] Your group? [[Abg. Oils: What are we doing?]] – You go abroad and make this Austria mad. They'll patch your home. That's your attitude, of course! [[Abg. Ollinger: That must not be true!]] That can't be true? – Excuse me, as long as it hasn't been that the EU sanctions have been lifted! What do you mean, that can't be true? Look at your Mr Voggenhuber, what he's doing! It's a scandal, as it stands – and it's also a representative of Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You talk the same nonsense for so long until you believe him! Bravo!]] – I don't think any nonsense, but I'm just convinced of what I'm doing. I am also convinced of what we represent. That's the difference with you, you're changing this case by case! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Once again to Mrs Prammer, I have to say the following – although I have to admit that this has not grown on my dung, but I have received this information from my colleague Dr. Graf –: [[Abg. You should not slander your colleagues now! Don't slander your colleagues!]] The Human Rights Committee – which has not responded to Mrs Prammer's calls for security at all – has been called upon by us since 1970. At the time, the Greens did not yet exist in Parliament, so they have no fault at all; but the Reds have successfully prevented him. The Social Democrats have prevented this human rights committee you have been left out of today from being so long and wide and really intense. Now, since this new government has been in place, there is a Human Rights Committee. I can only hope and wish he had something... – No, absolutely not, we wanted him! [[Abg. Silhavy: Probably more necessary now than ever!]] We have nothing to hide and hide, we have wanted him. But you are misusing this committee, because in your request, apart from the fact that it is necessary, you could have left it out – and you could have done so – that you need it specifically because of a party – and that it is against the liberals again – and you will already understand that we have no pleasure with the request, because it is simply an infammy in the form in which it has been put. [[Abg. Silhavy: We have access to this thing, you also have one!]] Of course I understand that you have a different access to this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say: This acting and this self-congratulation were quite "great" today. I can only hope that this request will not be approved, because it is absolutely essential because, as is mentioned today and in detail, human rights are being respected in Austria and, in fact, all of us – everyone in its group – should ensure that human rights are respected in their own interests. [[Abg. Leikam: Why not?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why?]] We don't need any observation, and we don't need people looking at our fingers and telling us what we have to do or not to do. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's why you're making the EKIS application for your own mandates?]] We are responsible enough to do what we should. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Are you making the EKIS application for their own mandates?]] Speculated on the stock exchange; I don't know anything. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] I can't tell you that at the best. I'm sure I've never looked in there, you'll believe me. [[Abg. Leikam: What? EKIS?]] Yes. I can only ask you: If you take the word "human rights" into your mouth, you should remember that with your behavior you will ultimately also show what you think about human rights and how far you respect and respect them. In the end, this shows how to deal with our group.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15827	The next speaker was Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e15848	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Burket's remarks were really amusing in many areas. Above all, it has repeatedly stressed the understanding of the liberals – another – to respect the rule of law or the laws. I will come back to my colleague, Mr Mayerhofer, about which some questions still seem to me to be completely open. At least you know that there has been a disciplinary procedure that he has adopted; he has been sentenced for illegal ECIS surveys. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Did you steal the act?]] – I didn’t steal the act, but we can still talk about it, my colleague. I met Mr Mayerhofer in a quite amusing way in the Lower Austrian National Council election campaign when there were several discussions in which Mr Mayerhofer did not take part, but in which he sat with a corresponding crowd in the audience. Mr Wattaul will remember, one of which he has also disputed. There he – I didn't know at that time that he's a countryman, I only learned about it afterwards – took part in the discussion from the audience, and I thought it was already a somewhat strange way of how politicians appear and how they make their moods. But that's another chapter. Mr. Mayerhofer has apparently – and you will... [[Abg. Wattaul: Is it condemned?]] That's always the opposite, I think that's amusing. We can agree on whether that was legal what he did. Or we can agree on this: Are they legal, such errors of a politician, a representative? [[Abg. Wattaul: Is it condemned?]] Did he get a disciplinary procedure? Did he take it? [[Abg. Wattaul: The prosecution put it back, didn't it?]] Is there a disciplinary procedure that he has passed, or not? – That’s a very simple question! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wattaul.]] All right, Mr Wattaul, you seem to believe that what Mr Mayerhofer has done is legal or not to be condemned. [[Abg. Wattaul: No, I don't say that! But he has not been condemned!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] So, what's now? At some point, find yourself able to say: This procedure was illegal!Unknown term type: "%s".? Has anyone said that about you? – I have heard such things from none of the liberals. [[Abg. Wattaul:... punishable!]] The only thing that has come is the criticism that this is coming to the public. I am already telling you that I have absolute understanding of the fact that, when such data is played to the public, even if it concerns political mandates, it is a gross abuse of a political mandate when it comes to politicians – and you do not differentiate at all – acting in their role. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Spitting Greens...!]] I'd like to ask you about it. Perhaps someone from your group can explain what Mr Mayerhofer really wanted to know. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I don't know!]] I don't know – maybe you asked him. You don't care? Is it entirely for you what happened in Lower Austria? – That is obviously your answer! That was three years ago, there are no consequences, it's coming to the public now. Mr Mayerhofer is still sitting in the country. [[Abg. Wattaul: Peter Pilz has the act!]] There is no response from your group, none at all. Is this the reaction of the liberals to cases that have been clarified? Does she look like that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: There are green Members both in Vienna's Landtag and here, who have been condemned for a criminal offence! What do you say? What are you saying?]] You can explain to me what you mean by that. Then we can discuss what is morally okay and what is not. I know Mr Mayerhofer's case, but you're not. [[Abg. Wattaul: Is it condemned?]] Did he get a disciplinary procedure? Did he accept it or not? Skill You do not differentiate, Mr Wattaul – I almost believe you can’t – between political responsibility and criminal responsibility, even if the matter has been put back on the latter? [[Abg. Wattaul: Labour law!]] Okay, what do you say? You with that? What do you say? Is it absolutely okay for a liberal Member to go, completely legal, to collect data, to use it in the public, to sit around the instituency table with ECIS surveys? That's okay, as long as he's not been sentenced to criminal law? Does it matter to you? – I know you were in consolation with him in the election campaign. But do you lack any kind of differentiation, which is possible for a political representative and what is not possible? – That’s incredible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Mr Krüger, you, too, obviously do not want to understand that these are two pairs of shoes. It is necessary to discuss whether it is morally justified that mandates misuse their mandates by engaging in a public function and by exploiting information. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Is it punishable or not punishable?]] That's a chapter. But that is, please, about other... [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Is this your approach to rehabilitation?]] "Resocialization" is interesting! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Mr Mayerhofer probably needed this word, yes, you are right. Maybe you should take some steps there. But I would like to hear from you, from anyone from your group, that what happened was simply not okay. I'm gonna ask you a question now. Second question: Apparently, colleague Mayerhofer's activities do not require a response from the liberals. I would like to take a slow interest: What must happen to the liberals in order for political reactions to take place? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What does it have to do? – Illegal data queries, contemplations, all that is not it. Maybe you can explain it to me! [[Abg. Oillinger: Criticize the party president!]] Mr Burket said you had a different understanding, not all of that. Perhaps you can go to the speaker's desk here and tell us what kind of freeman is so far beyond the border that you can react to it? - I don't know yet. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: A Socialist Councillor...!]] I don't care if you always come with socialist councillors. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Then let me tell you something: Don't just shake in one direction!]] – I didn’t shake at all. But that's a good idea you could use once. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's what exposes you! They always act in one direction!]] No, no, no, [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: No, agitate! That's it!]] But if I only compare what I have followed in the media, I have to say: There was a reaction in Schwechat. Or didn't she? The Schwechater municipal council, which apparently did not abuse the data politically – at least as far as it was communicated; I do not know the more information – but has operated private business with it, has drawn the consequences and resigned. That was the consequence! It is no question that this is not to be justified, but he resigned. There's a difference, isn't it? Is there no difference? What else does Mr Mayerhofer in Lower Austria need to do to ensure that you feel that your side has to react politically? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: When will anything happen from your site?]] – You can always distract and talk about things that have nothing to do with it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... has an investigation against itself!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] He has run an investigation against himself – we have heard it three times today. Peter Pilz will have to make another correction. I don't even know who meant he was already charged. An investigation is going on, so he should now – that's obvious. Their understanding – withdraw or should lead the Green Mr. Pilz to resign. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should do something! You're blaming us to do something! Do something yourself!]] Mr Mayerhofer has been sentenced. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: He has not been condemned! You don't even know the distinction! This is said by the speaker's desk under the protection of immunity!]] Mr Mayerhofer has been sentenced by the Disciplinary Commission. Did he accept the judgment of discipline or not? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: "Condemned" in a disciplinary procedure!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Graf! You can go out now, but apparently what happened is okay for you. You won't solve it here. We will see what is happening in Lower Austria. There is also a question by Mr Kiermaier about which Members of the Landtagsdeputy Mr Mayerhofer in Lower Austria asked questions. Maybe more will come out. Peter Pilz said the last time – I think he has to be increasingly accepted – that people gather in the FPÖ's country clubs, who – I say it salopp, he has formulated it much more strongly – do not take it very seriously with the rule of law and that it is apparently very easy to get the mandates there, but there are no reactions from the party. The fact that Mr Mayerhofer, who checks how the others look, is still sitting in it, is quite original, but nothing else. I would really expect you to define for yourself where you and your policy are the border, until something is accepted – from a legal point of view, you can't even talk – and where the point begins, from which something is no longer accepted. Go to the speaker's desk and explain this! I'd really like that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16282	The next item is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16303	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After my previous speakers spoke and In my view, I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Posch's request from the point of view of my group. Mr Posch's request concerning a report on the human rights situation in Austria was a very interesting proposal for us at first glance. We also discussed this for a longer time within the Group and at first glance at least meant that such a request would be supported, really only at first sight, because the second look has already taught us a better one, because if one looks at this request carefully, one can see the motivation for why this request was made. I'd like to highlight this a little. On points 2 and 3 of the application proposing the review of the government's documents on human rights and calling for particular attention to be paid to respect for fundamental and human rights in the implementation of these documents, particular attention should be paid to: This is already the case, Mr Deputies. It's just a no-na fixture. In the explanatory statement, you suggest that foreign language is confirmed in its critical position by statements by representatives of a government party. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, have all the international reports dealing with the Austrian human rights situation really gone past you? To the motivation: Today's debate has given us all the right in our scepticism. Unfortunately, it is not a serious discussion and a debate on human rights, but it is really a debate on the FPÖ – and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And if you want these, you say that, too, please, and don't blaze your intentions with cloudy words and don't tarry them with human rights. I would also like to say the following: I assume that all parties of democracy, fundamental rights and human rights represented here in the House feel committed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Many speakers of the past few hours have quoted from the so-called "wise" report, and when quoted, at least by the opposition parties, only those who deal with the FPÖ were quoted. That part that deals with human rights has hardly been quoted. [[Abg. Dr. One: You didn't listen!]] Unfortunately, I cannot spare you this observation. Regarding minorities, the report states: "The minority protection granted to minorities living in Austria by the Austrian legal system goes beyond that granted in many other European countries." – Page 10. As regards refugees, the White Report states: "The legal situation of asylum seekers is similar to that in other European countries. In our opinion" – that is, the view of the "three wise men" – "the current government of Austria continues its traditionally open refugee policy." – Page 13. As regards immigration, the White Report states: "It can be found that the Austrian Government's immigration policy shows its commitment to the common European values." – page 16. - That's to the "three wise." Now I would like to give you a concrete example of refugee policy, namely the refugee policy of this Federal Government. For example, MP Muttonen claims that this federal government is driving refugees to the streets. I can tell you: This federal government has been in power since 1. September, ensure that all refugees are insured at the competent regional health insurance fund, not only the refugees in federal care but also those in emergency quarters. [[Abg. Oellinger: Mr. Haider in Carinthia! Mr. Haider in Carinthia!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: He sends them with the ticket!]] - No, you don't know the laws there. It's about federal care. It is planned that all refugees will be insured at the competent local health insurance fund. And this has not been done under socialist responsibility in the interior resort in 30 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] The social assistance of the federal states is responsible for those persons who are not included in the federal care or in the emergency quarters. And there, social assistance or insurance protection can be granted; that is a cannibal provision. All the federal states do this – except Vienna. Mrs Muttonen, could you perhaps repeat your speech to your socialist colleagues in Vienna? Another concrete example of this Federal Government's foreign policy on integration is the adoption of integration – in force for three months. It is about facilitating access to the labour market for foreigners. 4000 applications have been made positively since then. This is action on human rights. At any rate, we want to have a serious and content-based debate on the subject and have therefore decided to highlight the issue of human rights, which is not only Austria, but has long been a hot issue in Europe. As a purely Austrian topic, the discussion ends exactly where it has ended here today to my great regret: in a party political hack without any contentious debate. And for this, the issue of human rights is too important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16424	The next item is the report by Mr Reheis. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16445	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In his speech today, Dr. Krüger, our colleague, Mr Walter Posch, has suggested that human rights should be interpreted unilaterally. Dr. Krüger! I think – and everyone in this House knows that – if someone in this House really lives human rights, that's our power. Walter Posch. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is arbitrary and therefore unfair to claim something else and submit to him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Take down the party glasses!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Dear Mr Wattaul! Since there is no other human rights report, allow me to refer to the Amnesty International Human Rights Report, the 2000 Annual Report, which unfortunately also includes some pages in Austria. [[Abg. Wattaul: Did you read this to the castle eh?]] There are also sad events in dealing with human rights, Mr Wattaul. During the period under review, amnesty internationally writes, both the European Committee on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment and the UN Committee on Torture with the human rights situation in Austria. [[Abg. Wattaul: You have to read this to the castle!]] Mr Wattaul! The Committee is extremely concerned with the continuing accusations of police abuses. He recommended that the competent authorities issue clear instructions to the police in order to avoid incidents of police abuses. Or: Amnesty continued to receive international knowledge of allegations of abuses in police custody. Victims were mainly non-European nationals as well as Austrian non-Europeans who claimed to have been abused by police officers in the course of identity checks. Most victims reported that once they had been overwhelmed, they had been repeatedly treated with footsteps, Fausthiebes and bumps had been given the knee. The officials would have beaten them with batons or sprayed them with pepper spray, the committees of amnesty internationally determined. A human rights report that speaks a spoken language with regard to human rights in Austria. These accusations – that means also amnesty international – certainly do not concern the entire executive, but certainly some black sheep under them, and that must no longer happen in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is also necessary to refer to what has been said in this report on the racist attitude of some ladies and gentlemen to the police: In a number of cases of alleged abuses by police officers, the accusation of racist abuses was also raised. Furthermore, amnesty received international knowledge of information, according to which racist attitudes among the police are not limited to the lower ranks alone. In October, amnesty internationally raised the case of a leading police officer from the security guard in Vienna-Donaustadt, who was said to have made racist statements to about 30 subordinates during a course event in August. According to reports, he told the present police officer: Niners belong first beaten and then asked for the name. Ladies and gentlemen! This is indeed a scandal, what is happening, and such a thing must be suppressed! That is why we also need an appropriate human rights report, in which such events are noted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, if one is currently debating the human rights situation in Austria, one has to talk about police pointed services that have never been established in the Second Republic for a party of the House: The illegal use of the EKIS police computer service, politically motivated queries also via normal taboos, where a government party, the FPÖ, data from at least 150 victims, from André Heller to the superintendent Gertraud Knoll, from which police-internal information system has been passed, is a democratic scandal that is apologised by nothing. It is unbearable that politically different thinkers are monitored by state institutions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also scandalous if these monitoring results are also passed on to representatives of a party of this House for political use. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Young.]] This is, in fact, an unprecedented scandal, a disregard for human rights which you, ladies and gentlemen, have told us about the liberals. The accusations made by your Mr. Kleindienst in his book have to be answered and clarified. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But until now, with the help of your government partner, the ÖVP, and your government majority, you have successfully opposed the establishment of an investigation committee to clarify these incredible accusations. That is why not only the FPÖ, but also the ÖVP, which obviously intends to cover these operations, has to bear joint responsibility. However, I would have expected the liberals to agree to the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because your old party was also calling for this committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen! Data protection is now an essential human right. In the event of such drastic references to misconceptions and data abuse, I must not be allowed to pass anything on to you on to the agenda. Unfortunately, the book of the former FPÖ trade union Kleindienst is a sad pit of human rights violations. Beyond the data scandal and the Spittel scandal, there are also some human rights violations possible in the daily life of some police stations. Ladies and gentlemen, I quote: One of his favourite jobs – that is, a superior – to whom he instigates me, small duty, on construction sites, and in an old bus that is only left behind the stock exchange..., to incite and wake sleeping homeless people with the rubber bat and then to drive them out into the cold of minus 15 degrees... Ladies and gentlemen! This is also a violation of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! But today, by the way, this successful "sandler hunter" is a high-ranking ministerial official, and it also belongs to an investigation into how he gets there! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If that's all right, you have to say: This is an immense cynical and incredible disregard for human rights, an abominable act that expresses that in this homeless poor person one sees something like unvalued life. – This is thoughtful, as it cannot be more despicable to human beings. Mr Kleindienst also describes how one has dealt with a suspect, a black man. The defendant, described by Mr Kleindienst in this case, was arrested and displayed after an intensive on-the-spot survey for resistance to state power. And then there were a couple of trits, beatings, a curfew on the back, not worse. Ladies and gentlemen, not worse? – Mr. Revier inspector just asked him, quite normally, as always, writes Mr. Kleindienst. It's normal, as always? – And so, in the illustrative circle, one asks himself about the Mr. Revier inspector, why the suspect, a black man, has nevertheless raised an accusation of abuse. Why? – This is completely obscene to all those who were in office, according to the ex-FPÖ trade union small service in his book. In view of these written accusations, you still ask yourself: What do we need an investigation committee for? What do we need a human rights report for in Austria? It's all right! Or? What about the case where a police officer, a police doctor and a police lawyer are supposed to have beaten up a little Gauner? Or: What about the case where a police officer beats a drunken co-worker in the service and then locks him in a cell until he's incarcerated? Or: What about the case where a Turkish woman was so strongly questioned by an official of a gender-armed criminal department that she was not really able to talk at last because she was spitas mature? – To read everything, Mr Wattaul, in the confessions of Mr. Ex-FPÖ trade union small service. [[Abg. Wattaul: There was a socialist interior minister in charge!]] – Yes, nothing against it, Mr Wattaul! But if you are so sure, you will agree to the setting up of an investigation committee! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Then these shortcomings can be revealed. Please agree! If the coalition parties in the Human Rights Committee always argue that we are only responsible for Austria and do not have to take care of human rights violations outside Austria, I must say: First of all, it is wrong, and second, we have examples enough to finally act and investigate these shortcomings so that, we hope, they will no longer happen in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP! I therefore wonder why you did not actually request an investigation committee on this matter. If you have nothing to hide, why are you opposed to a human rights report and a committee of inquiry to clarify the accusations of miscarriage and data? Ladies and gentlemen, this is unclear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why are you afraid of this investigation committee? Why? For instance, because there might be a link between FPÖ and human rights violations? Or because a memorable trip of several gentlemen to Vienna's nightlife could be confirmed with a policing, a district councillor and two police officers? Or because it would prove that in all the federal states executive officials were actually working for a party and partially paid, partly rewarded with political mandates and functions? Who benefited from that? – That would be to be clarified, ladies and gentlemen! They would have to be more than interested in clarifying whose chief office it is, where, in stock, papers and dossiers of sensitive and personal information about various ideological opponents are bunked, whether accusations regarding peak services, unbearable pressure from the government parties on the ORF and journalists or allegations of the European Anti-Furder Committee on Police Abuses in the 2000 Annual Report of Amnesty are voting internationally, whether all these human rights violations have also been properly reported. If that is the case, then it is clear, and please do not reject this Enlightenment! The possibilities of reconnaissance are diverse: Once again, a parliamentary committee of inquiry and, on the other hand, an annual human rights report could provide information on respect for human rights in Austria. In my opinion, the government parties should not close themselves – not like the Human Rights Committee, where, unfortunately, most of the applications are often postponed with dubious reasons, and not here in the House. That's why my appeal to the government parties is: Voices You have an education and an annual human rights report! Don't delay, don't shy an open and objective discussion! At the moment, it seems to you that it is often unpleasant, perhaps even unscrupulous, by the government parties to deal with human rights. If not, ladies and gentlemen, prove it! Voices It is the establishment of an investigative committee and our request to draw up an annual human rights report. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16599	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16620	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of this item on the agenda is essentially reduced to the fact that the motion for a resolution of the Socialist Group has not been joined. It is essentially a harmless request to win for any democratic party if one does not have something to hide. It is mainly about producing an annual report on this and reviewing government documents, regulations and other instruments of implementation for human rights. Why you can be against it and why I have concerns that this has to be considered of course results from a lot of signals. The first signal to me was that one has been included in the coalition agreements, in the Preamble, which is of course in any other Western democratic state: that one wants to ensure respect for human rights. If I have to hold this up in a political agreement, which has no constitutional significance, but only a meaning from its content, then I must either never have been sure that I want to respect human rights, or have had concerns that they are being respected, otherwise I do not need it. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Because the Federal President wanted to!]] - You signed it. But if we keep thinking about what happened then, about Krüger, Böhmdorfer: At Böhmdorfer, I have to tell you, the whole thing will be filled with a little more meat. Indeed, if someone brings comprehensive political complaints against politically different thinkers – everyone's good right – that is to say, the political, legal culprit of political agitation, and one makes this man the Minister of Justice, then a human rights report receives a different weight. I think you have the problem that you don't get rid of this weighting yourself. You really have this problem! Mrs Partik-Pablé quoted the White report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only thing that is really inside is about human rights issues – and this should not be kept secret here – is to be found on pages 27 and 28, where it is explicitly addressed that, in the presence of the Federal Minister for Justice, the head of state of Carinthia mentioned the possibility to apply a provision of the Criminal Code for Members who criticize the government. – That's what it says inside, it's not my invention. That stands in there, and you will then see that point 95 on this page states that such a position of a minister in the Federal Government is not compatible with the obligations of a state body as it arises from the constitutional structure of the European Union, which is confirmed in Article 6 of the Union Treaty. This is a clear indication that it is a very problematic process in relation to human rights, and this is complemented by point 98 on page 28, which explicitly points out that both the Supreme Court of the United States of America and the Federal Constitutional Court in Germany and the European Court of Human Rights have decided in important judgments that the use of insults to protect politicians can violate freedom of expression and freedom of the press. The European Court of Human Rights has decided in several cases over the last 20 years. In connection with a person who has covered widely different thinking with complaints, which then essentially include precisely this human rights violation which the report indicates, it must be said quite honestly that it is worrying if the demand for a human rights report is not accepted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is quite annoyed that this statement by Böhmdorfer on the one hand has been rejected, and on the other hand these comprehensive complaints. For me it is very important and crucial that, although already on 1st. ==References====External links==* Official website October the Ministry of Justice – the Public Prosecutor’s Office – did not work. I wonder why, in the case of an officer's crime, the prosecutor's office does not act on its own initiative if a suspicion is expressed. All this in connection with the complaints, with the report of the "three wise" of the European Union and with the criticism expressed here of the delay in initiating a procedure, clearly means that political power is abused for political agitation. I'll give you something to consider: The whole thing is garnished with a peak scandal in which the police and very important gentlemen of the Freedom Party are also involved, all of these breeches and the arguments related to this top-level cowardry and the problem that exists with the Minister of Justice make quite clear the suspicion that human rights are not taken seriously. This is a harmless formulation for you to remove and then reuse data about politically different thinkers. In this regard, there is a confession by the old partyman who said: I use this data I get. I get all the data I want, and then I also use this data. That is, on the one hand, there is one who admits that he uses this data, on the other hand, there is someone who accuses the people who pick it up. This simply results in facts that can no longer be washed off the table. And that's where you're involved! And you have also put into play a difficult course of action on the part of a minister of justice who has been beaten. I believe that human rights remain on track and it would be of great benefit if you agreed to this report, because you could prove for yourself that it is not. I believe that certain developments, which are mainly based on the Freedom Party, have now brought human rights issues into a different light, namely that one thing is related to the name Knoll, Doralt or, if you want to name other names, and I want to make it aware of that... – After what you have mentioned with the superintendent Knoll, which has been assumed by the promoters of your party, that is very worrying in terms of human rights. [[Call to the Freeman: What do you accuse us of in connection with Knoll?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's it: because you don't realize that you have a very problematic Justice Minister, because you don't realize that you're having a top coward on your neck, because you don't realize that you don't deal with people like the superintendent Knoll, and because you don't understand that They have also damaged other people in their professional and existential careers, namely Mrs Lackner and Mr Doralt, whom you have rented out a career with targeted untruths! In my opinion, this too goes towards non-compliance with human rights. Since you are constantly saying that this top-ranking coward has happened among socialist ministers of the interior, I really ask you, even honourable Member Kiss, if he is already using this as an offensive strategy: Why vote Do you not agree with a committee of inquiry if this political responsibility is also to be clarified? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why not? What do you have to hide, although you believe that our ministers have this political responsibility to bear? We agree because we believe that this incident is legally and politically undetected and revealed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I could add some examples that fit into this picture, to the picture that is now happening in this Republic: a peak scandal, a Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, a report from the European Union on the Justice Minister Böhmdorfer, the rejection of an investigation committee. And if you're still doing a comprehensive diffamation of artists that has already started through your party, by artists who have all moved within the framework of the laws – I'm just calling here a few names like Kolig and Public Netbase – then this fits in that picture, which shows that you don't take it so precisely with human rights, according to the motto: Some people we can defame quietly, some people we want to defame, others we sharpen so that we know something in case we want to defamate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wonder why you are in favour of your own party colleagues' bets. [[Abg. Wattaul: We have nothing to hide!]] Yes, but I think you are not sitting there as someone who wants to hide something or hide something, but you are sitting here because you should follow the democratic rules and help them break through! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wonder if it's so pleasant for you that someone knows what you've done in your past, and that police share your data. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If that's good for you, it's all great. But I wonder much more why you do not agree with this committee of inquiry if your old party has already recommended it. There is only one possibility that is pressing here as a reason: There is someone in the club who does not want such a committee to take place and who tries to prevent it by all means, even against the will of the simple yet very influential party member Haider. And there is only one that is constantly mentioned in this matter: This is Mr Westenthaler. That is, he could have something to hide here, which would also explain the embarrassing reactions he showed upon the rise of this scandal. He had a embarrassing appearance in the "Report": He ran away from the media – especially he who doesn't leave a football match, for example, where he can hang the face in the camera. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] So it's incredible that he runs away from the media at once. For me, this is actually the true admission of this scandal, in which he is heavily involved and before which he wants to press himself permanently through the rejection of the media. I believe that human rights should be worth something to you, and consider your positions in these matters! We could reach a relatively simple agreement with this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16753	Mr Krüger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you certainly know § 58 para. 3 GOG particularly precise. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16778	Mr President. My previous speaker explained that the "Wise" report dealt with the human rights situation in Austria at a single point, that is, page 27, which refers to a press conference of the head of state of Carinthia. I am right in saying that the White Report also deals very well with human rights elsewhere, on page 19 in the conclusions on combating racism, anti-Semitism, discrimination and xenophobia. Here, in point 63, the following is carried out: "From the documents quoted in this section of the report, it can be concluded that the current Austrian government is taking part in the fight against racism, anti-Semitism, discrimination and xenophobia in Austria." Mr Wittmann, what country have you actually been talking about?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16814	The next speaker was Mrs Plank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e16850	High house! Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I thank you for the praise for our comrade. I also believe that this was a very profound inventory of the situation you would have to face. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Did you say "genossen"?]] I am impressed because human rights violations obviously move the government parties. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Comrade Wittmann!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: We are not ashamed!]] – That’s it, we’re not ashamed! We're only ashamed when others call themselves that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Human rights violations clearly move you from the government parties. That means, you know, there are. ==References====External links== In fact, November is looking for human rights violations, under prominent honorary protection: Head of State Haider and Chief of State Pühringer appear at this invitation. But surprise: It is exclusively about human rights violations abroad – once again! Once again it will be shown abroad, and I think this is very symptomatic, because you have also dealt with the SPÖ's request for the reimbursement of an annual human rights report on any human rights violations in Austria today. But you don't want that at any price. They only want to have abroad on the test stand. Your request, which you received from our request, reads as follows: The Federal Government is invited to submit a report to the National Council on the situation of minorities, refugees and immigrants in the EU Member States. . They really do not want to have a report on the human rights situation in Austria. They only want to look at others, but not in Austria. Are there no human rights violations here in Austria? They have already been shown very strongly today how much reason there is to draw up a human rights report. Don't you want the government parties to be watched because they have so much to hide? And how do you deal with the rights of people in Austria, for example with free journalism? They put pressure on the free journalists. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – I do not put pressure on free journalists, Mr. Collegue. Not me! For example, Klubobmann Westenthaler called 22 times in the ORF on a day. – No throwaway hand movements, that's documented. [[towards the liberals]] I wonder: every half hour once or six hours every quarter of an hour? [[Abg. Neudeck: Who's documenting this?]] Do you doubt the statements of the ORF journalists? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Do you prove that you are using the incarnation very specifically because you doubt what other people say? Are you proof of this now? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You admitted this earlier when Mr Wittmann accused you of being stifled in your own ranks, and you were still proud of it and thought you had nothing to hide. [[Abg. Neudeck: You hear the ORF off the phone!]] You admit that this system is the right system for you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You don't question your system at all! It's your system, and you're still proud to announce it here. Mr Ortlieb has spoken of the good conscience and the gentle rest-cushion. 22 times Mr. Westenthaler calls, perhaps to install a new definition of the term "objective". The objective is then what the FPÖ benefits. That's your concept of objective. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] Mr Wattaul! Why don't you ever talk about talking? I experience You're just bubbling down here all the time, and I'm never going to experience you taking a profound position from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If the same Klubobmann Westenthaler warns of left and left-wing editors in the ORF when the same man threatens to drive out the party by law, which he always appears to perceive and perceive, if not positively reported on the FPÖ, then the frightening steps to "democracy" according to FPÖ-cut, as Frido Hütter notes today in the "Small Newspaper". I quote – and the "Small Newspaper" is not really very close to SPÖ –: "This is a known method of dictatorship. One does not seek the authors of potential scandals, but attacks with full force their potential uncoverers. Deputy Pure." - Quote. [[Abg. That's it! For that, the ÖVP goes to Mariazell!]] That's it! – Yes, I really think so, I know. [[Abg. Young: Do you really believe what you're saying now?]] Today's play of words by Minister of the Interior Strasser, if he is not allowed to break down the great services of the executive, is not a calming word, in this case by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let's not be surprised: The most powerful "simple party member" Austria has already announced that it will finally create "order" in the editorial offices. [[Abg. Wattaul: Tell me what Mr Rudas has done!]] The ÖVP should also have been able to know and know this, but it does not interfere; it plays with it without any harm. Mr Klubobmann Khol sends faxes to the ORF to order the term to be used. State Secretary Morak wants to withdraw money from the ORF, an independent medium, by refusing to recover the exemption. [[Abg. Sweamlein: That's what you call measures!]] The same Secretary of State Morak has explained here in this House in pure cynicism why free radios did not need subsidies: so that they – quote – can finally become free. I wonder, Did he mean bird-free? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wattaul.]] Now you're yelling again! Why Come You don't come here and tell me about the microphone? I feel that's an rude thing. If your colleague, Fallent, has sworn the tone here, maybe he should tell you, perhaps under four eyes, if you don't understand it that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why don't you talk about human rights violations here? I do not assume that Patrick Ortlief's boredom is the reason for talking about human rights only. I'd like to ask him how he meant "only." Why are journalists sniffing around in their lives? Why are prominent ORF editors the goal of police reviews? Is it surprising under this light that the ORF editors go to the public with a resolution because of the – quote – "unbearable interference"? This is obviously not just like "business as usual", as Klubobmann Westenthaler meant. It is more likely that despite its unpleasant and constant disturbances, the ORF is trying to make business as usual, namely objectively report. Is it surprising under this light that Commission President Prodi and the French Presidency have been asked questions concerning the pressure on the journalists of the ORF? Your pattern is so simple: no human rights report, no unpleasant facts on the table. As the government parties also deal with the rights of people, for example, the oppositional MP, President Prinzhorn has clearly highlighted in his presidency today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your statements, Mr Klubobmann Khol, also fit seamlessly, if you say, for example, with regard to the intellectual capacities of opposition representatives: That's what the stupidest Eskimo understands! This is again something for colleagues Fallent regarding his concerns about the speech. This remark not only defames the Members, but much more the people of the Inuit. You should know that Eskimo is called meat eater, and this name is unworthy of human beings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! How do you personally keep up with human rights and above all with the dignity of people? The following can be read in a manual of legal sciences: The state community draws its deepest justification from the fact that it enables and ensures a peaceful living together of people in freedom, equality and dignity. Therefore, to all members of the government parties: Will you at last fulfil this responsibility? Take human dignity and human rights seriously – not only in Sunday's speeches, but where Austria is watching.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17094	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17136	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a very sad discussion that we are dealing with here. [[Abg. Böhacker: What you're right with!]] We are experiencing the government parties that refuse the discussion, and on the other hand – and this is noted by these calls – the FPÖ becomes nervous. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] One question: Did you hear anything today, something internal? Did the investigation reports do anything? [[Abg. Neudeck: You know that before us!]] I have always seen the affected face of Mr Westenthaler. It certainly did not go well with this today. [[Abg. Gaugg: When I look at your face, it's not...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to data protection, it is about human rights. It's you... [[Abg. Gaugg: In the Chamber of Workers you have a pointed department that does nothing but press releases...!]] Mr President. I am asking for a call for an order to this Member. No chamber staff member of a Chamber of Workers or a representative of the interests can make the observation that we have a peak service!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17241	Deputies! I shall, of course, be given the minutes immediately and read the exact context.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17274	I find it absolutely unheard of to hear what is happening in this House by the Freedom Party, a so-called employee representative.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17318	Mr Maier, you are still on the floor. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr Gaugg has said in his interlocutory call, in the Chamber of Workers...! – Are you giving me power, Mr President?]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn switches on the room microphone shortly before the abg. Dr. Mertel's standing.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger:... are in Parliament, Mr President!]] Mr Maier. Mrs Mertel spoke on business. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn consults an official on the Bureau.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: The whisperer is up there!]] Mr Maier, you are speaking. I gave you the floor. Please, continue your speech! [[Call to the SPÖ – in the direction of Dr. Moser, who is standing at the Bureau – Mr. Moser: "President Moser"]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I say again: Mr Maier, you are speaking. Please, continue your remarks!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17407	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This scandal, which we have discussed here today, is not the only one that has happened in our country in recent years. On the basis of individual examples, I will try to explain the role of the Freedom Party, those of your representatives, but also the role of the Austrian People's Party. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] And I would be particularly interested, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, who is actually this "high-ranking ÖVP-functionary" who has taken the train to Innsbruck and has provided the relevant data and information, according to the statement by Kleindienst. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's not true! They're flying!]] I also ask: How does the Freedom Party react to the fact that in recent years – evidenceable by the Stenographical Protocol! – data collected and transmitted unlawfully in this House have been provided? Keywords: Stadler, keyword: Haider. I would also like to remind you of a press conference by the then FPÖ Klubobmann Haider in Vienna, in which the data collected from the ECIS system was used unlawfully. [[Abg. Gaugg: He got all that from the castle! The Minister of the Interior!]] – One has, of course, insisted that these came from Salzburg; unfortunately, one no longer knew who had called them. [[Abg. Böhacker: Oh that! That's a confession!]] - But now you can understand that. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The book by Mr Kleindienst gives the answer to the question of how this stamp system of the Freedom Party is organized. Mr Molterer, you are sorry today; I personally appreciate you. I would rather see the Federal Minister for the Interior, the Federal Minister for Defence or the Minister of Justice sitting here. [[Abg. Swimmlein: The Federal Chancellor!]] We are dealing with two issues: on the one hand, we are talking about legal issues – Mr Wittmann has already pointed out – and on the other hand about political issues. The legal questions are about criminal, disciplinary, but also – what most people forget! – on matters of civil law, namely how those people in our country can turn to war, whose data have been used unlawfully and abusively. The Data Protection Act contains a very clear criminal catalogue for data abuse: one year of imprisonment in the use of data in which the data subject has a legitimate confidentiality interest. However, there are also very clear administrative penalties. – As a lawyer, I assume that all parties represented in this House believe that any data abuse should be avoided with the necessary sanctions and legal means. In any case, we Socialists – and this has made our party chairman Gusenbauer very clear – will make our contribution to this. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Where is he, the Gusenbauer?]] That is why there are also quite a number of specific questions on our part about politicians, members of the European Parliament, the National Council or the countryside. In this context, there will be questions about municipal councils and also about constitutional judges, whether perhaps our constitutional judges were also illegally questioned, and of course about political critics of the Freedom Party, the artists, social groups or women's initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We as the opposition party are interested in an absolute and complete clarification of these accusations, as they were or will be expressed in this book by Mr Kleindienst, but also through interviews. High house! I would now like to comment on what has been said by my previous speakers, but I would like to add a few more points. [[Call the ÖVP: Must that be?]] – Mr Khol spoke of political responsibility. – Mr Khol, it is not only a question of who illegally retrieves, transmits or uses data, but it is simply and simply the question of who are the backmen who have caused this! You "forget" that in your presentation! – And there are already very concrete indications that go towards the Freedom Party. To the address of my colleague Kiss, who meant – that was almost a cabaret-like appearance from him – the reds and the greens would have caused this scandal. – Mr Kiss, none of the Reds and Greens is a member of the AUF and has written this mini-service book! The only responsible are in the Freedom Party! Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now to some very specific cases. Unfortunately, the Federal Minister for Defence is not here now; he has done a very special Fauxpas: Former members of BGV II were forced to become the Federal Ministry of State Defense (Federal Ministry of Defence) by 1 400 persons. Without there being a legal basis for it, these employees, formerly BGV-II employees, now received the call – the service instructions – to complete a so-called personal security declaration. [[Abg. Boy: That wasn't a clue!]] Mr. Jung! I have complete correspondence here! I can show you that. All employees were invited to sign this. [[Abg. Young: A call is not an instruction!]] – Of course, the question is particularly interesting: What should these colleagues in BGV II announce? In addition to questions about general data, which are already in the staff act, there were very interesting questions. And there you have to ask yourself: What about my employer, for example, how much debt I have?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Young: Yes!]] I ask you, Mr Jung: What is the covenant about whether someone is a member of a club and what functions does he perform there?- Oh, my God! The Austrian Trade Union Confederation, for example, is also an association. I too am a member of the Social Democratic Party of Austria and have a function in this. Do you want to ask all this? [[Abg. Young: Yes, it is necessary in some areas!]] I can only tell you one thing: This affects human rights, and we from our group will therefore confront the Data Protection Commission and the Data Protection Council with these issues and these issues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Partik-Pablé also spoke today on the subject of data protection. However, the law in this respect is obviously not known to her, but it has been said in a press release that a data clause on the part of the FPÖ is "opportunity". Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have an act, including affidavit. Mrs Partik-Pablé has written down certain target groups in the course of an election campaign, and I read from this letter, which I have received: Quote: I received a personal advertising letter from Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé. This surprised me all the more than I, in my view of the world, had no contact with their party, the FPÖ, and until then had been spared with advertising material addressed to me personally. Mrs Partik-Pablé's letter of advertising was clearly addressed to a certain group of persons, namely the "love parents" of a mentally handicapped child. - Quote. Mrs. Partik-Pablé! Where did you get this data? Or otherwise expressed: Where did you steal this data? [[Abg. Edlinger: This is really a scandal!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party, as it is represented today, is a party that uses data abuse; it uses illegally queryed data. The examples are known: the former Klubobmann Stadler, the "simple party member" Jörg Haider – and so on. However, the Freedom Party also stands for the rape of data protection rights. They do not comply with the legal provisions – and this can be demonstrated in a very concrete way in this group of persons, especially those who used to be employed in BGV II. However, the Freedom Party also stands for the erodement of data protection. Here's an example: We will soon be given a "Secretary Protection Act", which in concrete terms means that we will adopt a NATO rule. In NATO – we know that – America dominates with regard to data protection rights. And we also know what problems Europe currently has with the United States of America in terms of information rights, data transmission and so on. – You from the liberals are exactly for this policy – but we from the Social Democratic Party are certainly not! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Data protection is an essential human right. – On the other hand, however, there is data abuse, whereby individuals are privately, professionally or politically damaged, with the one aim: to detonate these people in the public. Of course, one could say a few things about this peak scandal, which is a FPÖ scandal, but I just want to say: It seems that money has been paid – the accounts are now being opened – and others have been rewarded with mandates. It will also be necessary to look closely at the representatives of the liberals who work in the executive service, who have come to the rural and municipal councils in the past legislative periods – and what access rights these, not only to ECIS, but also to the other information systems, had. A very important point, namely the situation in the federal states. That's where you'll have to research exactly. – I would have liked to see the Minister of the Interior here, because I just wanted to ask him: Minister of the Interior, what have you done in the federal states? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What did Schlögl do?]] – I have heard that little has been done to date. I would like to state the following very clearly: We Social Democrats consider it incompatible when political representatives – regardless of which party they belong to! – Access to ECIS or other data systems! In conclusion, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: We experience here a scandalous cover-up policy of the Freedom Party, but also such of the Austrian People's Party. There is still no complaint from the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Should we complain now or not? What do you want?]] As we believe, you will not agree to the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I now quote from the "Format" addressed to the FPÖ – complaints! Not: complain! –: Top coward: If the FPÖ does not stand in court against the accusation of being a brilliance party, it must live with the call to be one. - Quote. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! As long as You didn't sue yourself, you're gonna stay a tricker party for us! That must be stated in all clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] As long as the Austrian People's Party is in nocturnal silence, it owes itself to the political compatriot, Mr. Klubobmann Khol!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17687	After the end of the speech by Mr Mag. Mayer, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17708	Mr President. Mr Gaugg, in an interlocutory call to the speaker, Mr Maier, said that there was a "spitzel department" in the Chamber of Labour. The Socialist Group is therefore asking, according to § 103 of the Rules of Procedure, for Mr Gaugg to give an order.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17739	Mr Dr. Khol spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17760	Mr President. The same Member, Mr Dr. Maier, called the FPÖ a "spinning party" - and we from the ÖVP also in this context. – That’s why: the same right for everyone!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17793	I have already decided to have the Stenographical Protocol, in which the calls are noted, and I will decide on it after the Stenographical Protocol has been established. [[Abg. Grabner: He's been listening to the Khol! That's a president! He cannot hold the presidency!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Probably said top party!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Ein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e17842	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by trying to get back to the subject of our real debate, namely human rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, in particular you, Mr Wattaul. First of all, let me make the following comment: I think that if you are here from the FPÖ when women are on the stage, when women are here at the speaker's desk, you have nothing more urgent to do than disturb them in their speeches, this shows a remarkable attitude towards the dignity of people, especially the dignity of women! Enjoy it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: You are an opponent of equality!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop with this tearing gland!]] I am a friend of equal rights, Mr Jung, and I am therefore in favour of women having the same right to listen from your side, especially to have a right that you do not get stuck in constantly. [[Abg. Wattaul: That was sexist now!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: A Macho intermediate call was that!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] High house! In the Committee on Human Rights, we have dealt with a request from Mr Posch, which was aimed at encouraging the government to submit an annual report on human rights. We have debated this in the Committee – and subsequently the majority of the government groups have refused to report on human rights annually. But at the same time they considered it necessary to confront our group constantly with attacks. – I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups: What problem do you have with a human rights report, if you think everything is so wonderful anyway, as Mrs Partik-Pablé said with her quote from the White report?- Oh, my God! What Is Preventing You then want to show this opportunity to really take it every year, how wonderful it is for us to take it?- Oh, my God! Why vote You do not agree to this request?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! But that's not the only thing where you're somewhat inconsistency in the matter. In recent months, we have discussed a new European Charter of Fundamental Rights, we have drawn up such a draft and sent it to the informal summit of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union in Biarritz. Of course, we have fought for this, all of us from Austria, who have worked in this Convention on Fundamental Rights, that this Charter of Fundamental Rights will be part of the European Treaty work, because it is a question of giving the European citizens, the people who live in this Union, enforceable human rights, enforceable citizens' rights. Therefore, before this summit in Biarritz, we wanted to support Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Foreign Minister with a request to represent this position in Biarritz. The Federal Chancellor stated in the main committee that he also felt that a binding Charter of Fundamental Rights should be sought. But then what happened? – This request was voted down by the majority of government groups! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, I should like to say They ask: What is the problem with giving rights to people in the European Union – and that is, of course, to those in Austria – who can enforce them against the European Union, against certain institutions?- Oh, my God! What is the problem with human rights, then, that you must reject such an application?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The speakers of the government groups have, of course, repeatedly referred to the so-called "wise" report, including Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. But it has no special meaning for the government groups to refer exclusively to those passages in which it is quite clear and acknowledged that we have achieved a considerable level in the field of human rights and also in the area of minority protection over the last decades. That's right! But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the government groups, human rights are not something which in particular invites self-righteousness and self-consecration. It is necessary that we focus our eyes in particular on those things where we are not yet good enough. I would invite you to read also those passages of the "Wise" report in which the "three wise" not only criticize the election campaign of the FPÖ in Vienna in 1999 – my God, that is self-evident! – but also point out the risk, in their view, of a European scale, when the Minister of Justice acts as he acts. - I don't want to quote the whole thing again. Ladies and gentlemen! What problem do you have in recognizing that we can get even better in the area of human rights security, in the area of minority protection? Why do you reject an annual human rights report? What do you have to fear if you think we're so good anyway? High house! Today, Mr Mainoni, by midday, has accused the Social Democrats of the fact that the opposition parties as a whole are hunting people. Mr Mainoni, you should remember a little bit better the systematic method that the liberals have used in recent years. I just want to confront you with very few examples, so it won't be too long. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] From this first series, Mr Haider and Mr Stadler have repeatedly been brave, as they are, tossed political opponents in the protection of parliamentary immunity, confronted with the accusation of conduct relevant to criminal law, can never prove it and never prove it. [[Abg. Wattaul: Eliminating! Who was the outsider?]] – Not "eliminators", Mr Wattaul! Don't yell in – listen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Examples: In the 1995 election campaign, the liberals, in particular Mr Haider, have repeatedly appointed an employee of the Salzburg regional health fund, in particular, and with his function, claiming that he is a typical case of a schmarotzer in a social insurance institution playing tennis instead of working. It turned out – everyone knows that, even with you – that this servant had leukemia and no longer had to live for a very long time and that for this reason he did not go after his service. [[Abg. Schwemlein: What about the primary school teacher?]] What kind of opportunity, if someone here convicts of you in the protection of parliamentary immunity, is put into the dirt of defending himself? – This is the method you used. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It may be easier for others who have a little more spirit of resistance who have not fallen into a deadly disease to defend themselves. You said, among other things, that two EBT officials had left me files in my term of office. They called them. The two officials were able to defend themselves. They led a trial against Haider, and they won him. Only, Mr Mainoni: You should think of these cases, not pretending that we are doing human hatred! It has been your method systematically in recent years! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me just mention two more examples; it would be innumerable, but I do not want to bore you. First example: ==References== Haider gave a speech in a beer tent in Salzburg in May 1995. [[Abg. Jung reads a passage from a book.]] Among other things, he accused my then press spokesman of being in conflict with the law because of violent offences. He has publicly explained this and has not provided any proof of it. – It was also wrong! But that's the method used by you. I think you should not accuse other people of human hatred if you have systematically operated them over years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Second example: I think that the case of the university professor Doralt, at that time still in Innsbruck, now in Vienna, which you have accused for years and in respect of which you have not respected for years also the judgments of the Austrian courts, is sufficiently well-known. I don't want to list any other cases, but you can rely on us to document and name them. You should therefore be careful with the accusation of the manhunt addressed to our address! Whoever is sitting in the glasshouse, Mr Mainoni, should be holding back the stone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me say, Mr Wattaul, one last thing to the liberals: You have previously found it necessary to make an intervening call and to say that you have nothing at all to do with the fact that your colleagues, who are free, have been stopped because they have nothing to hide. – That’s a great answer, at least the first admission that it happened. That's a little surprising from your side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! Finally, I would like to say: The Socialist Group, or Mr Posch, has not submitted any request for condemnation of the Freedom Party, although those examples I have cited would also justify criticism of the Freedom Party. Mr Posch did not make a request to condemn this federal government, but he requested that a human rights report be returned annually. You have nothing more urgent to do than beseech us as if we were suffocating the Federal Government. We did not question the Federal Government, we invited them to submit an annual report on the human rights situation in Austria. If you don't trust that, you have to have good reasons. But if you trust, I invite you to be taught a better person and to decide on such a request with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18074	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18095	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I shall try, in the first part of my speech, to refocus attention on the report which is to be decided today. In fact, almost all socialist speakers felt that this government, the government parties or the government groups were afraid of a human rights report. I have to disagree quite clearly with that! They always forget that this Human Rights Committee – and I would like to confirm this once again – has been called for by the liberals for many decades. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - For many decades! . I am sorry that you no longer take facts seriously, because that is your problem, Mr Einem. [[Abg. Dr. One: Four fingers, yellow?]] That's why you're sitting in the Deputies Bank and not on the Prime Minister's Bank. That's the problem you have! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As this committee has finally been set up on the basis of these majority relations, which arise in this House because of the majority of the Blue and Blacks, we are now constantly being pretended as if we did not want to discuss human rights in this House. We will also accept a resolution emphasizing the Committee's report that a report will be presented to the House, namely, a report not only on Austria, but also on all EU Member States as regards their status on issues such as minorities, refugees, immigrants, that is, human rights. [[Abg. May. Prammer: But the other Member States will be "enjoyed"!]] If you, Mrs Prammer, now call in and say that the other Member States will be delighted – and the "natural" sarcastically – then I can say to you at this point: The other countries, too, need a benchmarking that we are striving for, and the best practice we want to carry out in Austria is not to be shy. You could learn a lot from Austria and its representatives on human rights issues and minority issues, and you know that. But it's almost overlooked. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In fact, this motion for a resolution does not want to produce a human rights report, but rather to achieve a junkimation with other materials, so that one can constantly suggest and assume – and this is clearly in the reasoning – that any government template is practically illegal to human rights and therefore must be checked for its compatibility with fundamental and human rights, possibly from outside institutions as far as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] They obviously do not take their own work seriously as opposition and as parliamentarians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It shocks me that, as a parliamentarian, you have the self-understanding that you are no longer able to respect and point out respect for human rights and fundamental and freedom rights. They are just as parliamentarian as I am and others here in the House. I think it is good for us to decide for ourselves in Austria about our laws according to the standards that exist in us, but this bad conscience obviously does not come about. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Same right for everyone!]] I am telling you why you probably need help just as much as the Green Group in parliamentary work. – I did not create the following, but I came to it as a witness of a court case in Linz, in which Mr. Haidlmayr made a statement – at the time she was a private prosecutor – and in which I made a statement. Because my train went later, I looked at this trial to the end. There she has put on record, which is ultimately reflected in the judgment, that she does not read parliamentary questions or similar things that she has signed before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I have the record here that says what you said. Everything's going to be clear to me. If I am a Member who does not read for himself what he has signed here in Parliament... [[Abg. May. Haidlmayr: lost in all two instances, this process!]] The statement of reasons states that: Even if parliamentary questions were put, which Mrs Haidlmayr signed and signed with Mrs Haidlmayr, it has not been proved that Theresia Haidlmayrvom really knew the objective of these questions, because, according to Mrs Haidlmayr's statement, it is so established in a judgment that other questions are not signed. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: You have lost the process!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You have lost the process!]] If this is your political debate, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and also of the Reds, then of course I understand the call for external help in the parliamentary work. It's not our self-understanding! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: You have lost the process – in all two instances!]] I'll tell you something. It is also a human right that the citizens and the people in this House will be represented by Members who know in their political work what they are doing, who know what they are signing. I'll tell you that and I'll write it to you in the master's book! [[Abg. Oillinger: I think you know what you're doing! But that's the problem!]] When talking about Spittel, you must not forget the report "Spitzel once and now" which was said in the press and referred to the then Minister of Science One. The journalist Erich Witzmann has clearly stated in relation to the top cowardry that you, as a minister, not as a Member of Parliament, have broken from the fence at the University: Ensigns will be on their way. Mr Witzmann said quite correctly in his analysis: Whoever paints the image of inspectors dressed as students on the wall has to expect the immediate talk of the beings and the surveillance state. Caspar On Tuesday, however, one of them has clarified and strengthened its first announcement of Monday of the new employee surveillance. He, Caspar One, thus deliberately pursues a concept with his overrun measures. Hidden peaks, however, are not the appropriate measure. They actually remind of a despotic and insidious surveillance state, even if the proposal comes from a social-democratic – quotation sign – "Future Minister". – You have made yourself deserved in this way! - Caspar One. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who was that? One?]] Since today the Chamber of Labour has been addressed, Salzburg 1998, to the Chamber of Workers' Spitzel study: For a study on income and working conditions in Callcenters of the Salzburg Chamber of Workers, it is intended to be determined in hidden research in the respective establishments. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: The hump dump is responsible for this, for the call centers! The call centers are your specialty!]] Six people should work hidden in the call centers. AK Director Gerhard Schmidt, your group, the Socialists: Hidden work is quite a legitimate means – O-tone! – the research and has nothing to do with detachment. – This was said by a workers’ chamber director in 1998. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: What does Hump-Dump say?]] If I have taken these socialist opinions on hidden investigators – there are countless, I have only taken the hidden investigators Caspar One and the workers' chamber director from Salzburg – and know and know socialist methods, then, of course, I find the suspicion that Mr. Kleindienst must have been a hidden investigator of the SPÖ or the Greens and clearly stands in your soldier! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: saber hits on the head!]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course, the question will be asked why Mr Kleindienst... – I do not understand the excitement of the socialists. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Of course, the question will arise as to how it can be that Mr. Kleindienst, as a private man, was able to do research for days, hours and weeks in the still socialist-dominated Vienna police apparatus to write his book – also with the help of some other people. This will be clear sooner or later! [[Abg. Grabner: Fairy tale hour Munich! Münchhausen!]] If Mr Maier and Mrs Plank are constantly talking about human dignity and human rights, and say – just like Mr Wittmann – that we have to take human dignity seriously, I have to say: Go inside, go to your clubman, who is a partyman, go inside! [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Hump-Dump! Humpel-Dumpel!]] I consider it to be human dignity when a clubman says about his own group regarding the ability to work: A third will create it as an opposition politician, a third will never make it, and a third will be resocializable. – That’s where he scratches on your dignity and on all of our human dignity, because he obviously divides the representatives of the House in third ways, especially those of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Which third is Hump-Dump?]] The question now is, Mr Fischer: Which third are you? [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: To the hump dump!]] To that third, which Norbert Reader describes? To that third one he says you're a "outflow model"? Have you complained? – You won't complain because you know that's right. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why are you so nervous, Mr President Fischer?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: I'll give it to you in writing, or I'll get an order call!]] You all also know that Mr Gusenbauer said this before hundreds of people and meant you. I think you could once in your own house pay attention to the dignity of human beings, put them in order and clean them up with what your party is doing. Finally, because, in the morning, Mr Oberhaidinger, with a quote from a letter from President Fischer, tried to put it right with regard to comrades. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Hump dump?]] It was not an actual correction, but arousing and illuminating as he meant it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] I have withdrawn the original request, and to your address I say: There's nothing in it from comrades, these are in your third home, not in my third. There it says: Deputies Dr. Martin Graf, Scheibner, Dr. Kurzmann and colleagues – none of comrades. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Your address is the hump dump!]] But I'm telling you: It has always been a thorn in my mind that in official protocols – whether historical or not – this pre-loaded term "genosus", which is as pre-loaded as "people", I am permanently deprived of my freedom of confession – and that is also a human right – of my own. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Take it back! That's unheard of! Take it back!]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Colleague, even if you wake up by hand and make me understand that I have to be stupid, crazy, depressed or anything else, I tell you one thing – I don't take you seriously on this point, but I really tell you one thing... [[Abg. Neighbors: This is your interpretation!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Which third are the ones over there?]] I don't know which third of them are now waving by hand, definitely to the third that has no manners, I know. That's what I have to say now! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] I'll hold you here, even if you smile at it, once again: For me, it is also a question of my highest personal freedom of confession – and I do not let you take it – whether you call me comrades or not. [[Abg. Silhavy: Neither do we!]] And I don't understand that historically either. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] I do not belong to comrades, I do not want to be comrades, for myself the comrades have been dealt with politically in Europe in 1989, namely in the collapseing, real-life Communism. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Thank God you are not a comrade!]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] You may still find yourself in the union and with the socialists, but not with me in my heart and with my liberals. And that's what I'm writing to you in the master's book! You can laugh and joke about it as you like. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] This is a point which I would like to say to you: If it is the way you do it, you smile at everything, make fun of everything that moves other people, then show your true face, then you really have nothing to do with human rights and fundamental and freedom rights, my dear comrades. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Do you think your speech can be taken seriously?]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You can't take your speech seriously!]] It's written to you in the main book!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18611	Mrs Haidlmayr spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to start by rehearsing the facts you wish to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18654	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf has claimed that I would have put on record in the media process I have led against the Freedom Party, not every Member of Parliament can read all the requests he has signed. – This statement is false! The finding that it is not in the Rules of Procedure or that there is no parliamentary basis which states that each co-signatory must also read this request from the relevant Member on a request is a finding made by the Judge. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You sign something without having read it!]] I would also like to point out that I have won this process in all two instances and have received 50 000 S in addition as compensation from the FPÖ. [[Hear-hört-Rufe at the SPÖ]] Of course, I have made this amount available to the "self-determined life" movement in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not an actual correction!]] I believe that if I succeed in bringing this result into line with other processes against the liberals, we can also work well in the Self-Determined Life Movement because we have regular capital with them.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18714	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Your remaining speaking time, Mr Deputies, is up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18762	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the speech of the Fuchsmajor or comrade Graf now to another colleague of the Freedom Party. Mr Ortlieb's speech takes three conclusions, and I would like to remind you once again. First knowledge of Mr Ortlieb: He feels very comfortable in his club, in a club that, before he received it, has had him stifled. Second knowledge of Mr Ortlieb: He is surprised that the debate on human rights is being debated in Parliament all day. – Mr Ortlieb, I understand that you would rather discuss the downhill run in Sierra Nevada or in Albertville or your fall in Kitzbühel – but this is a parliament! This is a Parliament in which we need to discuss human rights in this country, which needs to be debated in great detail, especially then and so because you have given a third knowledge for the best. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] The third recognition of you is according to APA: The FPÖ member Ortlieb noted the top coward – quote Ortlieb –: "The media use these means. It's not going to be discussed either. With us" – the liberal – "it will be a scandal of the special class." - That's your quote. Here, Lord Ortlieb, I note to your knowledge: For the first time in the speech of a member of the Liberal Party here in this House – not about a medium such as "News", not about an interlocutory call such as that of Mr Wattaul, but through a speech by a liberal MP – we have the proof that the Freedom Party has carried out peak activities. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: (demonstratively grasping over the head with the right hand to the left ear) After this is an argumentation!]] What you are excited about, Mr Ortlieb, is only that you are not upset at the media, but only about the Freedom Party. You don't understand. I say to you, Mr Ortlieb: If you do not understand that, then you are really wrong in this Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Don't be so proud down there!]] But one will still be allowed to discuss it. I also say very seriously to the addresses of the liberals: You should consider what In this House, you are still giving everything you can to the best of knowledge, because if your Members are already aware by intervening calls or by word donations that this Freedom Party is involved in the top-level cowardry, I am all the more surprised that you are refusing to discuss the investigation committee that you do not want to discuss it, do not want to investigate the fact that your Freedom Party and your top representatives – your top representatives, Mr Haigermoser – are obviously involved in the greatest ladder of this republic in the communication office. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Is this a threat? Do you want to threaten me? I'll tell you what I think! I'm not going to be told what I'm allowed to say here!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Prezensor!]] You have the opportunity to comment on the subject of the Committee of Inquiry again today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (a.k.a. Oils a cell phone holding) Oils, phone! Enjoy your meal and thank you for choosing Burger King. Telephone!]] You have the opportunity, Mr Westenthaler, to take seriously what your "simple party member" from Carinthia, namely to conduct an investigation committee here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe you should stop! Nobody listens to you!]] But one thing I'm telling you: With the nonchalance that you want to go beyond that your party is involved in the biggest of the top cowards, you will not come through the next few weeks, Mr. Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18894	The next Mrs Petrovic has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e18921	Mr President. Members of the Austrian Federal Government! High house! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs Colleague, take your tip!]] [[Abg. Achatz: Take your tipple with you!]] For the previous Genossin debate, I think very instinctively only the word "sufferers". I think it is very good that Minister Molterer, in particular, hears this debate – perhaps this representation is also a coincidence – and I also note that I have the impression – I can of course be wrong – that Mr Klubobmann Khol does not feel very comfortable with his coalition partner in this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Khol bows to Abg in a demonstrationally smiling way. Ing. Westenthaler and talk to this one.]] But I have to say: They have incubated this themselves, and it would probably be best for this House and for this country if we were to extinguish this soup in the form of an investigation committee. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just no pity!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the matter of human rights, of course, the central issue is: How much freedom do people in this country have to express themselves, to articulate their opinion, to have a different opinion than the rulers to be able to stand up for it everywhere, to be able to write it without fear of having to suffer disadvantages? There is indeed a long development in this country that does not grant this right to some people, and there is this practice to collect data, information about people whose opinion you have of the government parties, especially of the Freedom Party, is not pleasant to have this practice of collecting data, dossiers in peat. You might need them one day. This pressure, this necessity, is, in any case, when it comes to top organs and when this material is actually collected to use it – for example, against an interior minister who apparently was not used to parts of his own department, like Caspar Einm – a very serious offence. And since the threat of punishment for this offence is up to ten years of imprisonment, all these acts, in any case as far as they concern supreme organs, are not limited. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] That is, if the publication of small-scale services may also have played a role in considering its own criminality, it may no longer be available in relation to the research on artists, but it is given in relation to former government members, and I think – and it is important for me to say this from this debate – it will be to determine whether there was a pressure against top-level organs by collecting data by subscribing drug offences or supporting non-lawful actions. This is criminally relevant, but some do not seem to be fully aware of the scope of this offence. That is why I will also draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior to this situation of non-restriction, so that we can at least be sure here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] But also the material that is available here, and also what you have previously tried with colleague Haidlmayr, illustrates these methods very clearly. It is being torn out of an incident of some kind, something, perhaps a sentence from an act, in a situation where the accusations are against you, since a former liberal official has unsealed: Yes, I also participated in the unlawful collection of data, and there were others who did so. Then there is the question – and therefore, Dr. Khol, you are wrong; it is not just about criminal responsibility at all; it is an aspect, and it concerns those who may have been involved in the data register without the appropriate authorisation and took out the data; but there is a completely different point, which must not be relevant to criminal law, but it is politically relevant at least –: Why did they do that? Why? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Instigation!]] If it is a clear instigation, it would probably also be relevant to criminal law. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I meant that!]] But we have to clarify: What was the intention? Did you put data on stock here, for example, to "shoot" a certain person – under quotation marks – in a campaign? Perhaps people have also acted in advance in obedience, perhaps to secure the goodwill of certain party members. That's what we need to clarify. I can't assume that some police are starting to collect data on their own, just about a few green Members, a few SPÖ delegates, a few liberals, a few artists, journalists. I can't assume that they're just doing this for themselves, like a hobby, but this behavior has a very clear political sender: This has happened in the interests of the Freedom Party. Who were the commissioners? – This question has to be clarified here – beyond criminal responsibility. As long as these accusations are in the room, we will not return to normal work in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You're signing it all unread!]] The fact that all of this has to do with the human rights situation goes back a long time ago. In fact, the evidence that the law has been broken here, always in a political intention, is really accessible from the protocols of this House, for example, if, at the time, Parliamentary Dr. Haider, in his role as MP, has said in connection with the investigations following the murders of Oberwart that, unlike public claims in the security device, there are certain evidences that have just been concealed by the competent minister. – Jörg Haider on 23. ==References== What did the honourable Member Haider have for evidence from the security device that the Minister did not bring to the public? Or: It has always been assumed – also at the address of letter bomb victims such as Col. Stoisits – that they were themselves who were ultimately in a dark circle with the perpetrators. It has been said here again and again – it was MP Stadler, who has been particularly prominent here – that there was Konnexe here. Stadler did not even frighten it back, even against university lecturer Dr. Gombocz. It seems that people have been blackened on the basis of internal police data that were not accessible to the public, in a very specific political intention: to drive the nebulas. And if someone like Mr Pretterebner, who has been sitting in Parliament for a while for you, the liberals, writes in his postiles at that time, that the trail points to the left and that the letter bomb causa is located in the green environment, I ask you: What happened? – These were the same methods of data abuse at the time, and the purpose was quite clear: to instrumentalize them against political opponents, even in a shameless and abusive way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call for the call.]] Yeah, that's incredible, and that's why it needs to be clarified. And it went on that way. ==References====External links==* Official website In May 1995, the SP members of Bruni Fuchs and their places of residence were given statements. My question: Where? I do not assume that Mr Graf has kept watch in certain places and raised it himself. My question: Which file registers, which materials is that? Or: Press release of the Freeman, Haider, 5. May 1995: Why did the EBT find out in the security office? Again based on files and data material. And that still isn't enough for you for an investigation committee? – It is quite obvious that security police data have been collected, collected and used against politically non-opportunistic people. Already! And you keep doing that. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this has a much more intensive relationship with human rights, with the part that we also have to expect from European vigilance. Once again, the question of the rights of migrants, of refugees. Again and again, it was the Freedom Party, which has very probably come into a certain dark circle or has resorted to acts and statements that are illegal to human rights. From the beginning, that's what's going on. If you always reject a connex with the accusation of "right-wing" so violently from the liberals, I will ask you in every way the relevant questions. It was then, in January 1993, the liberals who launched a popular desire against foreigners. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: For Austria! For domestics!]] - Yes, yes. That read at the time, but in clearly right-wing postilles it was then called – I quote the AFP –: Let's go. [[The speaker keeps an issue of the magazine "AFP" with the headline "We goin".]] We're taking this politically. – No connex between you and the far right? Were these not actions? – I can tell you that all those who have committed themselves to refugees and foreigners have felt this: initially only in threat letters, but finally from December 1993 on also in waves of letter bombs. You can't challenge this connex, it's black on white. Or: At the time, there were also words in far-right writings about immigration, asylum, and the popular desire at that time, about which you were so outraged a few days ago. [[The speaker holds an issue of the magazine "Huttenbriefe".]] I quote: Since the chairman of the Freedom Party of Austria has put an ultimatum in the government to meet the minimum requirements for reducing the flow of asylum – I am leaving a half-spray now – fire is on the roof! [[Abg. Großruck: Read the whole thing!]] [[Further calls.]] I would like to read to you the whole sentence: Since the chairman of the Freedom Party of Austria has put an ultimatum in the government to meet the minimum requirements for reducing the flow of asylum, the FPÖ will, in the other case, make an effort to dissociate all asylum seekers, fire is on the roof! - Quote. And then, in fact, bombs came! That was a real connex, and you can't turn it off. This has to do with human rights, and you do not stop! That didn't stop in 1993. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Do you know what you're talking about?]] I read in the tomorrow edition of "NEWS" the words of the simple party member who says after the Styrian election: Yes, we will have to put on these issues again! – And we have a Vienna campaigner who goes out and enters alien boards with questionable pretexts. He makes "security checks" there – and may thus cover human trafficking practices. [[Abg. Großruck: Why do you know that?- Oh, my God!]] That is to say, he is contributing to the suppression of human rights, in the most blatant way in which it can only be imagined. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: For a psychologist you are an interesting topic!]] Please log this: I'm an interesting case for a psychologist. – That's exactly Nazi methods! These are Nazi methods! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Lively contradiction with the liberals.]] [[Calls: Unbelievable]] [[Further ongoing calls to the liberals.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] If someone promises you a very harsh criticism of your head, then you will come up with allegations like that this person is not mentally healthy or, as with regard to my colleague Pilz, he has taken something; this has been said several times. Dr. Khol! These are Nazi methods, and if the rule of law is worth something to you, then try to stop it in this House! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Take this back! Take it back immediately!]] I don't stop going there. 1993 was your popular desire, and the terrible acts against foreigners and foreigners, and also against those who were and are in solidarity with them, are not torn off. Or also a right-wing postille: [[Keeping a magazine high again]] "The facts" – the couple Rosenkranz should be known to you. The following can be found in this, and this is colported as a sentence of the road that you stop so, in relation to the action "Nearly in need": If the last jugo is dead, there is no more neighbors in need! – That’s how you read it, and the migrants, the aid organizations, who have got to feel it. And what does it say here? There are precisely these well-known prejudices and these feelings of envy, if it is said: Almost none of them – I emphasize: they – will return to their homeland. You've got everything here. Everyone has his car, TV and gradually the same apartments as us. - That's terrifying! And here's what it says: Who are the future Vienna? Children and young people who are not raised and who are left unattended for twelve hours a day, like the squats on the street, who do not experience education, neither their parents nor ours, and who in numerous clubs and brothels get the last cut to bandits, thieves and blackmailers. This is the political environment! [[Abg. Gaugg: Who?]] That's the political seed! [[Abg. May. Trattner: From you!]] These are right-wing postiles that cheered your people's desire: Finally! The foreign people's desire is here! – But there is "no connex" to you. Or am I just reading these lines like that? Is that also a case for the psychologist? Or how can this be interpreted? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Take this back! You think you can allow anything!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are many reasons why, in view of the announcement to start the Vienna election campaign again under this sign, you will be quick to accept the human rights issue before another injustice occurs. And I conclude with a sentence given by Dr. Haider himself in the context of an election campaign. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Read the report of the "three wise"!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This is a sentence that may not have read the "three wise men", but which is also found in the confession letters to the letter bombs. It says: We have not successfully waged the Turkish wars hundreds of years ago to bring about a change on our own. - Quote. This is the classical provocation of the "external danger" that you have documented – under quotation marks. Dr. Khol! If, despite all these signs, you see no reason to agree on the one hand to Mr Posch's human rights request and, on the other hand, to initiate an investigation into the adversities, there is, as I believe, a serious danger to the rule of law in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19298	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. I would like to say – even if time has already advanced – that: We still have a lot ahead of us today, and I think it is an opportunity to think about how we carry out this linguistically, not just organizationally. Mrs Petrovic! We were at your speech several times very hard at the border of an order call. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Tell Mrs Petrovic, Mr President! I can't believe what they're doing!]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] We have undertaken to deal with calls of order very sparingly. It's not supposed to be that we give a call for order every second word. But I would ask everyone, on the basis of this speech, to exercise more restraint in the individual speeches in the future! [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: (in the direction of Parliament stenographers) Have you logged "Stalinism"? I just heard!]] [[Further calls.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Please, Mr Westenthaler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19376	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am sure that Mrs Petrovic's very incredible statements and statements – as well as others from today's meeting – will be the theme of the next presidential meeting. The President-in-Office of the Council has already noted this. I remember an experience in connection with the comments made by Mr Oellinger, Mr Petrovic, Mr Pilz and others, also in connection with the fact that the Socialist Group is always considering its colleagues from the Green Group with thunderous applause. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We'll still be allowed to clap!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Listen to what I remember! I spent a year in Vienna City Council. I was selected in 1991 and in 1992 the following situation occurred in the Vienna municipal council under the leadership of Mayor Zilk and Deputy Mayor Hans Mayr, a Doyen of Social Democracy. It was 4:00 in the morning. The Member of the Green Jean Margulies gave a speech, and he complained that he was being mistreated by the Social Democrats. ==References====External links== On 3 March 1992 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States Jean Margulies of the Green Alternatives, at the end of a long day in the Vienna City Parliament at about four o'clock in the early part of the day, had complained to Hans Mayr that he could not suffer. He doesn't understand, Margulies. The alternative for love and recognition immediately received an answer. I can explain this to you, the unnecessarily Social Democratic City Father Hans Mayr has been donating to the plenary, and he then says literally: If you were politically more successful in your youth, I would be in Siberia today. – Quote Hans Mayr. [[Abg. May. Worm: So what? What are you doing?- Oh, my God!]] Mayr thus played on the communist activity and past of Jean Margulies as a functionary, as a communist official. At that time, Jean Margulies, as a Communist official in the same organization, had a fellow player on his side, and this competitor was called Karl Oellinger. [[Oh-and-oh-rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Oellinger, Mrs Petrovic – especially after your remarks today – and Mr Pilz! Mr President, Mr Fischer! Mr Pilz has this House, the Bureau of this House – Mr President Fischer, I am looking at you here now – has compared this National Council and its Bureau here with the terrorist system of Mr Milošević – but you have not been able to bring this immense attack on this democratic institution, on this Parliament's barriers! I think this is a great thing, Mr President Fischer, that you have still not said anything about it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Lively contradiction at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Awesome!]] It's completely clear: It's the way the greens do. It's method! And this method, which takes place here, is a method that has a goal: the weakening of the state, its institutions and its order, but we as democrats will never allow it. [[Abg. Edlinger: ridiculous!]] I can guarantee you that too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There is here in the house the submission “Milošević methods”, there is a former club woman named Petrovic who accuses us of “Nazi methods”, as well as the former KPÖ functional oillinger, whom I have already quoted before, and the Green-Deputy Pilz, who, in interviews on his attitude to the state, says the following – quote from the magazine “Green” –: What does the utopia of a functioning society look like for you?, fungus is asked. And Pilz answers: It looks like there's no state, it's the first one, because this instrument of violence can't be there any more! This is what this honourable Member says, who is sitting here in this House. And now it's gonna be interesting. Then he becomes a police officer, asked about his attitude to the police, and today he is very active again when it comes to defaming a professional group in Bausch and Arch. It's good to know the background. Mr Pilz – also in this magazine – answers the question of his attitude to the police and why the police are his hostile image: I think it's very important that there's a police disarmament. I think this is a very central requirement. Why does every Kiberer have to have a crack? – Literally quote. In "All Week" number 28/1989 mushroom gives an incentive. He calls for police officers to wear uniformly sewn name signs in order to better experience them. That is the attitude of Mr Pilz to the executive! And if you know this attitude, you have to be very careful when you go out here and down a whole profession, suspect of a peak scandal, but don't put any proof of it on the table. This is the true scandal, Mr Pilz, that you cannot put proof on the table! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But it goes even further if you analyze Mr Pilz here a little bit. Because you so applaud him from the SPÖ, I would like to point out that Mr Pilz also has a story within the SPÖ. He became too radical at the SPÖ in his student age and was excluded from the Association of Socialist Students of Austria for "left-wing aberration". [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate call of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] ==References====External links== October 1992 — I quote — the following: Among his opponents, Pilz is hidden as a Styrian psychofascist, as after his exclusion from the VSSTÖ in 1977, Pilz found a new political home in the "Revolutionary Marxists" group. - Quote. [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] That's great! And this guy wants to tell us what to do with the police? – No, I do not take that seriously, Mr Pilz. You do not have the right at all to make yourself here with such a story and to give appropriate advice and advice! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: There's the Burschen of Mr. Graf better!]] If you take all this, if you analyze all of this, for example, considering the comparisons of Mr Pilz, such as how he compares this House to the Milošević regime, if you take into account his attitudes, which he gives of himself, Mr Pilz, quoted by the "profile" as a "psychofascist", who has a colleague Ollinger and a colleague Petrovic, who speaks of "Nazi methods" – all this together shows me only... [[Abg. Edlinger: He didn't say that! You'll get a call after another!]] Or if one sees Mr Ollinger standing here and pursues what abject hatred he hates people of other political attitudes, if one looks at this exactly, then you can only be warned, Mr President! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Diffaming! You've got the water up to your neck!]] Political hatred as the only category of discussion must not be your only driving force. If that were the only driving force, it would lead to a fatal political development that has already led to chaos several times, to a development that we do not want. You do not have the right, here people who have a political attitude other than you, to agree on the legitimacy of democracy policy, and you do not have the right to make even a single Member of this House disdainful of democracy, because everyone here in this House has made his contribution to democracy or has done it with his work that he is doing here. [[Abg. Edlinger: He's already got that!]] Therefore, you do not have the right to defame people in this house! I say this very clearly to you, Mr Oellinger, Mrs Petrovic and Mr Pilz: After these scandalous trips, which you have done here today, I am also very glad that you have not been more successful in your youth and are not even today, but are less successful than others. Otherwise, a lot of people would have to think about themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19575	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19599	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With much love, Mr Westenthaler, I will try to make the actual correction to your contribution, which has been disputing by contradictions and false claims. They claimed that I was in a Communist organization in 1992 together with Member Jean Margulies. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say that!]] They claimed that I was a Communist minister of the CCP and a Communist organization. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: At the union!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the GE, the union unit? Are you still a functional there?]] Both claims are false and do not correspond to the facts! I was not a member of a Communist organization, nor was I the CCP. [[New calls to the liberals.]] However, I would like to say to you that Mr President-in-Office of the Council Jean Margulies, at the time he had this dispute with Mr Mayr, was also not a member of a Communist organization because he left the Communist Party and movement in 1968, for conscience and political reasons, for which you will probably always lack insight. [[Abg. Haigermoser: During the period of Stalinism he has found a home! In Stalinist times, he carried the whole thing!]] He's made a development, but you're...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19675	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to interrupt you. They are familiar with the provisions on actual corrections. These serve not to argue, but only to correct. (Applause from the Greens and the SPÖ for the Abg. Oils.) The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19716	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are rare moments in this House in which Members of the Westenthaler sunk completely in thought before themselves. Then he looks strangely relaxed, and often his face is flattered by a boyish smile. One sometimes sees what this face might look like when the opposition, in which criticism of the Freedom Party would not again and again be so horribly distorted. Mr Westenthaler! At times, don't think about oillingers in this plenary, not martulies, not cast builders, not edellingers, not me, but think of something beautiful! To flowers, to a deer, to a native deer, to something beautiful! [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Relax! You need this relaxation, because in the next weeks and months there will be a lot more going on to you; and you know that much better than we do. If someone knows what's going to happen to him and what's going to be a little tense again, then it's not us, but you, Mr. Westenthaler, as the former head of the "Combo", the "Communication Bureau". – I can't believe it means that's your invention. - Good. - "Combo". [[Abg. Edlinger: What did that mean?]] For your accusation of the diffamation of the Austrian executive, there is only one thing here: Yes, it is decent, improbable Austrian police officers who are currently carrying a large part of the investigation work against the Freedom Party, and it is very, very important to protect these officials from all diffamation and to enable them to do unimpeded, clean and serious work. What applies to journalists, which applies to politicians, will also apply to officials of the executive. – I can already imagine that a few years ago you have not really considered that once you could be from the FPÖ against which you are being determined. It must be a strange feeling for a party that has always spoken of law and order, if suddenly a special commission determines, not against any, but in a very specific direction, and it has three letters: FPÖ – and no others. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Westenthaler! Of course, you can stop the top coward, Hans Mayr criticized at a municipal council meeting of Jean Margulies just ten years ago. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's going to be true! I could tell you how many times Hans Mayr criticized me, and he hasn't always been very quiet! Only: Why this is supposed to apologise for the Freedom Party, withdraws from my capacity. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: He's offended! Hans Mayr didn't even scream with Westenthaler!]] However, Hans Mayr – as Mr Edlinger has already been right – never needed to go to Westenthaler's local council at that time, because you have also responded to authorities a little more sensitive and reticent than Members of our group at the time. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now to my very youthful proposal to disarm the Austrian police. I say quite honestly to you that the idea of a heavily armed official, Kreissl or Binder, or many others, is not entirely memoryful of me. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Edellinger.]] If officials abuse their access to the police computer in such a way, this is not an argument for me to push a stormgun into their hands. But I would like once again to discuss the question of where the Austrian executive needs more equipment, more support and better structures, at once very serious and in another place with you, perhaps in the Committee on the Interior. One thing is certain: If you ask the officials, then it becomes clear that the lack of stormguns has so far not been the main problem of the Austrian and the Vienna executives. But perhaps you will see from the liberals with your ideas regarding a strong state and the role of the press and opposition in this matter the question of armament and intimidation slightly different than we do. Allow me to make a little comment on the subject of "successful". Of course, it may happen again and again that in the zeal of the verbal struggle one unseals the wrong old plate. Mr Westenthaler! Since a few days it has not happened particularly if you go out here and keep us in a lack of electoral success. Something has happened in the last few days, and it even announces a lot more! Why, Mr Westenthaler, is what has always been said on your old record "the voters are running from the SPÖ and others"? Why does this sound quite different on the new record? That's what it is: People are running – not just on election days – in crowds, to tens of thousands, to the liberals of them! Why are the elections exclusively for you pay days, and why do you know today which Obolus will most likely have to pay to voters at the beginning of December and much more at the Vienna elections? There are good reasons that election days are now and in the future pay days for you. You have broken your two most important political promises. First: The political promise of representing the so-called little people in their social concerns with all the consequence has broken you in such a convincing way in the last days, weeks and months, so that you no longer have a chance to recover those people you first said: Trust us! A party, a promise. We're here for you! And, and, and so. – The voters have understood: Promise – broken. A Jörg, a word. – This message has arrived. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You are the great Seer!]] The second message has also arrived. They were the party that said we fight not only for the interests of the "little people", but we also fight against abuse of power, against the abuse of power of the reds and against the abuse of power of the blacks. – I don’t know any reds or blacks who could ever imagine that power can be misused to such an extent and with such insolence as you and your officials in the topslaughter! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You do not forget this either, and I believe, Mr Westenthaler, that you are now much more in plenary sittings than before, because you are less and less interested in going to the street. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Something's changed. I, Mr Westenthaler, feel puddled on the street among the so-called little people. I am telling them about green politics, green initiatives and also green successes against abuse of power. And then people ask me: What about the Freedom Party? – And that’s the only question that really answers itself. I'll finish. Ladies and gentlemen around Mr Westenthaler! You still live on a free foot, you are still on a free foot. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You'll see how far you're still humpling with that! – Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19853	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e19875	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mathematics is, I think, not your strength, my colleague Pilz, because if I look into the plenary, I'll say: The FPÖ has 52 mandates. How many do you have: ten or eleven? How many do you have? You're not so good at counting, are you? [[Call the Greens:14!]] We have about quadruple mandates. So if you're worried, you'd better worry about the greens. But I think you're worried about yourself anyway. You must have a very bad conscience, for Michael Sika writes in his book: Some political careers in Austria would not have been there or had been finished, one could have proved several suspicions as well. No one has an interest in defusing East and West agents, which proves to him that they are still very active in Vienna. By the way, he also mentions the Green Peter Pilz, in the context of the scientist Peter Fleißner, who was once in the Stasi suspicion, but against which investigations as well as Peter Pilz themselves were made and about the mushroom to Alexander [[Oh, call the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Security Director!]] Van der Bellen came and was able to do his armor studies. What are your concerns? [[Abg. May. Kogler: What are you worried about?]] What are you worried about? You really must have an extremely bad conscience! [[Abg. Oillinger: What do you want to say with it?]] What do you believe about the Freedom Party in connection with the letter bombs?- Oh, my God! Every one of us has been filtered through. There each of us sat inside with a quiet conscience, because it wasn't. But you don't have a quiet conscience anymore! You live in fear all the time! They are therefore constantly living in fear – and I have to say this to the Green Group – because there are three Green Members sitting here calling for the breaking of the law. [[Abg. Ollinger laughs.]] You, Mr Oellinger, also belong to this. You can laugh quietly! ==References====External links==* Official website August 1992 – I quote –: "Military and violence are not an appropriate means for me to resolve international and national conflicts. The Federal Army is an institution that leads to blind obedience and incorruption. I'm convinced it's been a long time to abolish the federal army. As long as this does not happen, people who refuse to comply are persecuted and imprisoned. I declare my solidarity with those who are imprisoned for their political, religious and ethical convictions." - Quote. [[Bravo reputation and detonatative acclaim in the greens]] You can calmly praise! And that's what it says: "I therefore call for the termination of all proceedings against military fatal objectors and for the removal of all criminal provisions from the Military Penal and Civil Service Act." - Quote. [[Bravo-Rufe and more recent demostratetive appeal to the Greens.]] That's right for you! It's only a shame that the people outside don't know your attitude. But we will communicate this and will make this passage out of my speech – with your applause! – also bring the Austrian population closer to get to know your attitude once so that your environmental smile is once demasked, because you are not an environmental party, but you come from communist, Marxist movements that also love RAF terrorists. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] It also says that you are aware of the fact that this request, of course,... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of the Greens) I am excited whether you clap at the last sentence!]] There it says: "I am also aware that this is a call for disobedience to laws within the meaning of § 281 StGB." [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where's the applause?]] This call was also made in the "Worker's News" of the 3rd century. In September 1991, it was published and signed by 245 people, and among these 245 people who have signed it, are also representatives of the Green Communist Group who are sitting here today in the House who decide on laws here, but on the other hand are calling for a breach of law. What are you doing now? [[Abg. Ollinger: This is a bold construction!]] That's not "chew," it's fact! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These three Members, who naturally have to have an extremely bad conscience, are Mrs Petrovic – you have also signed it, or have you not? – Mr. Dr. Peter Pilzund Karl Ollinger. There are three Members sitting here who call for a breach of law, but who on the other hand feel able to decide on laws here in the House. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's against our way again! I wasn't a parliamentarian at the time!]] I think you should take the consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20056	On the basis of an actual correction, Mrs Dr. Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20113	I am actually correcting the previous speaker in two points. On the one hand, pointing to the entire Green Group and also appealing to me personally, he meant that we came from Stalinist or Marxist organizations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, he didn't say that!]] I'm actually correcting: I come from the Catholic boy and from the ÖVP – and I deeply regret this, and only the latter. Secondly, With regard to my call to refuse a military order on a certain point, namely to stand against refugees at the Austrian external border in the East, I note: I signed this call for a violation of the law in the summer of 1990, signed in writing, was not immune at the time and was charged with it. There was a procedure in which I was given full meaning and which, because of my legal argument that this command was contrary to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, was legally discontinued. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Rechtsbruch is this! Call for a breach of law! Call to anarchy!]] And a police action in the Burgenland has ended with a full condemnation of the Republic of Austria before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20168	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The provisions of the actual correction provide that, on the one hand, what was wrong, and on the other hand, it is said how it is right.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20184	It will be very possible that I will actually correct this if I am accused of a delicate behavior, that I say that it was not a delicate behavior. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Talk time!]] This has been legally established by both the Constitutional Court and an ordinary criminal court.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20242	Mr Kostelka, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20263	Mr Westenthaler! Mr Trattner! Your words should not, for good reasons, be the last to speak on this item on the agenda, because, and I would remind you, the human rights report is on the agenda and the debate on the human rights report has also referred to the fundamental right to respect for privacy; [[Abg. Ing. Trattner: You must always have the last word! You're the defender of the Greens?- Oh, my God!]] Article 8 MRK. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you say about a parliamentarian comparing this house with the Milošević regime?]] In this debate, of course, the language has also come to the recent scandal of the systematic abuse of security data in the interest of a party, through funding from a party, whereby the perpetrators are largely from a party and the political purpose is foreseeable. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the Milošević comparison?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How do you know all this?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a political criminal dictatorship!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context – and this is why I have once again spoken – you have offered a demonstration object of your political attitude. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Kostelka! Distance yourself from the Milošević accusation! The President has not yet understood this. Do you defend that?]] There is no question that, in this context, it has become clear that there are very different political views between the Green Group and the Socialist Group, particularly in student and youth days, which have been the subject of heated debates. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A sentence on the Milošević comparison!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, what Trattner and Westenthal have done is demasked. [[Abg. May. Trattner: It hurt you!]] They have been deeply involved in the file on it, and have started to read facts that happened five years ago, ten years ago, twelve years ago, 15 years ago. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Whoever can read!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's your method, and in this context you only got hold of those files that you can quote in the public. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the Milošević comparison?]] And we accuse you – there's more to it –: The only goal in this context is to get people done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is your method!]] You are doing this, Mr Westenthaler, Mr Trattner, with the intention of saving the arguments to go to the FPÖ hospital scandal. Your motto is: Get her ready, the critics, put her down! And you do not care whether a court case has been brought in connection with this allegation, which, as Mrs Petrovic said, led to an absolute acquittal. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you defending this?]] It is not a question of dealing with arguments. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The SPÖ!]] What you're doing is humane! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: SPÖ defends lawbreak!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a free method of dealing with critics in the way that they are tried to kill them. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No sentence for Milošević comparison! There's no distance!]] If there is a confirmation of your nervousness, but also of your complicity in the top coward, then it is your behavior. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the Milošević comparison?]] Mr Westenthaler, Mr Trattner, you have demasked yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20534	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20558	Mr Trattner here claimed that the Green MEPs came from communist and Marxist organizations. – With this I can feel consoled. I'm actually correcting: My first political activity was in the organization of the nuclear opponents and the popular desire against Hainburg. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Say a sentence on the Milošević comparison!]] My motive to go into politics – should you still want to know – was to come to the municipal council of the Graz Greens to get Götz to resign. And so did it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20594	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 301 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. [[In the SPÖ series, several Members rise mistakenly from the squares, but they sit right back on it.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Call the Freeman – towards SPÖ –:All chaos!]] – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 301 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this in order to be a sign of approval. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Without Gusenbauer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer's already in bed!]] – This is also the majority and thus adopted. (E 37.) 3rd. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (280 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Constitution Act and adopting a Federal Law on the Environment Senate (USG 2000) (333 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20677	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. The first speaker to speak was Mr Heinzl. I ask him to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20703	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of the amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act at the beginning of July this year by the FPÖ/ÖVP coalition, the environmental standards in Austria were clearly deteriorated. It is all the more important, as I believe, that an independent bi-tinct is used at federal level in the environmental impact assessment process. The independent state of the environment, which was established at the federal level in 1993, has clearly proved itself from a social democratic point of view. That this remains the case is important for several reasons. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, it would be unnecessary to delay a non-reorder of the EIA-procedure by overburdening the courts of public law. This is all the worse than the new regulations of the EIA law, by worsening civil rights, will lead to unnecessary small wars between the parties in EIA procedures. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen – and I think this is particularly important based on our experience in Lower Austria – a decision by the federal authority subordinate to the state government is simply necessary. Without an independent environment senate, which checks the action of the first-instant decision-makers in the sphere of influence of the head of state, for example, the people in the central area of St. Pölten would suffer in the very near future from the ventilation of a giant pig. Further examples in Lower Austria have shown that the Land authorities are not always capable – or, as I think, not always willing – of suspending a mandatory environmental impact assessment, for example, partygoers of the head of state Pröll. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] The suffering, ladies and gentlemen, is then the affected population, or are the affected citizens who have the wrong to live next to such a "gross pigry". Ladies and gentlemen! The case of pig breeding Enenfellner in Stössing in Lower Austria is a good bad example. Mr Entenfellner can be pleased that his farmers' federal friends in the National Council have brought the EIA law into its current valid version, so that his farm friends in the Lower Austrian state government, because of Mr Entenfellner, no longer need to have a bad conscience. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] The concentration of decision-making competence in the EIA procedure at the country level, ladies and gentlemen, has the small side of the packaging and is as opposed as a purely centralization of the entire process at the federal level. What is in fact missing in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is a federal authority which can be called up by the competent national authorities in the event of the removal or non-compliance with a necessary environmental impact assessment and which then initiates it on its own initiative for an EIA. We therefore reject a change in the tasks of the Environment Senate. It cannot be that nine different standards can be set on interregional issues such as environmental protection. If federalist measures are already being put in place in the areas of environmental protection and plant law, I think it is more sensible to strengthen the rights of the municipalities in the EIA procedure. Finally, the communities, ladies and gentlemen, have to deal with the immediate impact of large projects over long periods of time. A positive example of responsible handling of the environment is the state capital of Lower Austria, the city of St. Pölten, that city that has vehemently set itself against the mass animal husbandry that I have already mentioned and has finally received justice from the environment senate. Ladies and gentlemen! As a thanks for this commitment in the environmental sector, the city of St. Pölten only a few days ago awarded a special prize of the "Climate 2000". In the award ceremony, Mr Molterer, Federal Minister, thanked the city for its exemplary commitment to agriculture and climate protection. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the way we should go, not the creation of new authorities at national level, all the more so than the last revision of the EIA legislation by FPÖ and ÖVP shamelessly cut civil rights. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it is said that the SPÖ will support the continued existence of the independent environmental senate at the federal level, even though the legal framework of its action was greatly limited by the current demolition of the EIA law by the blue-black single party.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20782	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20803	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl obviously did not speak at the last item on the agenda, in the human rights report. There was already a practice in building up the government coalition. Now he has a consensus matter – and the one we are talking about under this item on the agenda – is, as I believe, such a one; in any case, this comes out of the Committee – these supplements are just continuing. Mr Heinzl, I do not agree. I note that this proposal is about ensuring the survival of a sensible institution, a sensible institution. This Environmental Senate Act was "reasonably installed" in 1993 for a limited period of time, and this period was due to the regional administrative jurisdiction planned in the course of the state reform. An essential point of a time-limit is the end, and this would be on 31 December. ==References== The Environmental Senate is the second instance in the course of an EIA process – the first is the state government – and is an independent collegial authority. That is, the members are not bound by any instructions in the exercise of their duties. Amendments to the decisions are not possible, but probably a call from the Administrative Court, which then decides cassatoryly. No extension of the The existence of this eco-senate by this law would mean a loss of this second instance, an additional burden on the courts, an extension of the duration of the proceedings, especially in the case of investment law, and ultimately costs. That is why, as I believe, it is undisputed, an extension of this period is appropriate. There are two changes that are being made at the same time. One change is made to increase staff resources, and it is that the 20 replacement members are treated as members. The second amendment is made on the grounds of partiality. But these are details. In fact, the law that has been passed so far is a continuation by today's decision. A brief comment on the costs is given: The remunerations for the members of the Environment Senate only apply in the event of an event. That is to say, since the total number of members of the Environment Senate remains the same, it is in no way expected that it will be higher than the previous costs. Our group will, of course, agree to the extension of the validity of this provision and thus the continuation of this appropriate institution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20846	The next speaker is Mr Loos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20868	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Although, as has already been said, Mr Heinzl has tried to present this issue a little bit of a problem, it is probably not to be expected to make spectacular contributions because it is a matter of consensus. As such, I want to treat her too. As for Mrs Petrovic, who has said that she has started with the Catholic boy, I can say: I started there, too. In the meantime, I'm at the Catholic Men's Movement. [[Congratulations and bravo reputation at the ÖVP.]] By the way, I am not ashamed of being still at the Catholic Men's Movement, and as a Christian-social politician – and with that I am on the subject – I am very pleased with the creation. I am very concerned about the environment, and therefore this issue is also a very important one for me. This environment senate has proved to be successful. Why it is so important is easy to say: On the one hand, it is about environmental protection, on the other hand, it is also about people maintaining jobs and the economy flourishing accordingly. To this end, this environment senate is here: to enable a rapid process to be carried out in this problem. By adapting – and I must say this to Mr Heinzl – the EIA Act, which resulted from the implementation of the amending Directive of the Council of the European Community, has actually resulted in an extension of the catalogue with regard to environmental impact assessment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] The projects to be examined have not become fewer, but this catalogue has been extended, and it is now being carried out in more projects than before in an environmental impact assessment, and I think that is the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Let me give you an example, because first you mentioned one from Lower Austria: A large theme park is to be built in the north of Burgenland. Now that this expansion has taken place, projects in the tourism sector must also be subject to an environmental impact assessment. That was not the case before. I, who am a member of the Board of Directors of the Neusiedler See – Seewinkel National Park, attach great importance to the fact that this project is also viewed accordingly. This does not mean that it cannot be built, but environmental compatibility is to be identified. I believe that this is so right, we can agree, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the SPÖ:Exactly!]] If it were not for this environmental senate, the burden on the courts of public law would become even more severe than it is now. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who has already had to deal with the administrative or constitutional court knows how long that goes. It is really unbearable for the economy that certain projects are only due to the long The duration of the procedures cannot be carried out. However, this cannot be the long term, but it must be an accurate review – everyone sees it – and it is guaranteed by the environmental Senate. As far as the members of this Environment Senate are concerned, I would like to say the following: It is, I think, particularly positive to note that the 40 members of the Environment Senate are working on their part-time activities. This, of course, has a positive impact on the costs: There's hardly any cost. These members are, on the one hand, persons who belong to the judiciary, on the other hand, legal officials who must have at least five years of experience in their activities. From Burgenland, for example, there are two legal officials from the Nature Conservation Department. We see, of course, that particular attention is paid to environmental protection. The proposed amendment of the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the Environment Senate will have a positive impact on Austria's economic location through faster and more flexible appeal procedures. The involvement of the experts of the Environment Senate also excellently recognises the interests of environmental protection. That is why we will be happy to give our approval to these amendments.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20926	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e20948	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Trattner: I also do not come from any Marxist, communist or any organization! I'm from a Carinthian inn. My first organization was the Singgemeinschaft Unterhaus, and then came Global 2000. [[Abg. May. Kogler: "Communist drive"! In Carinthia, singing is "communist"!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] [[Call at the ÖVP:... at the church choir!]] The church choir! – I would like to continue my speech now! [[Further calls to the Greens and counter-calls at the ÖVP.]] Although we have now reached a four-party agreement on the extension of the Environmental Senate Act, it must, of course, be legitimate and it is also important to say that the EIA Act or the Novelle was in no way a glimpse of the environmental legislation in Austria – on the contrary: The criticism of this novel remains true! This must be aware of to everyone here. Originally, when the EIA law was adopted in 1993, we were actually criticizing the establishment of the environmental Senate members only working on a secondary level. The prospect has been that, in the foreseeable future, national courts should also be set up. These national courts do not exist to this day. I think that government parties such as the ÖVP, who have committed themselves very strongly to federalism, need great explanation when it comes to the question of why it is in view of the long waiting times at the Administrative Court – three years stand back! – this institution, this control body does not exist and why the countries do not have any part in jurisdiction at all. So far, you have avoided this question. I would have expected that there would be an opinion in some form, because we would not have to extend the Environmental Senate Act in this form now if it were the national courts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, We have criticised it, we have also deposited it at the Ministry of the Environment, and our amendments have been incorporated into the original proposal. The one point was that the Environmental Procuratorship should also be able to make an application in the investigation procedure, and the second point was that there was also public oral negotiations under the conditions laid down in § 67d para. 4 AVG should come. These two points were important to us. Both of these concerns have been taken into account, and that is why we also agree with this bill in this form. However, there is still a drop in advertising, with regard to the proposals made by the Environment Senate itself, namely a transparent order and an extension of the deadline: It is quite unacceptable to a judicial body and its independence if it is used only for a short period of time. This is not in the sense of the Human Rights Convention – because we have already debated it so much today. Secondly, the Environment Senate originally wanted to have a right of application for the legislative and legislative review by the Constitutional Court. This point has not been met either. For us, however, those amendments that we have proposed, which have actually been incorporated, were nevertheless a reason to agree. One last one is also addressed to colleagues Trattner: Whoever does not understand that environmental protection concerns and human rights issues are inseparably linked – and there is also the question of democracy policy – he has not understood environmental protection. Environmental protection and human rights belong together! This has become clear at the latest since the tropical wood debate in Austria. Perhaps I can remind you that under which massive protests of the environmental movement, together with the human rights movement, this label for tropical forests in Austria has been withdrawn. Whoever did not understand this really did not understand the environmental concept in its innermost core in any way. I would ask you to see and understand environmental protection and human rights as the common concern of the Greens and not to stifle on any strange arguments and to get into the meeting who in the past was with any organizations. Environmental protection and human rights are the basic pillars of a democratic society, and I would ask you to take this more into account in the future and not just to speak of the "green smile" of the Greens, because that is really diffamatory! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21043	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21065	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Environmental Senate Act has been fully described by my fellow speakers. minor changes or improvements are proposed in this proposal. I say that these improvements are useful, and I am thinking here of the right of assignment to the chambers or of the appointment of replacement members of the Senate as ordinary members. I should also like to say that, as social democrats, we are already a little proud of the fact that we were able to achieve a substantial improvement in the course of the committee negotiations: For us, it was important that all parties involved in one thing and not only the project promoters can call on the environmental Senate. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That was not possible earlier!]] ÖVP and FPÖ have seen this a little different for the time being, but we now also represent a common line in this regard, Mr Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Gell, that was not possible!]] Another point, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen: In the case of EIAs, which concern the road or rail, the Senate is not eligible as an appeal body. This is where the Minister is responsible. I think that there can be a conflict of interest, as we see in Austria in what is done in connection with the HL-AG, Mr Colleppelmüller. I think one should once take advantage of the favor of the hour to think about whether one could change that towards the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that a reasonable thing that has proved itself should be maintained. We will therefore vote in favour of this Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21114	Next item is the report by Mr Herbert Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21178	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, it is very unfortunate that, after a discussion of almost 11 hours now, we are only now coming to this very important topic of the environment. I would like to refer to Mrs Glawischnig's last speech, in which she said that the EIA Act and the EIA-Novelle are in no way to be seen here and that they must continue to be rejected from this House. I would like to point out once again that the EIA law in the novelle, as we have decided, brings considerable positive innovations, including with regard to enforcement of the procedures, and that, in the EIA procedure, all legal remedies remain in place for the proper implementation of the procedure. You can't say that often enough. There is also an acceleration here, a consultation of all citizens, and in the first procedure – that was what They have disputed – is still an independent body on the side of the County Headquarters team. I would ask that these arguments should also be taken into account when ordering the Environmental Senate in the future, because this is another positive attitude. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21214	The next item is the report by Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21236	Mr President. High house! Very soon: I am grateful that it is possible to extend the Environmental Senate unanimously until 2004. The Environmental Senate has proved itself absolutely successful as a vocational body. Of the 41 vocations pending, 35 have been completed in the Environmental Senate in a very short time, and very few have continued to the Constitutional Court of Justice. However, I would also like to say that this law has been drawn up in large parts by the members of the Environment Senate itself on the basis of practical experience and that the Committee has also made appropriate adaptations. I think this is a very good sign that this was possible. I would like to say to the criticism: One can have a different assessment of the last novel of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. That's legitimate. Mrs Glavischnig, Member of the European Parliament Heinzl: That is why the replacement member has now been made a major member, for example, because the environmental senate assumes that the new EIA will lead to more procedures, because there is an extension of the facts. – Mr Heinzl, I would like to make it clear that the Land authorities, no matter what country they are located in, do good work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21269	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 280 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report in 333 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – I see the unanimity. The draft law is therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – Again, I note the unanimity. Adopted unanimously. 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Karl Schweitzerand comrades on environmental impact assessment procedures (EIA) for an auxiliary works building of the construction nuclear power plant (CFC) Temelin in the Czech Republic and on the motion for a resolution 205/A (E) by Dr Eva Glawischnigand Comrades on the implementation of the final declaration by the delegation of all nine days of land to prevent nuclear power stations close to the border, dated 9 May. On 1 May 2000 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to: on the motion for a resolution 206/A (E) by Mrs Dr Eva Glawischnigand Comrades on the final offensive against the construction of the Temelin nuclear power station (334 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21344	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21372	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have been dealing with Temelin several times in recent months, and I am pleased to note that since our last debate, the Federal Government has shown a little more initiative in this area. Even if Temelin has been activated in recent weeks, the fight against Temelin must continue. I was at a rally on the border in Wolowitz on Friday. The border station was occupied by activists for over a week. There were more than 5,000 people there, and I can tell you that it is really a real concern for the people there that we continue to fight Temelin in politics together and take action against Temelin, that we do not give up and that the Federal Government is also doing everything possible to prevent Temelin in any way. I also believe that we owe this to the local people and also to the citizens of our country, even though there has already been an activation, to continue to be active. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just a little comment on the edge: On the part of the Federal Government, only one quarter of an hour of transport minister Schmid was there, and that only a few hours before the rally began. I think it would really be a very positive signal, Mr Environment Minister, if you would go personally to Wolowitz, because it is very important for local people to get the support repeatedly signaled by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Murauer:... was there before you!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... debated and decided in the Committee on the Environment!]] Don't wake up, Mr. Schweitzer. You can also drive to Wolowitz once! That's not a problem! As you know, I really tried to move the committee, and I think it was a good split that a few people were on the spot and a few people in the committee decided on the four-party request. This is a legitimate division. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann:... as a deputy obsessor!]] So I don't understand why you're so evocative about this, but you can certainly explain it to us afterwards. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore also think it is all the more important that the decisions that we have already taken in this House several times are actually implemented. EU accession negotiations with the Czech Republic shall not conclude the energy chapter unless Temelin complies with the European safety standard. But that it will ever correspond to that, I personally consider extremely questionable. I am very glad that the joint proposal of § 13 of the Energy Liberalization Act is more or less prejudiced. I am also very glad that it mentions for the first time concrete negotiations on an exit from Temelin, especially since there have always been certain reservations on the part of the government in this regard. This massive economic pressure is one of the main reasons for Temelin's commissioning: In order to complete Temelin, 40 billion schillings of loans had to be received from the Czech Republic, and because of this massive pressure one now simply keeps the strategy of bringing Temelin to the network, even if one already knows that it will be a loss business. For Austria too, I think it would be a useful strategy to offer exit aid, because simply the follow-up costs that would cause a possible accident in Temelin would be enormously high for us – I am saving you the detailed figures in view of the late hour. I believe that if there are no concrete offers for an exit aid from Austria, there will never be a chance to move in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! You can be sure: I and my group will be very careful to ensure that all the decisions we have taken in this House at Temelin in the last few weeks and months are actually executed by the Federal Government – that all of this is carried out and really happens – and that they do not just remain empty words and papers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21448	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21469	Mr President. Federal Minister! Fact is – and we don't get over it anymore –: Temelin's in operation. If we are balancing today, we must say: We have not been able to convince those responsible in the Czech Republic that Temelin is unsafe and therefore poses a danger to the Czech population and to all neighbouring people. We have not been able to inform the responsible person that Temelin is also uneconomic and that the electricity from Temelin after accession to the European Union will probably not be located on the liberalised electricity market, because subsidies are no longer possible. There is also an opportunity for me today to ask the question, Mr Sima: Why have we not been convincing enough at our negotiating partners? What were the real causes? – There is a need to go a little further and look at the efforts of each party over a longer period of time. Mrs Prammer! You know that you are particularly at the centre of these considerations, because you already have 7th. Reported on October 1998 that the balance sheet of Austria's anti-atomic policy in the context of the EU Presidency would have been extremely positive. [[Abg. May. Prammer: I know!]] It has succeeded in establishing safety standards for nuclear installations for the accession negotiations. – What were the standards of security you have laid down, Mrs Prammer? [[Abg. Achatz: They don't exist to this day! Not until today!]] You can come out today and explain what has been so successfully implemented by you at the time and what these safety standards that the EU is looking for today have been looking forward to with you at that time! [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is also a human right!]] ==References== In December 1998, Mrs Prammer, a "positive nuclear policy annual report". By the way, this was the time Mochovce went into operation. That's where you pulled your "positive anti-CFC policy balance" – I quote –: Consumer protection minister Barbara Prammer was completely satisfied on Monday in a press conference on the annual report on nuclear policy. Austria has achieved much in the end of the year. – Please come out and tell me what you have achieved with regard to temelin! ==References== You have already said a different word on March 1999: You should not go with the raised pointing finger on Prague. – That was the time when there were relatively many requests from us that I will come back to. You said at the time that you would have energy concepts developed that would lead to non-operating of the power plant. [[Abg. May. Prammer: There are!]] – What about these concepts? [[Abg. May. Prammer: There are!]] How were they implemented in your government, Mrs. Prammer? Come out and put what You did it, once on the table! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Live the bad conscience, Mrs. Prammer! Live the bad conscience!]] They were 9th and 10th. March – and I remember these two days very much – in Baden near Vienna and had a conference with 80 Austrian and Czech experts there. At this meeting in Baden, you said the following – I quote you –: We do not want to be burdened with this – that is, with the issue of temelin’s nuclear exodus. – Mrs Sima! Her predecessor, Mr Prammer, said: The Czech Government had to decide on Temelin autonomously! It is not worth trying to interfere! It would not be useful for the Czech Republic to buy the power plant to convert it into a gas power plant. – Mrs Prammer, these were your words from 9 to 10. ==References====External links== So if we are facing the situation today that Temelin is in operation, this is also due to your failure to succeed. You have initially tried something, you have seen that you do not carry anything forward, and have capitulated in the final effect and said: This is one of the Czechs in which we do not have to interfere. Similarly, of course, your then chancellor climate has also behaved, which at the time has written – as has its predecessor Vranitzky – of the nuclear-free Central Europe and has repeatedly declared that it will come under its Chancellorship to the nuclear power-free Central Europe. In the end, however, Mochovce and Temelin have now entered into operation. Now let's take a look at how the Freedom Party was! Mrs Glavischnig, I say to you: As early as June 1997, Mr Aumayr has tabled a request on nuclear-free Central Europe, which has had exactly what your group is now calling for. This request was rejected by the Social Democrats, the ÖVP and the Greens. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Look here!]] ==References== In March 1998, an independent request was made by Schweitzer and colleagues on guidelines for EU accession negotiations with Central and Eastern European countries – I quote: "The Federal Government is invited to take a negative attitude in the accession negotiations with the EU-Aspirants as long as it is not ensured that, before the accession of the Central and Eastern European countries to the EU, there is a binding guarantee of the Central and Eastern European countries that nuclear energy will be used peacefully." - Quote. This request was rejected by all, including the Greens. Mr Glavischnig! ==References== In May 1998, the application was rejected by all parties concerning nuclear energy and the extension of the East. ==References== In October 1998, the application Schweitzer concerning the withdrawal scenario from nuclear power use and financing aid for EU accession seekers, which is the same as the five-party application of the Land Environment Conference initiated by Upper Austria, will be submitted: It was about the exit scenario, the accession to the Espoo Convention, the signing of the Lugano Agreement, the financing of exit measures, but all, including the Greens, voted against. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Mrs Glawischnig! Come on. You don't come here now and tell me what you've done! The next proposal was submitted by Schweitzer on 19 November. In May 1999 on nuclear power plants and EU Easter extension, the German Federal Minister for Consumer Protection and the Minister for the Environment for the Temelin AKW was put in place in the course of the discussions. Contents: Without delay, the establishment of binding exit plans by EU candidate countries, in particular the immediate decommissioning of the particularly dangerous Soviet type of reactors, at the latest at the time of accession, shall prove that the nuclear exodus has been carried out, where appropriate, the exercise of veto law against the accession of those States which do not distance themselves from nuclear energy in time. . This request, Mrs Glawischnig, was also rejected by the Social Democrats, the People's Party and the Greens. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Mrs Glawischnig! If you have recently staged yourself in Temelin, as Mr Lastuvka from the Czech Parliament in Paris told me yesterday, very media-actively, I would like to congratulate you on this performance. However, the result you brought home was not really good, because Austria has made itself unbelievable with these actions, which I have just minutiously added to the calendar, in which we have always asked for what everyone at once wants, because you have always voted against them, for whatever reason! You should think about it now. If our Czech neighbour sees that there was disagreement in this regard in the Austrian Parliament, that this was in any case only the request of a group, namely the Liberal Group, and everyone else has repeatedly voted against it, and then those who have rejected it here in this House come at once with the same demand for the Czech Republic and say: But now we do what the liberals want!, of course, this is not a strong argument! The Czechs will say: You've always been against it! Just now, because thousands of people in Wilowitz protest, it is all at once important for you to support what the liberals have always demanded and you have rejected! – This makes you unbelievable, especially the Greens! Mrs. Sima! You can sit in Wolowitz at the border as much as you want! The story was no longer to be saved because there was colleague Prammer and her course because there was a climate and his course! [[Abg. Edlinger: Bartenstein was Environment Minister!]] This has brought us the unbelief on this question, and we must all take note of it together! Now just stand there and lament is too little! I am now coming to the conclusion, Mrs Glavischnig. There have been two attempts to speak rationally with the Czech neighbours: These two experiments have been carried out by the Committee on the Environment. We were in Prague in the previous year, before the summer of 1999, and we had a very practical discussion there, in which economics was also at the centre of the talks, and we found open ears there. We then had a second meeting in the Austrian Parliament a few weeks ago, in which there was also an objective discussion, which ultimately led to the delegation being able to go to Temelin. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Why didn't you drive along?]] I'll tell you: Because Mr Hofmann, as a technician, knows himself far better in the matter than you and I do together. That is why I thought it was important for someone to drive who knows in the matter who can discuss with the partners. I was concerned about talking objectively with each other and not about subtracting a spectacle. The result of your spectacle has now been presented to us: Temelin's in operation!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21644	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21665	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that the population on the border with the Czech Republic has nothing at all from the list of data, when who has submitted what application. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Neither hoof nor over is it given the impression that aid is actually being provided. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The 6,000, 7,000 or 10,000 people, starting with 2. September, at the border to express their protest openly, do not expect more and no less than to be effectively helped! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This effective aid is currently seen as an environmental impact assessment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Mr Colleague of the Social Democratic Party! Now I have to tell you the following or point out something: When it came to EU sanctions against Austria, the Socialists of Europe were not moved. At once, however, one is so embarrassed that one can no longer even speak to the socialist and Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Zeman on a socialist basis! If you already believe you have so good international contacts, then apply them in this area! That would be a great help to us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But obviously these contacts always succeed only where there is a political need to get something out! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The population at the border expects it to be helped to achieve at least an environmental impact assessment for temelin. I add: The population is also quite disappointed by the EU. However, there are very many standardisations in the EU, down to small things that are already bothering the public, but the EU obviously has no prescriptions on vital issues. And that needs to be changed: If we are already thinking about reforms, the reforms would have to start at least with these things! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am now saying something that is quite natural to us local politicians: If anyone wants to build a house today, he has to ask his neighbors all about the extent to which he could affect the neighboring rights with his construction, and accordingly a decision is also issued. Imagine: Now national decisions are being taken that have an international impact, and we are all facing this problem within a large Community like the EU, as if we had no mechanisms at all! And the problem is that one cannot seriously recognize that such instruments could develop over the next few months or years. Dear friends! In this respect, something has to come to mind, and I invite everyone to contribute to the fact that this is a very significant change. I believe that the people at the border with the Czech Republic will not be allowed to demonstrate themselves, even in the future, especially if it becomes apparent that the concerns of the population – and I add: the legitimate concerns of the population – will not be perceived accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! I therefore call for the efforts already made in Luxembourg and for the first time, thanks to God at EU level, to continue in such a way as to make no doubt that we will only accept Czech accession to the EU if at least this basic requirement is met. This can be demanded by the people of this border area, and they will demand it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21756	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21777	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is really terrifying that not even the environmental spokesperson of the FPÖ wants to listen further to this debate. [[Abg. Edlinger: Who is this?]] Perhaps you can ask him to attend the discussion in some form. [[New call to the SPÖ.]] ==References== The test operation of the Temelin power plant was started on October 1. I mean, now's not the time to throw the pint into the grain. The Greens and many environmental groups of Austria have been fighting this power plant for 15 years, and the next goal must be to prevent commercial full operation. We have repeatedly said that the economic side is the Achilles farce of this project. We have made proposals in the direction of nuclear power import bans from the Czech Republic, but also advances in order to prevent electricity laundering, which is mainly handled through Germany, because it is of course necessary to do so. We presented these demands in a comprehensive package before the summer. On the history of the application: These applications were submitted in March and April, and it is due to Mr Khol and Mr Westenthaler that they came into the committee only after the commissioning. This is really amazing for me! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We have already submitted applications in 1997!]] I would also like to say something about the FPÖ proposals, and I would like to clarify our position, which I think is very important: The junkimization of EU accession with the Temelin question is a tactical question. I hold the demand: No accession of the Czech Republic, as long as Temelin is in operation! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I can also explain to you why: We have always voted in favour of using negotiations as levers, but the overall result cannot be that the Czech Republic does not join the European Union and Temelin continues to operate! The fact that the distance of only 60 kilometres and the people who are at risk and protest against it do not change anything at all. I strongly oppose the fact that a party is trying to stifle its rejection of EU enlargement with the help of an environmental policy argument and thereby misuse environmental policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Achatz: Talk to the people at the border!]] Your position on EU enlargement is really well known! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Let these interruptions, you had enough speaking time before, and it was enough unqualified nonsense with it! [[Abg. Achatz: This is indescribable!]] Sorry, but much was really very, very unqualified! . I would now like to address two points in detail. The points that we presented at the summer meeting – for example, the ban on imports and the pressure on the European Union to tighten up the provisions on dumping electricity exports, and also the close cooperation with Germany on this issue – were not yet worthy of discussion from the standpoint of the government parties and did not find a majority at that time. That is why I am very glad that the current escalation and the protests on the streets have now become so great that these points can now finally be adopted in a joint resolution. However, I think it is a pity that there is still no willingness to talk about the other area, which we have always wanted to focus on, namely, the field of awarding policy in Austria, in order to examine the so-called complicity, because, as we all know now, the VA-Tech is involved, and there are other Austrian companies that are involved in Temelin and earn their millions. Anti-atomic policy must be credible and consistent on the whole. It is not only when pressure comes from opposition or environmental groups or when citizens walk on the road, that they can make something out of the hip, but here there is a need for an overall concept. It is about the Euratom Treaty and the European nuclear exodus. There must be an overall approach against all nuclear power stations close to the border, and it must not always be politically acted on only at the last minute before a power plant goes into operation. This is too little and in the past has proved to be non-targeting. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that it is necessary to put anti-atomic policy on completely new legs. In the form of a large dialogue we need to discuss the realignment, because with Temelin the last nuclear power station in construction and near border has now entered the test operation. We have already held the same discussion on Mochovce. This project, too, has financed Western donors, Western banks, and even there we have not managed to achieve a success. I regret the fact that the problems we had with Slovakia regarding Bohunice are now being starved and that both the Federal Chancellor and the Environment Minister are now saying that the Czech Republic is so bad that it has gone well with Slovakia. Again to the memory: The closing date for Bohunice was 2000. There was a connection with the loans of the Germans for Mochovce and the commissioning of Block I and II. That Slovakia ignores this date was an incredible affront, not only to Austria but also to the European Union, for it was even anchored in Agenda 2000. – This is the Austrian position set out in the Antiatom Plan, and this should be communicated by our top representatives over and over again! And if it is said that Slovakia has everything worked great because Bohunice "shon" 2006 goes off the net, then that's devastating! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am also concerned about the consistency of policy in this area: In December, there will be a pan-European electricity invitation to tender for the entire federal building, and of course schools and universities are also affected. To this end, I would like to say: I reject the fact that the Austrian schools have to enter into electricity contracts with Bayernwerk or any other large European electricity group, and that nuclear power is increasingly flowing to Austria. This is also known to our foreign counterparts. That is why I now call on Minister Bartenstein to show great sensitivity on this issue. Further nuclear imports to Austria must be prevented anyway! The share has increased from one to three percent to more than 10 percent within one and a half years, and I think this is devastating. That countercards our entire anti-atomic policy! You also have to keep in mind such things, and if you don't, then you have to let the criticism of the opposition fall, for that we are there! The opposition is there to put your finger in exactly those wounds. If we do not stand this as a member of a government group, like Mr Schweitzer, who has already left again, I am really sorry. But this is also done in the sense of the audited ones in order to achieve a better policy. Finally, I say: For us Greens, the situation has not changed much from the old to the new government. In anti-atomic policy, it has always been far too late. At the time, we strongly and strongly asked German Chancellor Klima to go to Prague to meet Prime Minister Zeman, even with free tickets. We are now doing the same with German Chancellor Schüssel, which unfortunately remained unsuccessful so far. It is generally a failure – under quotations – in so far as it is only at the last minute when people go to the street and when one realizes that one can make "small money" on the subject of political – under quotation marks. However, we need a consistent nuclear policy, which runs through all political areas; it begins with the supply of public buildings and goes down to the right to award. The approach must be consistent, otherwise we are not credible in the Czech Republic! Now to our visit there: If Mr Schweitzer had been there – I think Mr Mühlbachler and Mr Hofmann can confirm this too – he would probably be of the opinion that it was almost impossible to maintain a nice atmosphere of conversation in view of the fact that the power plant operators started a further warming phase just hours before our arrival. That was an incredible affront, and it was really hard to stay polite. We remained polite, however. From my point of view, however, it would have been wrong to seek consensus, and we also made the Austrian position very clear. The positive result is – and this will also be confirmed by the experts – that the Top-Secret AKW will finally be opened at least in sub-areas and that safety-related documents can for the first time be viewed by the Austrian experts over a longer period of time, which was not possible in recent years, as our experts, such as Mr Kromp, confirm. This is also a success of the four parliamentarians who were there. If my colleague Schweitzer doesn't see that way, I'm sorry. I mean, this is an approach to further resistance. The aim is to prevent the full operation of this power plant. We will do everything we can to contribute to this, and we will continue to make appropriate proposals and, as always, try to get four-party majority for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21893	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I made an appeal to the House about an hour ago regarding the language. I was also concerned that expressions such as "difficult" are not used, especially when they are more or less directly addressed. On the new occasion, I ask everyone for more moderation in the language. Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke next time. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e21918	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it clear, of course, that the Austrian Federal Government continues to fight for security, not just for the security of the Austrian population, but far beyond. The position of the Austrian Federal Government is clear, it has also been held in a decision and has been borne by a basic consensus of all parties represented in Parliament, which has been expressed unanimously in various resolutions and will be expressed again today. In addition, there were also resolutions like those in the Federal Council last week, and there is a common position of the Austrian Land Days, which was very important from my point of view, because it makes it clear that this is not a matter of concern to only a federal country or individual federal states, but rather of an all-Austrian concern. Austria has noted four critical points in this question: firstly, the lack of transparency of the procedure, second, the lack of implementation or non-implementation of an environmental impact assessment, thirdly, the fact that there are many open issues relating to safety, and fourthly, the competitiveness of the nuclear power plant. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you about the current state of play in this context: With regard to environmental impact assessment, preparations for hearing via the part EIA of the building on Austrian soil will continue. Today, the information has reached us that the Ministry of the Environment in the Czech Republic has now arranged to carry out an environmental impact assessment process on 78 changes in construction. Austria will, of course, actively participate, and the Federal Environment Agency will, as before, serve as an open platform for drawing up the opinion for this EIA. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we stick to our goal and insist that we want to have an overall environmental impact assessment on the overall project AKW Temelin. On the subject of security, we have noted in recent weeks that the exchange of information has improved, but still a number of security issues have not been answered. Of course, we will stick to the full answer to these security questions. We also assume, as in the past, that nuclear safety in the accession process will be given the highest priority by the European Commission, and, in the context of my intervention in Luxembourg, it has been confirmed that Environment Commissioner Wallström is of course supporting this. Nuclear safety is an important subject of the accession process. Austria has continued the initiative at European level to create uniform European standards. The Commissioner for the Environment's answer is that it is necessary to develop a common understanding of standards, such as now in the Atom Council Working Group, which will also have to develop assessment criteria for the safety standards in the accession process by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not think that there are a number of Member States that do not share the view that a Treaty change is necessary to create legally binding uniform security standards in the Union. We therefore urgently call on all those involved to support our strategy wherever they can, for example in France, which has a very critical attitude in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are further developing the energy partnerships, and I have agreed with Mr Kuzvart that we will develop joint projects on issues such as energy efficiency and alternative energy sources. Ladies and gentlemen! You know that German Chancellor Schüssel is currently trying very hard to make a concrete appointment with Prime Minister Zeman. I hope that will succeed in the next few days. Ladies and gentlemen! If dialogue is required, then an outstretched hand is there for you to accept it, and Austria extends its hand and offers this dialogue day and night. I hope that this will now be achieved in an improved way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But from this point of view I would like to say quite clearly: For me, the events of the years 1989 and 1990, which resulted in the Iron Curtain now belonging to the past, were a happy experience. I believe, therefore, that we must do everything we can to solve a critical problem that exists in connection with the Czech Republic. From my point of view, therefore, the position of the Federal Government is perfectly clear when it says that it is only possible to complete the energy chapter if there are answers to security questions and the necessary clarifications are made in connection with the EIA. This is and of course remains the position of the Federal Government! I believe that the current debate shows that the issue of nuclear safety has an indispensable European dimension, because it must be a pan-European issue. Despite the legitimate and massive critical discussion that is necessary because many questions are not solved, we must not ignore this in the perspective. I would ask you to take this into account in the further debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22005	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22026	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The two previous speakers, Mr Schweitzer and Mr Mühlbachler, have a lot to say about this. For more than five years, I have been dealing with the demand for a nuclear power plant-free Central Europe, and unlike you, ladies and gentlemen, who are now in the government – one new and the other still – I am not suffering from collective memory wounds. I think I remember what happened here in this House. Now a few clarifications on what Mr Schweitzer has made regarding his applications: It is true that the liberals, in their capacity as opposition party, have made clean, clear, very tight and, in part, extremely formulated applications. However, each of these applications – as Mr Glawischnig has already mentioned – was linked to the demand for a clear veto against EU accession. Once again – I do not make a murderer pit from my heart, I have always represented it –: Temelin has entered into operation – even if it is only a test operation. Whether or not the Czech member of the EU becomes a member of the EU, Temelin does not become more secure, and the fears of the people living adjacent to it cannot be taken. I am even opposed to trying to change so much political change with the legitimate fears of people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer spoke specifically to Mrs Prammer – formerly also Minister for Consumer Protection – and accused her of having done too little. I would like to point out here from the speakers' point of view that Mrs Prammer has been one of the first members of the government, who, after having been commissioned to strive for a nuclear-free Central Europe – I am thinking of Slovakia, Mochovce and the like – has really made a visible and serious effort to negotiate and achieve something. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Let's think back – Mr Schweitzer is no longer here –: Whenever we negotiated the proposals at the time – and I am glad that he did not say that he made joint motions for resolutions from various applications – these were carried almost consistently by all the parties here in the House. Not only Environment Minister Molterer, but also all other members of the government have always referred to the importance of speaking a relatively uniform language to the outside of this important question. I believe – and this has proved the discussion in the Committee on the Environment – that we have not taken advantage of this wrong course of action, neither we as the larger opposition party nor the smaller opposition party. We should continue along this path. Mr Mühlbachler! You have referred to the failure of the Federal Government, for example as regards negotiations with the Czech Government's head office. I can remind you that the main operator of the establishment of Temelin was the predecessor of Prime Minister Zeman and that, unfortunately, God's very valuable time has not been used for this – Mr Glavischnig has already said that. You rightly asked: What do people benefit from the requests we make here? – But please tell me another instrument that we have parliamentarians. We have only the opportunity, in the form of motions for resolutions, to ask the Federal Government to do some work. That's what we've done for years. If it didn't happen, we'd have to ask those responsible why not. I can only say to Mr Prammer: She has really tried to find solutions on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have to say – and not because he is no longer there – that I have had the impression at the German Chancellor's climate that he has been listening too often and too much to his vice chancellor and Foreign Minister Schüssel. I would like to remind you of that. As I have said, Mr Schweitzer is not speaking today. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ellmauer! If someone was brought in by the Federal Government, then by the ÖVP, namely the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They always said: But you can't understand that so dramatically and so clearly, you have to make that much more diplomatic. – What have we achieved with all the diplomacy? – That we are now, in fact, almost in front of a diplomatic shrapnel. I don't think that's good and reasonable. There was indeed – I can remind you – a hearing on it; the weakest reporting has come from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, apart from the fact that not the first, but the second or the third, was represented and told us what it intends to do on this issue. Remember: From the very beginning, we have seen that if we stand up for a nuclear power-free central Europe, which can basically only go over the EU, then our calls have largely been addressed to Brussels. We have called for an amendment to the Euratom Treaty – I do not need to remind the House that this has happened, that is shed milk. I hope that something like that doesn't happen anymore. We have also deliberately spoken only more of Western security standards, because if you speak of German, you will never come to a uniform standard, because the standard of the English is very different to that of the French and Germans. They all have very different views. Federal Minister! I think it is right to stay on this line in all cases. Since this is an economic factor, we have called for additional things: the introduction of the cost-truth. External costs must also be included in the atomic flow price calculation. As long as we don't reach that, we'll be dumping nuclear power for so long. As I said, The large producer or wholesaler does not see where the electricity comes from, but only looks at the price – and that makes it very, very difficult. Ladies and gentlemen! We weren't so unsuccessful. I can remind you that, for example, 7th. It was released in September 2000 in the press: Aid for modernisation. This means that all reactors that are in the best sense or in the worst sense of the word scrap reactors – whether in Bulgaria, Lithuania or Bohunice in Slovakia – will be removed from the grid; and Brussels will support this. – We have at least achieved that. If I lived right on the border, I would be very concerned. But I believe that if a nuclear reactor accident really happens, 100 kilometres away are nothing at all. Therefore, one should not ignore that Mochovce unfortunately went into operation of God, and Mochovce has a technology similar to Temelin. As I said, we were not entirely unsuccessful, but could have done much more. The so-called old Federal Government decided in the Council of Ministers on the anti-atomic action plan in the middle of last year. We then strengthened this request in Parliament with the votes of all five parties. Then stop relatively little happened, as a lot of valuable time has also been lost. I think they've looked much more at the elections than at many others. But I know from Mrs Prammer that she has been active on this issue for quite a long time. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's not cheat: The people who block the boundaries that stand there day and night, sleep, eat and so on, know very well whether we are acting honestly or dishonestly on the question. I quote from the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten", Wednesday, 18. October: Temelin opponents doubt government commitments. – Why do they doubt the government’s promises? – Because, of course, many have heard the statements of the President of the Czech National Council, Václav Klaus, and he has clearly pointed out that he does not regard this as an EU issue. This is a bilateral matter, and we will therefore have to make every effort to discuss it. I'm glad to read in the paper today that there's already an appointment. ==References== October will meet Zeman and Cuisine, and I hope there will be good talks in the sense of our security. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say - I have already suggested it in the Committee on the Environment - that we have not only decided on the proposals we are discussing. We have also decided – § 13 of the ElWOG – on this nuclear import ban, so that it can enter into force immediately with the ElWOG and the Minister of Economic Affairs can make use of it. But I also encouraged and remembered that the Czechs are currently planning with Temelin that the E.ON is largely beginning to shut down its caloric power plants because it is thinking about or already doing it to import cheap nuclear power from the Czech Republic, by 20 to 22 sizes per kilowatt hour. The most terrible thing about this is that there are customers for it. That is to say, we will not only be able to limit ourselves to talks with the Czech Republic, but we are well advised to talk to the German Minister of Economic Affairs and ask him to take similar things into the electricity management system in Germany, because then the Czechs will lose their customers for their electricity from Temelin, and that is what it is all about. They have enough nuclear power capacity to provide the Czech Republic twice. They can think about whether they sell or not or whether they care for themselves – but then they will have to shut down the caloric power plants in all cases, and they will not endure this politically. Ladies and gentlemen! These are perspectives that we should talk about and think about, and we must also become an initiative in this direction. Finally, I would like to say – I have talked long enough, it is already quite late today –: I think we should continue along the path. I must say quite honestly – across the party borders – that I have a good feeling at the Minister for the Environment Molterer and I believe that these concerns are well lifted. He is Upper Austrian, he also understands the concerns and needs of the people in Upper Austria. However, we should not try on this issue – and we will be measured in years by what we really have done, and not by what we have just talked about – to spread sand into the eyes of people, just to infuse a few successes in a populist way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22148	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22169	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I join my previous speaker and take up the word "populism". Mrs Glawischnig! I think you could get the impression and had to, if you were in Temelin and especially if you've been tracking the media reports that you've been driving to Temelin together with Col. Sima to give the impression that you're the protective cover madonna of all nuclear opponents. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Media news!]] [[Abg. May. Sima: That's just envy!]] No, Mrs. Sima, that's not media news. There was an agreed common line, and in this common line was also defined when the press conference is taking place. That you have no interest at all in the walk-down of the power plant – for whatever reason – to make any observations about what the real meaning of the delegation's presence has been there, but to use the time to give the press all the information in advance and to release the air, so to speak, that's a second story. - But be it. Instead of taking part in the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Sima goes to Wolowitz to mix among the demonstrators and appear to be saving the nation, so to speak, and to ensure that Temelin is locked up or not connected to the network. At the same time, she calls on the Federal Minister to do the same. That is to say, the Federal Minister, who was of course in the Environment Committee, is asked to drive to Wolowitz – perhaps there is a group reduction at the Bundesbahn – to join Mrs Sima. - That's populism. The fact that the Rochade, which took place between the deputy chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the colleague Sima, should or should have been re-occupied should have been mentioned. This was not possible because Mrs Sima was not present. Now I'm coming to a scapegoat. As far as Mrs Prammer is concerned, Karl Schweitzer has already listed some sins. The Minister for Consumer Protection Prammer – I have already said it in this House – wrote a press release before the commissioning of Mochovce and publicly announced: Mochovce has to go into operation only in order to be able to assess it finally and finally. - That's right, isn't it? - Yeah, that's right, Mrs. Prammer. There's still this press service. That was the attitude and the use of the social democrats at the time, the use of you as the Federal Minister for Consumer Protection in relation to the situation of nuclear power stations. It was added that Mochovce was put into operation and went to the network. [[Abg. May. Prammer: How many times have you been in a Jour fixe with me?]] Is it true that there is this press service, Mrs. Colleague? - There are those. I will bring you the press service following my speech. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Show him to me! How many times have you been in a Jour fixation with me?]] I was with you several times at the Jour fix. So I find it all the more shocking that there are such statements. This is a statement from the Federal Minister Molterer, who says: In the context of EU accession, the energy chapter will not be closed unless the safety relevance is clarified and all security technical issues are resolved without delay. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Bring me the press release!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are in principle different ways and approaches at temelin, different aspects. One is the basic position I believe it has been exchanged. We are in favour of a nuclear-free Central Europe, we are against nuclear power, while the Czechs are advocates of nuclear power. This is the official position, an attitude – both sides known, often repeated. Then there is a second point, which concerns economics. It is very likely that attention will be paid to the fact that this nuclear power plant will have a cross-subsidisation, namely the Czech customers who have to support the export power produced in Temelin, so that this electricity can be exported at all, i.e., located on the market. This will require an in-depth examination. I hear that the Greens suggest that it should be a compensation - at least to the media - so that we should pay the costs for this power plant Temelin... – No, that was repeated in the "matter" broadcast. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That was a request in Parliament!]] I wish you good luck for this: 43 to 45 billion schilling costs this power plant. Westinghouse alone has an order of $400 million. I wish you good luck in the compensation and also in proving that – as these investments have already been made – it should not go into the network because it is so uneconomic. [[Call: Is it that way?]] Yes, my colleague. The problem is that this is already invested. So the replacement payment – a proposal from the Greens – will be nothing. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: make a suggestion!]] One of my main points is the safety of this power plant. In the field of safety technology – that is the area for which you, Mrs Glavischnig, have not been so interested – I believe that it is the essential point, in fact, to achieve that this power plant, although it is already under way, is not fully connected to the grid. There is no transparency to this day, and the Federal Minister has also confirmed that not all necessary documents are available. There are special features of this nuclear power plant which are not available to others. They know that when nuclear power plants are built, the containment is on grown ground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] - Yes, but you obviously don't care. They're not talking about it. This is the starting point, however, that vertical pipe executions are under this containment of the control room, the waiting, i.e. essential plant parts that need to ensure safety and its function. You know that, but you don't care. As regards the proof that there is no impact safety in the pipelines, we have been shown a Czech construction. You gave interviews, I looked at it. [[Call the SPÖ: It's annoying him again!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] – No, that reflects your commitment, which had only one purpose: to be on the front page of the daily newspapers – and nothing else! This has not yet been clarified, and we will have to ask for it. I hear again and again that Western security standards are required – whatever that is –; I repeat, but I say it again: These safety standards do not exist, nor can these safety standards be established in this hybrid system, because this is not one too comparable. The philosophy in this construction is different from that of Western nuclear power plants. So there are questions about questions. Personally, I am glad that the Federal Government has found a clear line. I find it unfortunate that we were so brutal when we came to Temelin, where by heating up to 280 degrees points were deleted from our wish list and one did not want us to do a visit in the containment. It was then still possible to thank God, but it was not enough to be able to say in conclusion that this power plant is safe. For this we would still need the corresponding calculation documents and security evidence. I welcome the attitude of the Federal Government and hope that – as far as safety technology is concerned – the final Ans-Net gesture of this power plant can still be prevented.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22321	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22342	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Temelin is an irritable word, not only in the border region, but it affects all Austrians. For almost one and a half decades, it has been and is being built on this nuclear power plant. However, there are also concerns for a long time, and thus also protests of the Austrian population, of citizens' initiatives, but also of those responsible – concerns and activities that have greatly increased since the time of the tragic accident in Chernobyl. That's why no one can really claim that we're only reporting now. From personal experience, I have been confronted with this topic for at least 12 years, and I also deal with it. Of course, a particular risk is the combination of Western and Eastern technology – a dangerous technology mix, a technical standard that would never be approved according to the safety criteria of the Federal Republic of Germany. The fact that the previously mentioned danger potential of the Austrians is highly affected is of course, and it is not a interference in the interests of our neighbouring country. In the course of the border blockades, our citizens have shown very impressively that they are affected and that they insist on a comprehensive environmental impact assessment because the safety aspect is by far the most important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, the start-up of the controversial nuclear power plant has saddened the friendly relations that have developed over the past few years, which have undoubtedly contributed to some Czech responsibilities in their dealings. The commissioning of temelin is a flesh wound that leaves scars. Since Temelin has been crystallized to serve only for export purposes and even representatives of the Czech energy group CEZ have repeatedly admitted that the prices for electricity exports are in some cases below the cost of production, there is a suspicion that the price of electricity is dumped in the course of an eviction struggle. Such practices mean that there are considerable disadvantages for Austrian energy production plants and that they will also have considerable effect. Nuclear power plants are simply cheaper in the initial phase, because they are cross-subsidized on the one hand and on the other hand they delegate costs over decades and centuries, because there is simply no full cost bill – as mentioned today – to the train. Temelin as a negative example, however, can also offer many opportunities to be at home – especially in terms of Kyoto goals – to set positive examples for us in Austria, to come first at our own door and then to knock on the neighbor and to offer these opportunities as well. I refer only to the energy saving potential, which is also in the Austrian field. However, it must also be clearly stated that we in this House need to discuss measures, create the framework conditions in order to achieve these energy saving potentials realistically on the one hand and to be able to meet the remaining energy needs by renewable energy sources on the other hand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I consider it much more useful to set examples with Austrian alternative energy, with Austrian plant technology, and not to distribute billions of gifts to our neighbours, who knew what he was doing because of the massive protests from the beginning of construction. I do not see this claim as a target. However, the blockades on the border crossings have also led to intensive opinion formation – not only in Austria but also in the Czech Republic. In the course of many conversations with our neighbors, which I personally know, I have learned that they only became aware of certain things in the course of these demonstrations and blockages. For a decade propaganda for the nuclear current, as it was operated on the Czech side, has not passed without traces of the population, and now they only notice the dangers and risks associated with it. It is particularly noteworthy that there is a second chain reaction, namely the chain reaction of reason, triggered by one of the most important politicians of the present – this is no less than the President of the Czech Republic Václav Havel, who clearly and clearly said that it was a gross mistake that he did not commit himself to this nuclear power plant in time much more massively. On our part, this chain reaction of reason must continue to drive to show clearly and clearly that nuclear energy in history can only write black pages. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. To support this chain reaction of reason, we are all called. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22419	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22440	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The chain reaction of reason has a long history, it also has a scene today and hopefully will also open a small hope perspective in the matter of Temelin. As a man who has been raised reasonablely, one believes in reason. It is often difficult for one to have this faith, especially if one hears some unqualified statements here in this House and especially in view of the history of Austrian resistance to nuclear power in Central Europe. I do not want to look retrospectively into the past here, although I felt very much about it. I was in Zwentendorf, I know the story with Wackersdorf. Only for clarity: About me there's a Stapo act about Wackersdorf. I was in Temelin several times. My goodness, the border blockades are still in my legs! But it's supposed to go into the future. Minister! In this respect, however, you have already given me some support. They have formulated: Of course, all of our attention now applies to the energy protocols. The essential thing is – I think it has really been called so literally by you; I quote from memory, but it certainly does not deceive me – an answer in the security question and a clarity in the EIA. I am therefore so suspicious because this energy protocol is a very delicate matter. In the case of the Energy Protocol, the pre-accession arrangements must be set. The Federal Chancellor and you have, after all, gone through this – even though this was actually possible last autumn – to finally throw the energy protocol into the scales and to impose conditions on it. Now, tonight, you are here: on the one hand, the answer to security questions, on the other, the clarity in the matter of EIA. I would like to know even more clearly, Minister: What is the answer in the security question? – For me, the answer is quite clear. Experts reihum say this nuclear power plant is not safe. That is why I do not need to wait for the answers to the security question, Minister. My perspective for the future is therefore that I have listened very closely to you here and now I would like you to perhaps even more precisely in this direction to give you an answer. The other thing is: What is the clarity on the security question? – I think that's clear on the table. It has been expressed very clearly and clearly – also by visiting the local parliamentarians – that the EIA question has not been clarified. In particular, discussions with the Czech partners from the Environment Committee have shown a very clear view. You too have heard it in "the matter", Mr Beneš from the neighbouring Republic of the Czech Republic has always boasted: We have the best EIA laws. – Yes, that’s right, but they don’t apply them! What should be the clarity with the EIA if it is not applied or if it is applied retrospectively, is applied in sub-areas and there is never a total EIA? Minister! Excuse me when I come to talk about it the third and last time: Their statements today, with this terminology, were not for me the future perspective I now need to continue the resistance despite all the injustices, despite all restrictions, despite relatively gloomy starting situation. We need this resistance! We keep telling people on the ground that they should continue to do this resistance. It is only by this that only through the blockades it has been possible that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic finally made it possible to reach an appointment with Mr. Prime Minister Zeman, so that it seems as if it is finally chief. That was always our argument. I could list you historically, I think, at least 15 green applications – perhaps I do not let down the memory, and I could even tell you the data; only the speaking time has expired – in which the Greens have repeatedly applied for the case of anti-atomic policy, the Temelin case must become the chief thing. This is not the case to this day, because otherwise Mr Molterer sat not alone on the government bank, but the Federal Chancellor sat next to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22483	I call Mr Brix. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. I'm going to put the clock all the time at 5 minutes. It is only voluntary speaking times that I suggest. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22507	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In principle, we should find an Austrian way to which all Austrians confess themselves, so that we avoid a complete commissioning of the Temelin nuclear power plant. I mean, the fear of the people has neither red nor black, nor green, nor blue mesh, but the fear of the people is present. Therefore, everything must be done to prevent this nuclear power plant. But it should not be found a way to crash. I don't think it's done with threats alone. Rather, it is important that we do our best to ensure that the Czech people, too, are able to speak this fear which they already feel, and thus act against this nuclear power plant in their own country. I still remember the year 1986 when the disaster occurred in Chernobyl. At that time we were all afraid, just as today the Upper Austrians, the Viennaers, the Lower Austrians are afraid. At that time, there was a complete rethinking in the population on the topic of nuclear power plants. Today, Chernobyl can currently be compared to temelin. - Why do I say that? Federal Minister! High house! ==References== This year, Chernobyl is closed or removed from the network. Ukraine's ambassador was in the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs during these days, where she received the consent of Ambassador Novotny or at all from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Ukraine can apply for loans for conventional energy, i.e. for coal, for natural gas, for oil. The fact that they submitted the request to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is something we must say about Austrians: Let's be glad to close Chernobyl! Let us be glad that this country needs energy, and we ourselves want to send our technicians there to build businesses. But this country also needs money, and there is the following – now I really ask for attention –: After the ambassador of Ukraine had been in the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and had received the promise, he turned to this bank, and – you will not believe it – the Austrian representative at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Director Luzin, refused that Ukraine would receive a loan for conventional energy from the point of view that it closes Chernobyl. Ladies and gentlemen! If it is so that we do not support these countries and that an Austrian director – this is added! – According to the Minister of Finance, who is known to be a member of the Freedom Party, who does not grant credit to this country, we do not need to talk about Temelin and support at all. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's scandalous!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This shows the whole hypocrisy!]] In fact, the blue Minister of Finance is preventing what the black Foreign Minister wants, namely support for a country that is moving towards conventional energy. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I believe that bowl...!]] Then what else can be credible? [[Abg. May. Trattner: They export this!]] Do we just want to threaten a country, or is there the possibility of supporting a country? – There would be the opportunity to support a country. But threats are probably much easier. [[Abg. May. Trattner: These are not threats!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We prefer to develop concepts, how we can help the Czech Republic in this way, so that they do not lose their face, that they can make the full exit from nuclear energy and still have energy for their country! [[Abg. Gaugg: Listen! We were already against the nuclear power, as you have danced with the drum around the Christ tree!]] Let us not go that way that Minister of Finance has Grasser ordered by Director Luzhin by refusing conventional energy to a developing country!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22617	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Fallent. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22638	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Brix! It is clear to us, I think, why it is important to you that the Czech Republic does not lose its face. It's a socialist government, and I think that's what's behind it. I'd ask myself... [[Abg. Brix: This has nothing to do with party politics! Do you really believe that this has to do with party politics?]] [[Further calls.]] I know that this would have nothing to do with it. But I'm just asking myself a question: What if a liberal government did so in the Czech Republic? – I think the criticism looked different. [[Abg. May. Prammer: But go!]] Mr. Oberhaidinger! If you say that disapproval of the energy chapter is no longer necessary and no longer to be considered, I will tell you: That is also wrong. I believe that we have the right to demand something that ensures the security of current and coming generations. I believe that there must also be consequences if these long-term demands are not met. I think that for some time the Czech Republic has been moving very massively in the wrong direction, in a direction in which it cannot, of its own fault, create accession to the European Union. It is up to the Czech Republic to meet the environmental criteria. It is up to the Czech Republic to meet the criteria in the field of democracy. It is up to the Czech Republic to respect European values. It is up to the Czech Republic to comply with European rules of play. That's not happening, and I think it's our right to demand it. It can't be! Do you know who in Austria is most afraid? – These are our children! You can't even understand what's happening there and how their future is handled! I think that the Federal Government – and probably all four parties – has reached agreement, and we can be happy about this – has presented a motion for a resolution which makes it clear in five points how our strategy is: on the one hand, to get allies in Europe, to get people and politicians who think as we do, on the other hand, as regards Germany in particular – Mr Oberhaidinger, what you want to think about, you have already thought; it is already contained in the motion for a resolution, namely, point 4 – that we will come to Germany, just as we are here in Austria to make a third country scheme for countries that have power plants that do not conform to the state of the art, so that we do not buy and import electricity there. I think it is also very important to say that we have expressly spoken against price dumping and that we are trying to raise the corresponding awareness in Europe. I believe that the decision-making of the ElWOG was a very important step, so we have established the basis for this third country regime and that there will be a electricity label in the future. It also depends very much on how consumers behave and how the population behaves. If it is able to distinguish whether it is nuclear power or not, it will also be able to make choices with its consumption. I'll tell you: It is produced nothing that is not consumed. It is therefore very important for us, in my opinion, to inform the Czech Republic urgently that we are able to abandon electricity from this power plant. I think our Federal Minister will do everything he can to go this way. I'm really going to ask you from the SPÖ: Act on your Czech partner and your Czech colleagues to make responsible policy here! And I would ask you, Mrs Glawischnig, to ensure that the 32-year warranty declaration for nuclear energy will not remain that way in the future, because I believe that it is a false signal to represent an exit scenario, none of which is positive. At 32 years – please, the people who decide to do so today will then no longer have the opportunity to really demand this decision! I think that we will already know in a few years that nuclear energy has no future and that nuclear power plants have to be closed. We have only one way out, namely the transition to renewable energy sources: to a sustainable world, to habitats with a future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22695	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22717	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Temelin nuclear power plant, which has already been debated very strongly in this House today, is an example of how disunity, exclusion, self-interest, but also egoism of habitat and citizens are threatened and insecured. We need to work together to find a strategy, a sustainable strategy to face citizens and provide them with a security that they deserve. Personally, I am disappointed that it is despite Cohesion in the surrounding area – that is to say, from the EU directly, but also from Germany or France – has actually given very little support. It is difficult to find the guilty because many are involved in this power plant and have played a major role in both money and technology. The only lesson from the Temelin nuclear power station can only be that we in the Central European region no longer operate such power plants, and the lesson from it must be that we do everything we can so that we can give up or give up nuclear power in the shortest possible time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So we have to send signals to the EU, and we have to find allies. In my opinion, it is also very important that people like the German Environment Minister Trittin, who once clearly distance themselves from the nuclear current, not only speak – sometimes very quickly – and change attitudes, but clearly take their position. I have this expectation. We need a tactic – this has already been openly addressed today – to request the remaining documents, which have not yet been disclosed, and to request security checks. I am glad that Federal Minister Molterer has reported here today that an EIA procedure is being initiated for the rest of the technical field. We need uniform standards here. The EU needs to become active here or become more active than before, and it must not block anything. But I am also glad that our Federal Minister Bartenstein has set a sign or a signal that Austria is no longer importing a nuclear current. I am quite clear that there will or may be a lot of possible detours, but we must try to push the nuclear current out of the market and offer alternative energy options. This is the only answer for me to get to less nuclear current. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, another statement: It is too little to convert a nuclear power plant. This is not a solution, it is too expensive and not realistic. We need all measures to help through projects, energy saving projects or alternative forms of energy in the Czech Republic. It also does not benefit in the long run from protest, which is not a solution and no answer. We need the conversation and dialogue. Here I hope for our Federal Minister and especially for our Federal Chancellor, who will make appointments in the foreseeable future to enter into this dialogue. With talks and negotiations, we should be able to resolve the temelin issue in the sense of the population here and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22774	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22795	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! We have a long Temelin debate today. I would like to try to bring into the debate some aspects which I believe will be very important for our political debate in the next few years. Personal concern in the face of the current Temelin conflict – because as such one must perceive it – with the Czech population and the Czech government has a story for me personally. I remember very well when we Greens were invited in 1988/89 by the Czech Environment and Citizens' Movement to talk about Austrian politics, Austrian democracy and the Austrian agricultural policy. I remember with what interest citizens of the Czech Republic have reorientated, as they have tried to reposition themselves politically and in terms of content. Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me in this discussion, in this debate between Austria and the Czech Republic, that the climate between the two countries and the culture of communication in recent years has not been maintained to the extent that it would be necessary to have instruments in order to remain in a dialogue even in conflict-rich moments – and of course we now have such a moment – so to speak. Mr Federal Minister, that is, I believe, the great challenge and also the great problem. The Austrian anti-AKW movement, the anti-temelin movement has maintained these contacts for years. She knows the domestic situation in the Czech Republic very well, and she knows how difficult it is to keep resentments in the Czech Republic, which are historically comprehensible, so to speak. Federal Minister! I'm looking for you: Do you agree that your colleagues, especially head of state, Pühringer, will finally leave the Beneš decrees on the spot, so to speak, where they belong, in their own discussion, and that will not be associated with Temelin. That is why I would really like to ask you to contribute to a solution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that the offer you make here, which I appreciate and which I also believe is necessary and correct, should not lead us to signal compromise immediately. I believe that we should have the courage to make it clear to the Czech population and to the Czech policy that there can only be a compromise in the interests of the Czech and Austrian peoples, namely, that the costs of demolition, the costs of conversion or whatever will be are still lower than when this power plant goes into full load. Mr Federal Minister, I think we should take advantage of this opportunity together. We should not just treat this as a pan-European issue. Of course, it is one thing, but this should not prevent us from holding bilateral talks, intensifying bilateral communication and doing everything in the coming months to convince the Czech civilian population that we are not nationalists in the bad sense: that we live in prosperity and do not allow the Czechs anything. This is the impression on the basis of the ordinary citizen in the Czech Republic: The "rich" Austrians – under quotation marks – come and tell us where it goes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us be careful with such strategies! Above all, let us be constructive, and let us finally get out of this defensive in the EU's Eastern Policy! Eastern Europe – these are our neighbours, these are those countries that will come to the EU in the coming years with many problems, including many environmental problems. Minister! We have opportunities, we also have tasks and we bear responsibility. Let us really take care of this responsibility too! Finally, symptomatic of the discourse being conducted here, I would like to make the statements of Mr Fallent – I do not know if he is here – happen again briefly. He said in several repetitions: It's the Czech Republic, it's the Czech Republic – and nothing happens. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what leads to the dead end. We must, if we are to signal dialogue willingness, also be prepared to make active offers. I think there are different possibilities, Mr Federal Minister. One way could be to make real real offers to the Czech government, especially in the field of renewable energy, in the field of know-how, but also in the area of financing and development – I am thinking here of environmental promotions in the cross-border field. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22850	Mrs Pfeiffer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22871	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The management of the controversial Temelin nuclear power plant confirms for the first time that technical incidents have occurred since the reactor was activated last week. There were minor disturbances, but they had no influence on physical tests, and the problems had been solved by the staff of the power plant. Now I'm wondering, What would have been the case if these problems had been of a greater nature and could no longer have been resolved by employees? What consequences would we have expected? Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine about 3 billion schilling – this huge sum! – cost the radiation protection measures for Upper Austria if Temelin goes into operation. Imagine what alternatives could be financed by these means! For example, the pre-financing of some coal-damp or gas-damp power plants that could provide the Czech Republic with risk-free electricity would have been possible. But unfortunately, I have to note that some country politicians – especially the Upper Austrian head of state – have come up with quite late that an atomic threat is emerging beyond the border. If the protests had been earlier and more intensively articulated at the political level, then this development might have been quite different. Much, much earlier – as now – one should have demonstrated! The concern of those people living close to the nuclear power plant is very great. With the courage of despair, they come in and hope for insight from the Czech government. I am sorry that today's state of affairs makes it clear to me that neither the Czech Government nor the Czech Parliament will be deluded. This focuses on the economic factor and the business sector. A hope remains that this current occasion contributes to the understanding that only the general exit from nuclear energy can be a future perspective. Nuclear power from France or Germany is also produced in reactors whose irradiated fuel rods have a half-life of 25,000 years. In view of this, the discussion on essential safety standards acts like a distraction maneuver. In the sense of a responsible policy towards our descendants, we must turn Europe-wide, even worldwide, away from the production of nuclear energy. The fight against Temelin may have been too late. The calls of environmental organisations were not taken seriously at the time. However, the movement against temelin has solved some buttons in the brains and has brought insight into the danger of this technology. We Social Democrats will continue our energies for the fight against life-threatening technologies. We call on the Federal Government and the competent Minister of State to step up efforts in the sense of aid measures and not from threats to our neighbouring countries to get out of nuclear energy. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22918	The next speaker is Mrs Anna Elisabeth Achatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e22942	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pirklhuber – unfortunately he is not in the house now or here in the hall! [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes!]] The debate on Temelin has been taking place in this House for years, for at least four years, time and again. [[Abg. Oils: Unfortunately!]] I have to say that we all have to agree that politics has failed in this case. It has failed quite simply until now. If you say the FPÖ applications with the junk animation were the wrong way, I wonder: Please, why didn't you propose a better way? What way has this Federal Government gone, and how successful has it been? – I think the answer is on the table. The only ones who can still prevent the worst are the people who have demonstrated in cold for days and weeks by day, by night. These are fathers, these are mothers, children, farmers – really a great wave of solidarity goes through the country. There's nothing about show or actionism, but it's really a big concern. It's not populism! I do not feel that God knows how to call to defend the Upper Austrian state government. However, a unanimous decision has been taken by the Upper Austrian Landtag on the exit of Temelin. We have brought this unanimous decision of the Upper Austrian Land Day into the National Council, but unfortunately God voted the then Federal Government of SPÖ and ÖVP and also the Greens against this unanimous Landtag decision of Upper Austria. So you can't do it that easy. It is really a failure of the old federal government, that is no question at all. Mrs Prammer! They didn't get through. I agree with you that you really tried to be honest. But you just didn't manage to stand up against whoever. I believe that the only answer – which the people not only expect in Upper Austria – is now a very clear statement, are very clear words of politics, and these clear words must follow very clear actions. That's the only way! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is now no more than that we say to our Czech neighbours: Either you go into this environmental impact assessment and allow it, or the question of Temelin is not a question at the accession negotiations, but the crucial question! – Another answer can no longer be given to this behaviour of the Czech Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23006	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23027	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The border nuclear power plant Temelin has recently been highly stylized as hardly any other topic in the past. Austria has always played a clear role and has operated since 5. ==References====External links== We have shown our European neighbours how to have sufficient energy even without nuclear power. Dear Mrs Pepper! The country of Upper Austria has already made available PCs to Czech environmental groups five years ago in order to make it easier for them to present what a nonsense Temelin is also in energy policy terms. Four years ago, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pavlovec, who has tried in the Czech Republic to make a mood that has really tried to bring with dialogue and willingness to talk to the Czech politicians and the population that Temelin is a nonsense. Unfortunately, it didn't use anything. At the Austrian parliamentary level, the uniform line of the past has again prevailed. I am glad that the Committee on the Environment has found the unanimity in the area of TEC Temelin and that this is also presented outside. I would remind you of the debate before the summer: Again and again, the opposition parties have accused the government of doing too little to stop this insanity project Temelin. I am grateful to all the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for this agreement, as well as to our Federal Minister Molterer, who called this cooperation perfect. With God you can't be proud of the Czech colleagues: While it was already difficult for Prime Minister Václav Klaus to talk to him about Temelin at all, and one could find a basis of conversation under the following Prime Minister Tosovsky and address various things under normal conditions, unfortunately, this situation under the current socialist leadership has changed completely again. The Socialists still do not seem to be fully informed in this regard. The fact that the Czech Minister for Industry, Mr Gregr, acknowledges that, with Temelin's commissioning, capacity surpluses will come to about 20 megawatts, and at the same time, as we have to say with regret, we are holding on to the project, shows that the Czech Republic is not only politically, but probably also objectively overwhelmed. The fact that the President-in-Office of the Council has joined the sanctions and refused a deadline for discussion with reference to the sanctions recognises the ambiguity and superiority of the Czech policy with regard to temelin. That's why I'm very glad it was on 31 December. At last October in Brno, a meeting of German Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel with Prime Minister Milos Zeman is to be held. I am convinced that our Federal Chancellor will present the displeasure and, above all, the concerns of the Austrian population about the way in which the Czech nuclear and environmental policy is handled. Prime Minister Zeman said that it was very unfortunate and not particularly encouraging for the friendly relations – and even less for the accession talks with the European Union – that he was still making conditions for a discussion about Temelin. That can't be the fine school of diplomacy! Mr Zeman does not even need to look at Austria, but may he take note of and act accordingly on the contradictory statements on the Temelin nuclear power station in his own country. Of course, the question arises of how valuable it is for Mr Zeman to shape the future for our children, but also for his children. It is especially dear to us, and I appeal to everyone in this House to continue to document it with a single line! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23081	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23103	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the debate, as it is being held today, is interesting to hear, but there are a few marks to be made here in order to prevent a distortion of history. If you know that in the last Federal Government the then Environment Minister Martin Bartenstein has put in absolutely a zero programme on this question, this is, of course, surprising. I think it is also his honor to say the truth here, namely that he would have liked to comment against Temelin, but that the then Vice Chancellor and today's Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel – who, as we have already done, preferred to deal with Mr. Titmeyer in his diplomacy rather than try to get to the brink of these problems – has, so to speak, imposed a muzzle on him. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Please don't have a fairytale hour now!]] That's not a fairy tale hour, dear colleague Ellmauer! Unfortunately, it's even thicker – I can't save you that –: If one also knows that the representatives of the EIAs in the European Parliament have committed a truly massive betrayal of the Austrian anti-atomic policy, so to speak, to manifest the European Union's nuclear policy, that they have acted against alternative energies and against a stop, then it is also clear that the Czech Government does not give particular credibility to the representatives of this party, who are now in Austria, among other things. As far as the commitment in Upper Austria is concerned, I say – and you only need to read the APA messages in this regard – only one thing: Mr. Landeshupt reads in a Czech newspaper that there has been an accident and then stirs up over the APA. – So, ladies and gentlemen, if this is the commitment of the Upper Austrian leadership, the Upper Austrian head of state and the Austrian foreign policy, I no longer wonder that there has been no success in this Causa so far! I also believe that these phrases, which the Federal Chancellor has given in Biarritz in recent days on this issue, really seem rather ridiculous. He was then told accordingly by his Eastern European expert Busek because of his destructive positions. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Those exactly correspond to those of Parliament!]] I really see a problem in that the current Austrian Federal Government is absolutely unbelievable on this issue. Of course, we all hope that the one who is not yet adapted in this causa and who can still be trusted – that is the current Minister Molterer – will move a lot on this matter. However, I am convinced that the conversation that Mr Schüssel will hold in the Czech Republic will certainly not bring positive results, and I hope that it will not end with insults.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23160	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Count. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23181	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My first words here in this House were: "There's no safe nuclear power station." At that time, as my colleague has just said, the current Minister for Economic Affairs of the Minister for the Environment was. I'll have that clarified. That is why it should be our every effort not only to see our own position, but also the position of the people in the Czech Republic. This is also an important aspect which has not yet been included. Why is the situation so corrupt now? – The Greens are going out here, demanding, demanding, demanding and saying: This and this should have been done or should have been done. – One thing I have to keep before you: That the German Green Environment Minister has now agreed to a 32-year moratorium for the German nuclear power plants was certainly a great driving force for the realization of Temelins! [[Contradiction of the Abg. Oils.]] Sure! That's it! [[Abg. Ollinger: This is not a moratorium!]] That must have been a moratorium! The German Oeko-Institut found that within one year all German nuclear power plants could be shut down and that there would also be a spare bottleneck power of 12.5 percent. That's a fact. This has been examined twice and, accordingly, has been included in the considerations. Nevertheless, the German nuclear industry was built the bridge, and now we have the German nuclear power plants for another 32 years. This must certainly have been with the point that the Czech Government has finally led to the construction of the Temelin nuclear power plant and, unfortunately, to put it into operation. Mr President. ==References== October, we have our State Day. As far as I remember, a colleague has already mentioned it – on 26 May. ==References====External links== Many of us remember how the whole thing became a fact for us in the morning: surprisingly, from one minute to the other. Perhaps, even as an incentive for a Europe-wide rethinking, one could explain this day as a European day of mourning and place the appropriate emphasis here in order to ensure that nuclear power plants – at least in their current form – are scrapped immediately and permanently. Mr Mühlbachler said that all were asked to provide assistance. What kind of help should we give now? – The thing is corrupt: The plant has practically entered into operation. If it fails to stop the operation before taking up the regular operation, the structure is irradiated. The disposal costs of the material will then be huge. Even in Germany, there are no calculations of the costs that would really be incurred in this case. My contribution to this – Mr Hofmann mentioned it – is: The investment costs for temelin are estimated at around 43.5 billion schilling – and the additional costs for the infrastructure are about 50 billion schilling. That would be 5 000 to 10 000 biomass heating plants. That would be at least 30 000 stationary jobs. Perhaps, Mr Federal Minister, you will be able to continue your work of conviction, which has been very good so far, to bring about the surplus of wood that the Czech Republic has, and perhaps to achieve a rethinking. We were able to maintain a very positive aspect in our motion for a resolution – and I would like to thank you very much, Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Brix, for it was very controversial in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy at the time if we could take up this point on nuclear power. Here we now see the positive aspect: At the time, it was possible to include the possibility that imports of nuclear power to Austria could not be excluded in the event of the existence of appropriate technological conditions. We now see in it the implementation of the realization that it is only possible on this basis to obtain nuclear power from the market. That is the point we wanted to reach: I wrote ten years ago that it is the only way to get the nuclear current over the market. Here we can now implement this in general. However – and this should be mentioned again –: The Greens voted against the ElWOG-Novelle at the time. They have not agreed to also take this atomic passus into the ElWOG. Since Mr Brix here addressed the situation with Ukraine and explained that the Federal Government is not prepared to promote foreign projects, so to speak, so to speak, in order to allow further measures to be followed, I would like to mention that, on the part of the Austrian municipal credit, we only decided, two weeks ago, unanimously to support two projects in the Czech Republic. I believe that this should also be included in the considerations. We did not make this decision easy – there were also other voices. In any case, we have included these projects in the promotion. Federal Minister! I should like to ask you, perhaps, to put this moment back in the balance. To find out from you, Mrs Pepper, that something should have been done earlier: I'll give you a hundred percent right. Something should have been done earlier. Only I believe that, regardless of the fact that we were perhaps only a little sparsely represented here at the time of your speech, we are not the right recipients, nor are we the Federal Minister. The President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Mag. Mr Schweitzer, has described to you the entire development of the subject of Temelin: the many applications made in this context, the many initiatives that have taken, but which have unfortunately not been implemented at the time. My colleague Achatz said that Temelin should not be a question for the Czech Republic's accession to the EU, but the crucial question. Perhaps one could link this with the argument that if the power plant goes fully into operation, the radiation into the building will be so large that the scrapping will cost a lot of what one might expect now in return from imaginary exports.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23236	The next speaker is Mr Grabner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23257	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard it all the time today: Time's pushing. Since the activation of the reactor has already taken place for the test operation, the remaining time must be used to prevent the complete commissioning of all open questions and to reach the visit of Temelins by an independent expert commission. Ladies and gentlemen! German Environment Minister Jürgen Trittin, who has been mentioned several times today, recently noted that Temelin does not comply with either German or French safety standards. Therefore, it cannot satisfy the European either. Even before the reactor started, there were some irregularities and pans. ==References== October, after the start of the test operation, as we have already heard today, an alarming incident occurred in the case of a combustion engine. This was also due to be the chairman of the Czech Atomic Energy Authority. In another Czech nuclear power plant, in Dukovany, a fire caused by a faulty cable recently broke out. These events illustrate the state of Czech nuclear technology. In addition, the uncertainty factor increases by the fact that temelin is an untested blend of eastern and western technology. Every technology for itself is already a safety risk, as accidents occurred in the west and east – you think only of the super-GAU in Chernobyl. The risk of accidents therefore increases in the event of a mixture. A dangerous experiment! How did a German politician once mean? – A technology that dominates man – and not man’s technology – is nothing! – That’s why, I think, you have to say: No nuclear power plants! A complete environmental impact assessment involving the neighbouring countries of the Czech Republic is essential! The power plant in Temelin will produce almost exclusively electricity for export. That's what we've heard today. Austria may not import electricity from third countries whose installations do not comply with the standard European technology under the Energy Liberalisation Act. This law, ladies and gentlemen, applies to the nuclear current from the Czech Republic if Temelin goes to the grid. Austria must also raise competition concerns about electricity exports at dumping prices from temelin in the European bodies. Despite the disability of an Austrian parliamentary delegation during the visit to the nuclear power plant – which we have already heard today – it has been prevented from visiting the neural points of construction – it has been able to detect significant shortcomings: For example, the emergency power station is located directly below the reactor and is therefore destroyed first in the case of a nuclear fusion. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Noldi Grabner has lost his way!]] Unfortunately, neither the Czech energy suppliers nor the government have yet responded to the concerns of Austria and the discussion in Europe. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] – I think you could take this seriously, Schweitzer Karl, given the many thousands of people who are demonstrating there and who are affected! But not only the people there are concerned, but it concerns us all over Austria – and not only in Austria, but throughout Europe! That is why I would like to say: I am pleased that there is a four-party request, and I hope that this will help to solve this problem better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Bravo, Noldi!]] 23.2 2
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23311	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of Abg. Noldi! With your spokesperson carousel, you caught the environmental speaker, didn't you?]] [[Call: The carousel is a wise man, you're a white man]] [[Further calls to the liberals and counter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am not talking about the whites or others, but about Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23362	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 26. April 1986: Chernobyl – reactor accident. Six days later, the Soviet news agency TASS reported that there was a harry in the nuclear mile to Chernobyl. Seven months later, Soviet newspapers reported that Chernobyl claimed 250 deaths, and in April 1990 medical consequences came gradually to light to diseases such as thyroid cancer, leukemia and the so-called Chernobyl AIDS, i.e. an immunodeficiency caused by radioactivity. In October 1990 the news came: Chernobyl effects go into the trillions of schilling. The reason why I quote this here and today, ladies and gentlemen, is that I believe that, although the country of Upper Austria has already tried to do information work in the Czech Republic, the Czech people, about the consequences of a reactor accident and also for the future, this was simply too little and it would have been necessary to discuss even more intensively with the people in the Czech Republic about these consequences which I have read here in short form. As President Havel said: It was a big mistake that he did not appear more vehemently against Temelin. I mean, the environment is all about: It affects people, it affects animals, and it affects the plant world. It cannot, therefore, be said that although there is a system in the European Union on the degree of curving of cucumbers, there is a regulation on where "tomatoes" and "paradeisers" can be said, there is no regulation on nuclear safety in EU law. – Mr Gartlehner, you may clap, yes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call:... they clap, but in the EU they are without When and But]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The new security spokesman! Kurt! What have you become? Do you have "buildings" now? "Building" must be free now!]] It is therefore welcomed by the SPÖ that there is a four-party request which states that an increased continuation of the Austrian nuclear power policy must be carried out. Above all, however, we believe that the Czechs must be offered financial means of exit. After all, there were 43 billion schilling of investment costs for Temelin. If we now stand for a nuclear power-free Central Europe, then the Federal Government – Mr Schweitzer – must, you can smile: it is serious! – also offer financial escape aid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not about regulating cucumbers, but not protecting the environment and people. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: And tractor seats!]] In this context, it is also necessary to require the inclusion of nuclear safety provisions into the legal system. We have managed, under Chancellor Vrannitzky, to make active labour market policy in the EU on the issue and to oblige all countries in the EU to take action for it. This federal government must also succeed in ensuring that nuclear safety provisions are incorporated into the EU's legal system! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23433	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23462	Mr President. Minister! Deputies! Perhaps I should repeat my colleague's speech. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: But not the same speech!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Most of the listeners would not notice it!]] Then, I think you'll understand. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Which have you read before?]] Mr Schweitzer, hear now Here you go! For you too, there are certainly arguments in the field of anti-atomic policies, where it would be necessary for you to understand them better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As Lower Austrian Members, I understand the concerns of the people, especially in the border regions. The current case of Temelin is not just the "tip of the Erzberg" to which the attention of the public is currently directed. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The Erzberg has no tip!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Erzberg has a plateau!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The fact is that at a time when the majority of European countries do not have nuclear power plants or have already decided to exit nuclear energy and when the EU is promoting alternative forms of energy, the Czech Government's decision to put the Temelin nuclear power plant into operation is all the more regrettable. However, this must not prevent us from continuing to work at all levels at an exodus of the Czech Republic from nuclear power and to draw even more attention to the dangers and risks of our neighbours' political responsibilities. All the more so, however, there is also an honest and transparent nuclear policy at all levels. Many statements of the past show that there is no such game and that the current black and blue government is driving a strange game. We remember: The last European elections were scarcely a few weeks ago, for example, the ÖVP could no longer remember the promises made against the population. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, from the anti-atomic campaigner and ÖVP delegation leader Ursula Stenzel suddenly and quickly became an atomic lobbyist, for example in the case of the border-near Slovakian nuclear power plant Bohunice. Stenzel's criticism of Austria's anti-atomic policy can be read in an interview of the daily newspaper "Die Presse" for everyone, especially for those ladies and gentlemen of this house who have already forgotten it again. Stenzel even managed to make a central call for the Lower Austrian Land Day – it was a unanimous decision in the Lower Austrian Landtag – and the past Federal Government as a condition for the accession of Slovakia to the EU. All our national and international initiatives become a farce through statements by such EIA politicians! The interests of the people in the border regions and their concern for the safety of the scrap reactors are being ridiculed, and that is really sad and sad! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you find this funny and make fun of your calls, I would like to tell you, Mr President, after you have already been very stressed with your speeches in this House: The people in the border regions, who block the crossings, have an honest and well-founded fear and will certainly not forget your ridiculous calls and your comments on this subject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This House, as we have already heard, will adopt a joint motion for a resolution by all the parliamentary parties against Temelin and thus against nuclear policy in our neighbouring country of the Czech Republic. The content of this request will include increased aid to our neighbours in the process of exit from nuclear energy generation, the ban on nuclear imports from all third countries, and measures against price dumping by Czech and Slovak nuclear power. Ladies and gentlemen! Our demand is: No cheaper nuclear power from the Czech Republic! As we know, today the economy is already attracting cheap nuclear power from Slovakia and the Czech Republic, via Germany. It's got to be stopped! The motion for a resolution to be adopted today also refers, among other things, to that. Ladies and gentlemen! What we need in our anti-atomic policy is more honesty, more enforceability and, above all, a common language. We need to step up our arguments at the level of the European Union. We need to be lobbying all EU candidate countries, especially the Czech Republic and Slovakia, for appropriate financial assistance to get out of nuclear energy. We must, together with the population in Austria, but also in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, help our arguments to break through. The Czech Government's decision is certainly not to be seen as definitive and irreversible, especially since the Czech politicians are certainly aware that they have a clot on their feet with their decisions regarding EU enlargement. In this context, Lower Austria and the whole of Austria are not only allowed to see Temelin alone, but all nuclear power plants positioned around the borders, including those in Slovakia. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I'm looking for you: Do it! The High House will be Support them in the interests of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23590	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23612	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that much has already been said about the problem of Temelin and the four-party agreement. Allow me to add a new aspect to the debate in the short term. I believe that the security argument, which has been raised many times today, is one of the key arguments. With regard to this safety argument, we need to be aware that it does not matter whether nuclear power plants are within the European Union or outside the European Union, because, as previous speakers have mentioned, there is no absolute safe power plant, whether they are nuclear power plants or conventional power plants. Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the further procedure concerning temelin. Federal Minister! If I have understood you correctly, if this demand for temelin is to be met, then the EU's enlargement is in fact nothing against it. That's where I ask you: What about Dukovany? Is Dukovany no longer a topic? And what about Mochovce? – Three years ago, we worked intensively on Mochovce. I do not know whether in Mochovce the requirements we place on Temelin – legitimately – were met. The Federal Chancellor went to Slovakia and warmly welcomed Slovakia to the big Europe. He will do everything he can to allow Slovakia to join as quickly as possible. That is what I ask you, Minister: Despite Mochovce? And what about Krško? Will we block the negotiations with Slovenia in the Energy chapter until something changes in Krško, or is that not a matter anymore? The second point I would like to raise concerns less you, Mr Federal Minister, than your counterpart, the Minister of the Interior. Since the Chernobyl accident that has often been cited, it is perfectly clear to us that we also have something to do in the country. Much has happened domestically, for example, through civil protection organisations exercises are carried out. In one of these exercises, there was a meeting in Laa. It was a decontamination exercise carried out in cooperation with the State of Lower Austria, the district chief teams, the voluntary fire brigades, the Federal Army and the Red Cross. The exercise has worked well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Experience has been gained. Minister! Experiences in these exercises are always the same. It works... – Please calm down! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] Get involved in the secret service, you might understand more about that! Experience gained has shown that a small region or district can be covered. However, it is necessary for all forces to be collected and concentrated. However, in the event that this event should be more comprehensive, there are defects, both in equipment and in communication. We have seen again and again... – Young, come down if you want to bring a word donation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] We have seen over and over again that the radio systems are not aligned. Under Minister of Interior Schlögl there have been attempts to introduce the blue light radio together with the German army. First, however, the Federal Army has adopted itself, and now the radio system in the field of blue light organizations is also being resettled. So we extend the problem without solving it. Ladies and gentlemen! In Laa, Minister of the Interior, Strasser, on the security aspects, said that the problems of illegal border crossings at the EU's external border should be solved by the Czechs in the future, we are now also calling for the Czechs to be guaranteed without doing our own homework to ensure our internal security in the event of reactor accidents. I know, Mr Federal Minister, that I am speaking to the wrong address, but I am telling you at least as a member of the government: Our population is entitled to security! Let us guarantee these, and let us make the corresponding contribution to Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23678	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23699	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We MEPs have jointly tabled a motion for a resolution and have called on the government to do everything at European and bilateral level to prevent the final commissioning of the Temelin nuclear power plant. Ladies and gentlemen! The government has also done something, but it has achieved almost nothing! One can now discuss whether it is useful to put at risk good neighbourly contacts in favour of a truly urgent desire of one's own people. However, I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it makes no sense at all to endanger these good neighbourly relations without just one millimeter going on in the dispute. In this context, I am concerned about the statement by Miloš Zeman, who believes that he is now relying much more on Germany than Austria in the question of EU enlargement. This government has managed to play Austria's key and middle role towards the Czech Republic in record time, not least because of its inconsistencies in the matter of Temelin. We must continue the dialogue with the Czech Republic, for one thing is clear to us and this government must also be clear: In the Causa Temelin there is a conflict with the Czech government and with Czech politicians, but not with the Czech people. There must therefore be an objective work of conviction on our part, because we know very well that the Czech politician's own population is being misinformed. For example, the former Prime Minister Václav Klaus has explained to us in the "ZiB 2" programme that Temelin is one of the most technologically mature nuclear power plants in the world, and he will not only tell us that, of course, he is also telling us in the whole Czech Republic. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: He believes that!]] As a Waldviertler mandater, I know how important the good understanding between the Czech and the Austrian population is, and we are therefore called upon to see that in an intrusive and consensus-seeking way, we save the few things that still need to be saved. Minister Molterer! I call on you to do everything possible to make an environmental impact assessment for Temelin a reality. I believe that it is also necessary to ensure that appropriate early warning systems are installed and that everything is clearly defined in the field of emergency plans, as the people at the border have a right to these measures. Federal Minister! However, I also call on you to re-route the climate of conversation with the Czech neighbours in a more peaceful way. As a Lower Austrian representative, I see very clearly how much oil is poured into the fire by the Lower Austrian FPÖ in this causa, so to speak, and I believe that we should be against this procedure, because the last thing we can need is that of the Ladies and gentlemen, the EU's approach to accession is an unfair one with regard to our country! We should not lose sight of this despite all major difficulties and legitimate outrages around Temelin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23740	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23761	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! All fears have been confirmed: Temelin has started the test operation and will soon go to the grid. None of our neighbors have stopped from this insanity project, our arguments have been swept by the table and partly smiled, and finally the commissioning – at least I felt it – was a embarrassing demonstration of power and indifference. Finally, this was a sad example of how one should not live in neighborhood and how one simply cannot deal with one another! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We know that this prestige has a risky technology that would not be allowed in the European Union. This prestige project Temelin is also an economic insanity, because it is becoming increasingly evident that already dumping exports are being used. There is no domestic need, and we know that some of the electricity exports are already offered below the cost of production. However, in the light of these facts and events, it must still be legitimate today to ask a few questions, such as the questions: How was political responsibility actually perceived? Did Austria really do everything to prevent this nuclear power station? How to evaluate the contacts of the Foreign Minister at the time? Were they rather good, or did the shot go to the back? And were there, above all, the same language arrangement among the negotiators? A very important question, ladies and gentlemen, is also: Why has there not been a financial offer to the Czech Republic so that alternatives can perhaps really be financed? We know that in the border area, especially in Upper Austria, a lot of money needs to be invested in civil protection measures in the future. That means that we will also have to take a lot of money to prevent dangers. I am pleased that this joint motion for a resolution has been tabled. We call on the Federal Government to continue the Austrian anti-atomic course by all means, and we call for a definition of European security standards in particular with regard to Easter enlargement. I also say here: This must be an issue during the accession negotiations, and we also believe that the Austrian Federal Government should once again make an offer for the exit to the Czech Government, because without financial assistance it will not be possible for the Czech Republic, and that would be fatal. It is ultimately about the safety and health of the people living there and, above all, people in our border regions!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23804	The next speaker is Mr Rada. He has the same speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23825	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! After 25 speakers on the Temelin power plant alone, most of the arguments have fallen, and I would therefore like to concentrate only on a few few and support them. It's clear: It does not take us a step further in Austrian nuclear policy if we now make mutual debt allocations here, who has carried one or another request or not contributed it or what the past German government has failed to do. The fact is, when it comes to security issues, that there can be 100 percent security in no technical plant and not at all in a nuclear power plant! And if we threaten our neighbor with demonstrations and blockades now, then we have achieved that this will initiate a new discussion and set in motion, but we will certainly not achieve the shutdown of Temelin! Temelin has not been built from today to tomorrow. There was a very, very long construction period, and already at that time our Environment Ministers at that time could have achieved very much with a lot of diplomacy and achieved success with diplomatic exit scenarios. With a power plant already in operation, to want to achieve something with it today, seems to me to be a bit limited to utopia! I would like to know this as an accusation to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, whose economic wings import very cheap electricity from abroad. We all know from which power plants this comes when, for example, the Styrian energy society is merging with the French in order to be able to offer favourable tariffs! For those who believe that we can achieve something in this regard in connection with EU accession, I would just like to quote something from the "FORMAT": "... and by making Temelin bowls an EU problem, he provides for new Zoff."
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23864	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23885	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We will not only be judged by all Austrians, but will certainly also be judged by our children and the following generations in the future, as we are doing today, and I think that should be the top priority in considering this problem. It is not only a question of making forward-looking considerations now, but it is a matter of ensuring health and life, and in this sense it is important and necessary that we decide together here today to make a request. For me, however, it is also a question of how to deal with the fears and needs of the people and to give this audience, and I believe that it is quite legitimate and legitimate that many citizens are now piling at the borders out of fear to express their displeasure there, because they hope that this will create a return to politics and that they will be able to support it. With this in mind, it is remarkable that, for example, participative Partik-Pablé also criticises this right of freedom of expression in demonstrations and is repeatedly shown with their fingers to the demonstrators, be it the demonstrators on Thursday, whether the students against study fees or demonstrators on this matter. She always goes on it and says: Demonstration costs only money! [[Abg. Steibl: That really costs money! The repair of my car cost me 26 000 s!]] And that all the more surprises me when I think that it was not too stupid for the head of state in the southernmost federal state to pilge up to the north to prove solidarity there! This kind of argument that this colleague is making is very strange! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I have only one central question: To what extent will we succeed in making a common policy on this matter and in solving the questions of the present and the future together? To what extent will the government be able to enforce the overpowered economy, which has only one in mind, namely, to secure cheap electricity for Prince Horns and other major entrepreneurs in the future? Whether it will succeed in establishing a common policy in the sense of reason, health and survival, I very much dare to doubt in this case, but I hope that the foreign policy of the future will be a little more successful than that of the past if we still have one of the worst Foreign Ministers now as Federal Chancellor! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23929	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e23947	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, hardly anyone here will vote against this four-party proposal, with which we are committed to preventing Temelin, as far as it goes! Do you know what I feel? – I feel the highest respect for all the people who have been on the border for days and weeks and there for fear – for fear! – because they do not live more than 50 and 60 kilometres away from this nuclear power plant, for example farmers who have stood up with their tractors and have neglected the work at home, for fear and not for populism! I would like to comment on three points. The people who are demonstrating there are against this double-beddedness, which can be felt here again and again. Federal Minister! You have said again today that you are reserved to check how safe the power plant is until the treaty is reached to the point of negotiating energy with the Czechs. Do you know what the people there are saying? – They say: Do you really believe that, until this chapter is finally negotiated, anything else can be saved? Until then, Temelin is in full operation, and therefore these actions will no longer be targeted. Another example of double-dwelling: Young people take part in the demonstrations in a very large number, and the President of the Upper Austrian National School Council, Mr Riedl, has decided – and I am with him – that the students are free to go there, demonstrate and express their displeasure. So far, so good. The same president, however, punishes those students who demonstrate against the tuition fees. These are expected to have a bad amount note or other consequences. – And that’s double-beddedness that the young people don’t understand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is also the Upper Austrian head of state who plays the biggest opponent of Temelin. In the back, however, he negotiates with one of the largest nuclear power generators about whether he can't put the OKA there cheaply! That's double-beddedness, ladies and gentlemen! And if today I read in the Upper Austrian News that the President of the Czech Parliament says that he has been confirmed by the highest political level and several decision-makers in Austria that there will be no junk animation between EU accession and Temelin, then I understand that people on the border no longer know what they should think of the political actions! – I think we have to stop these double practices. We have to give people the confidence that we are there for them and not even act a little bit like that once and for all! The government must not be stopped from doing something, but the government must do something immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24004	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24034	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! After this debate and since I have been busy with Temelin for a very long time and I have also been with a delegation in Prague, I have a little the feeling – in order to express it quite honestly – that all the political groups, and I do not take advantage of it, have always been a bit confused. One could prove this in detail: I have remembered this, and it has already been mentioned today that Mr Schweitzer, now your coalition partner, has once clearly shown the failure of ÖVP-EU Members in a vote. At the same time, I got to Clinch with him again and again because, for example, at times when Meciar was standing around the government office, it was clear that it would have been counterproductive if, as it were, we would have puddled up a lot because we would have helped Meciar win a election. We have therefore, in fact, rejected your requests, because of course this anti-accession effect was behind them. There have been some good phases. With the greens it is clear: They always get up there – I saw that at the power plant Lambach – where you can sit in the scene, Wurst whether there is an au or not. We all play – and I do not take out my own group in part – a bit with people’s fears. I myself am Upper Austrian and live about 200 kilometres away from this Temelin power plant. At the latest since Chernobyl, I also learned that this is a technology we don't want! I say this quite clearly once: The Upper Austrian SPÖ, but probably all the other parties also do not really want this power plant in 50 or 60 kilometers away from our border, and we should say that clearly again and again! But neither should we push around and say: This is a scrap reactor à la Bohunice!, because he certainly is not. We also know that in reality there are two problems that we could not make transparent, neither the Czech population nor the Czech politicians. After all, there has been a vote in the Council of Ministers, which has been very narrow at eight to eleven. So we all have to get our own noses. We didn't make different things! First – the security problem: Even in this mix of East and West technology, which concerns us, we are not entirely indifferent when we consider that we have prevented loans and that the Czechs have eventually switched to East Technology. Secondly, the economic problem: We cannot make it clear to them that jobs are lost in North Bohemia and that in South Bohemia a quarter of this number of jobs are being re-established, that in reality the market in Germany is being supplied at dumping prices and power plants such as stadiums are already being shut down in Germany in advance, because the Germans receive cheap Czech electricity. The German trade unions have already accepted this argument. Finally, I would like to say: The most meaningful thing for Austria and to prevent and put Temelin back out of operation would actually be that the Czech Republic would join the EU as soon as possible, because then the Czech Republic could not continue to operate with its dumping prices, and the power plant would collapse and have to be dropped down for economic reasons. It would be time to talk about it honestly over the party borders – we have talked about it all too often anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24088	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke on an actual correction. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24113	High house! Mrs Schasching has claimed that I am opposed to the right of demonstration, in particular against the Thursday demonstrations. – This claim is wrong in this way. I recognize the right to demonstrate, but I am opposed to violence at demonstrations, as was the case with the Thursday demonstrations of the frequent.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24146	Mrs Prammer is speaking. Same time of speech. It is for the time being the last word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24167	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer's speech has motivated me to change my speech. I would like to go back 20 years or 22 years: In 1978, when Austria made very, very close a very wise decision. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Against the will of the "Sun king"!]] At that time, the views in Austria have gone across the country Austria was not uniform against nuclear power plants, but the Austrian population, which people in Austria have acted very wisely – not only in this decision at the time, but above all after all, when there was a national consensus against nuclear power plants and one agreed to make anti-atomic policy in Europe. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Against Kreisky!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Did you actually vote with No at the time?]] It was the Freedom Party that broke this consensus. It is perfectly clear that government parties argue differently than opposition parties that government parties argue differently than environmental organisations, but it was already significant that in all the efforts, in all the debates on common strategies, the Greens and the environmental organizations have always brought this understanding to us: that it is about finding a common strategy – but it has not been for the liberals! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] The liberals have been two things: first, to show cheap propaganda and second, to be clear and clear: We do not want Czech Republic in the European Union! – You have often expressed that enough. [[Abg. Gaugg: How do you want to know?]] I would like to tell you clearly that your argumentation – including the breach of this common procedure, with this common strategy – has contributed a great deal to the fact that very little to nothing has happened in the Czech population. [[Abg. Böhacker: He has exposed you, colleague Schweitzer!]] This has always been the important thing and the essential thing: whether, if you are careful about it, you are threatening an entire population, an entire state, or not. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mr Schweitzer has revealed you!]] It is a matter of heart to you today: no enlargement of the European Union! Against this background, you are motivated to set up your activities. [[Abg. Böhacker: He has revealed your failure!]] Mr Molterer! I wish you good luck with these liberal partners in the planned procedure, with all the steps that will follow. I've already understood your sounds – I also carry them; I'm just wondering: Where are the partners here? Where is the strong alliance partner – also in the Federal Government – in the field of anti-atomic policy? [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't worry!]] One needs strong alliance partners on both sides in this question, I know exactly – and I know what I am talking about. I was just about to show how difficult it was – even during my time – to make anti-atomic policies. But that doesn't matter because we really want Temelin... – Dear "Thanks", Mr. Graf! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You are the greatest failure of the last coalition!]] It was the Freedom Party, which has repeatedly poured oil into the fire, the Freedom Party, which was a heart concern not to let the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary – all our neighbours – go to the European Union, and there the nuclear power plants have been a welcome argument. Mr Schweitzer. They asked what had been done. [[Abg. Böhacker: This speech hurt you!]] I'd like to quote something to you. [[Abg. Böhacker: He hurt you! It was noticeable, he revealed you!]] The Council stresses that, in accordance with points 6 and 7, as regards the countries operating reactors, which cannot be retrofitted to internationally accepted safety standards with reasonable cost, the strategies adopted for the energy sector must provide for the early decommissioning of these reactors and an agreed timetable for decommissioning in accordance with the priorities of the accession partnerships and the requirements of the relevant nuclear safety funds. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This was a breakthrough at European level, and it happened during the Austrian Presidency. These are the conclusions of the Vienna Council. It has been my work that this breakthrough has succeeded in talking about European safety standards, finally developing common strategies in the nuclear field at European level, so that finally a start could be made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The action plan of the Federal Government at that time has provided for a large number of measures, not at all short-term measures. I would remind you that a point – namely the amendment of the EURATOM Treaty – is still present within this anti-atomic plan as an unfinished point. The current Federal Government will be measured to see if it can actually make movement with the European Member States, with the European partners in order to be able to change this EURATOM Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen! The EURATOM Treaty must become more democratic, the EURATOM Treaty must become the instrument on security, and it must and can also be established within the EURATOM Treaty that the European Union is taking a decision in the direction that no new nuclear power plants may be built. This opportunity now exists, and it will be up to the Austrian Federal Government to take up this opportunity, to implement it and to go to work with extreme tenacity. Mr Schweitzer! One thing I would like to say: It is always the question with which instruments and with what arguments one tries to convince a counterpart, a partner or partners. It always depends on how to do it. It is not a question of threatening the Czechs first or of making such absurd statements as: We buy you the nuclear power plant!, but it is about how we can develop strategies or alternative concepts together with the Czech population. The Bohemian region needs employment. It must also be clear that the company CEZ has a future, because there are many people working there who are afraid of their job, and that is legitimate and needs to be answered. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's embarrassing, your speech!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] There needs to be put in place, where the strategies need to be developed. This is bonework, that is small work – and not the plasmative populism of the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24377	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 334 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 38.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Ulrike Simaund Comrades on an Austrian Climate Action Plan to achieve the Kyoto Objectives (355 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24429	We shall now proceed to item 5 of the agenda. Does the rapporteur wish to speak? - That's not the case. We are going into the debate. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24460	Mr President. – Unfortunately, the Federal Minister is no longer present. - High house! [[Calls: He's present]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. Minister calls!]] I am pleased that Mr Strasser will listen to the report on climate protection, but I would rather that the Minister for the Environment would be there. In a few weeks, the Climate Change Conference will take place in The Hague, which will be a next crucial conference on climate protection. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – What is it? Do you also want to talk about climate protection? Austria still has no mandatory action plan on how to achieve the Kyoto objective. – I understand that the hour is advanced, but it’s still an important topic, and if you don’t always talk in between, then we’re all done faster and faster at home. [[Objection and interlocutors with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – If you want to stay here longer: no problem! Austria still has no mandatory action plan to achieve the Kyoto objective. All we have is a kind of wish list of the Federal Minister. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] – Mr Colleague! If you want to speak, I'm sure you'll get along. You don't have to be so upset. So what we have is a wish list. There has been a number of papers in recent months, namely the optional report and this action paper from the Federal Government, but unfortunately nothing has been decided – except for an eleven-page paper in the Council of Ministers, which is rather very vague as to how the climate change objective should be achieved. And even with these eleven pages there is a dissent between the Minister of Finance, who says that it has only been decided on the last page, and the Ministry of the Environment, which claims that all 11 sides have been decided. That is to say, it is still completely unclear how we will achieve this climate change objective in concrete terms. I think this is very unfortunate, and I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection a number of questions in this context. But as it looks, it'll be a little difficult. Where is the Minister for the Environment? Is he still in the house? Is he coming? Is he still listening? - I understand. [[Abg. May. Prammer: No, no one listens!]] He's virtual. [[Calls: He's already there]] [[Abg. Head: Have you not prepared a speech because you are so upset?]] Mr Kopf! I've prepared a lot. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment a few questions, and it is very useful if he is present, otherwise he will be able to answer them hard. I would be interested to see why there is so far no detailed, mandatory plan of action to achieve the Kyoto target or until when such a one will be available to discuss and decide here in the house. I would also be interested in the position of Austria regarding trade in flexible measures in Kyoto – a controversial point. As we start the budget debate tomorrow, I would also like to know how much money is planned in the budget for climate action. You have in committee an amount of, I think, 650 million schillings. Is it gonna stay there? Do you think that's enough to ensure climate change? How does it look with the truck toll? I heard rumors that this should be postponed again. Is that all right? If so, until when? And: What is your position as Minister for the Environment in relation to the climate change objective? I would still be interested in the following: In the financial settlement negotiations with the countries, it was planned that climate protection should somehow be taken into account. As much as I know, this isn't happening this time. [[Call: Has happened]] - Aha, it happened. Federal Minister! Maybe you could say a little bit about it, that would be quite interesting. I hope you will answer these questions. I personally think it is a bit a pity that these climate change measures have been postponed for months now and that we actually only have some kind of wish list for The Hague, but not a mandatory decision to which we refer or with which we could achieve our climate change objective. But it is still gratifying that we have made a four-party request, which enables us to discuss every year the progress or non-progress in this area – Karl Schweitzer is also pleased to see you from the speaker's desk – and to talk about how we really achieve this goal, how we are in the plan, and what climate action needs to be taken urgently. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Lauter Vier-Partien-Anträge!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24586	The next speaker was Mr Fallent. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24607	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Sima! I don't think it's so unclear in which direction we want to move. You know very well that a bundle of measures has been proposed, and no one prevents you from starting with yourself tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can already try to do this tomorrow. I do not think that you have to wait until decisions are taken in Parliament, because climate change really concerns everyone. I believe that there are many areas where climate-related measures could be taken regardless of laws or decisions. Let's assume that you too, with your consumer behaviour – I have already mentioned it today – can set a course in terms of climate protection. Give priority to the principle of proximity: Buy goods produced nearby and you will realize that this will prevent traffic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Also try to buy products produced with little so-called "grey energy", products where the production energy is as low as possible. Try to buy these products, if possible, from countries where there is no nuclear current. Then you too have made an important contribution to climate protection. Back to those measures that are included here. Of course, we want to take effective steps in the field of transport, space heating, energy generation – the transition to renewable energy sources – in the field of waste management, industry, agriculture, and in the field of the prevention of other greenhouse gases – steps that require feasibility, steps that require that the measures are economically viable, environmentally sound and socially balanced. This is also the intention of the new Federal Government, which is the intention of our Federal Minister, and that is why the climate conference in The Hague will essentially be held. I believe that our Federal Minister will represent that position called sustainability – a long-term strategy, a path of many small steps, but a way in the right direction, to the energy transition, to small cycles, to cycles that come with little waste. Disposable productions and disposable products should belong to the past. I believe that many of these areas will be a major challenge for us. I also assume that we must know about this responsibility and also act in the sense of the coming generations. Climate protection is not just a question of the present, not just a question of those people who today settle our planet. It is not a purely Austrian problem either, but it is a European problem, even a global one. I think everyone is called upon to make their contribution to this. We should start raising consciousness tomorrow. The actions should take place gradually, because only what really happens helps our environment, ultimately helps to give our quality of life a chance even in the future, helps our children to have habitats with the future. This is a good that will be important to our children, and they will be grateful if they still have it in the foreseeable future. We will strive and work to achieve these goals. Federal Minister Molterer is certainly a guarantee for this. We will go this way, and together we will achieve the goal. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24674	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24695	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to thank you for having succeeded in achieving a four-party application for the Kyoto target. We're all under pressure. It's a demanding goal. But the application alone is too little. It takes every effort and effort and effort to implement the Kyoto target. I am personally very happy that Federal Minister Molterer is responsible for this, because under his leadership this should be possible. I would like to briefly present the starting position: Austria is in the forefront of climate protection thanks to many voluntary commitments in the European area. However, we still have the task of doing more in this context. We are living in a time when a lot is in motion in the energy market, in which alternative forms of energy have an opportunity. So there is a certain crisis, which, of course, can be seen in the population through high energy prices. But through this crisis, alternatives and reserves such as forest, sun, wind or photovoltaics are promoted. Any citizen can help to achieve the Kyoto goal – whether it be in the selection of housing, heating or transport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We cannot give the citizen any money every day, but through energy savings additional money can be lurked. The Kyoto target is aimed at everyone: from small citizens to business and agriculture to industry. We must all contribute to achieving the ambitious target of reducing CO2 and methane emissions by 13 percent. In my opinion, there are three priorities: the economy, agriculture and transport. I come from Tyrol, from the region of the Inntalskien, where, of course, we have a certain problem with transport. We have reached the borders and now we need a sub-inntal railway, which dispels the additional traffic we expect in the next few years and thus contributes to moving heavy traffic from the motorway to the rail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next point is the economy. We are living in a break-up time, there are new trends, new dimensions, for example the Tyrolean low-energy house. There are strategies to be able to heat a house with 4 kW without needing a fireplace. I think that this technology, technology and construction will also bring opportunities in the future and will be an essential contribution to achieving the Kyoto goal, together with industry through modern technology. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the next and last point, I would like to mention agriculture. We should succeed in boosting bioenergy, building the hacking market, installing bioheating plants and thus boosting forest management. Another rail in agriculture is the biogas sector, where we can produce energy that can keep the air clean and at the same time produce a good fertilizer. Achieving the Kyoto objective means taking many steps, involving all, targeting investment and presenting projects with exemplary effect. The so-called environmental Oscar is an example of how to reward capable people. Energy prices are hurting everyone at the moment, but they are a reason to think. We have to deal with energy sparingly, use it efficiently and think sustainablely, then we can achieve this demanding Kyoto goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24767	The next speaker to speak was Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24789	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Climate research is now completely out of the question that the greenhouse effect will lead to profound climate change and serious environmental problems, and especially Austria with its sensitive Alpine region should have a very special interest in climate protection. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Ellwall.]] The command of the hour – which has been strapped with quite a lot of pathos earlier – is not only self-responsible, but also, as politicians, we have the task of adopting political programmes that make it possible and feasible to assume self-responsibleness. I do not think it is necessary to say to people that they should behave environmentally consciously, for for example, by taking the train from Vienna to Burgenland is a punishment for everyone – and I do not want the people who behave environmentally consciously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The budget, which has been presented today as figures of policy, should in fact also be an environmental policy policy for the coming years. However, if there is not sufficient financial resources for climate protection, then there is no national climate policy – that must be somehow clear. Those who save on climate protection and the Kyoto target also save at the expense of future generations. Today, FPÖ's Finance Minister has talked a lot about far-sightedness and sense of responsibility towards coming generations. However, what is now in place in the budget estimate for the climate strategy is far from even what is necessary in approaches. We know from the very good climate strategy of the Ministry of Environment that the 1.25 billion schilling will be necessary to reach the Kyoto target in 2010 to 2012. We also know that in the context of environmental support for 2001 only 75 million and 175 million Schilling will be made available for 2002. – Seriously: It really can't be. The famous five "climate protection billions" – including the total funds already disbursed – cannot be cut "to an additional 75 million for the year 2001". – This is really absurd, and this is in no way in accordance with our international obligations. It must be clear to all of us – especially the FPÖ, which the Minister of Finance says – that this budget does not meet the requirements of the National Council, namely that climate protection must be included in the budget – in any case, does not meet the requirements of the National Council. – and that can't do that either. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where should we save? Should we save on the disabled? This is not in question for us!]] We have committed ourselves to this. However, the current emission trends are afraid that we will not have a chance to reduce at a very high level in Austria – beyond 66 million tonnes – if we are not ready to cut too much. I would like to take a brief look at the call from the past: Where do we save? – In principle, it is not an issue but an investment. Especially in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, many Members of this House have repeatedly pointed out that national measures in the field of climate protection bring jobs, that they do well for the regional economy et cetera. I don't think I have to explain this in detail now, because it always comes from your side as an argument. Money for climate protection is money for jobs. Investment in climate protection measures bring much more regional value added than, for example, investment in motorway construction – we have today signed the B 301, the Roads Regulation. An investment of the same amount in climate protection, explicitly in thermal insulation, would be far more favourable for the job situation in Austria. High return on the way is, I believe, quite clear to all those involved. State funds for incentive mechanisms in climate protection lead to investments with high domestic value added and thus also a significant tax revenue. It is therefore an investment package – and not pure subsidies. Professor Schleicher has described the climate protection packages that have already existed in the past, but which have not been implemented, as a fresh cell cure for the Austrian economy. – I don’t know if you need to add something to this argument. New export markets for top technology – we are world leaders in biomass. Why not continue to invest in this home technology? Finally, perhaps political reasons: The art of budgetary policy is not the saving in itself. The art of budget policy is saving in the right places and investing in the right places – and you should not save in future opportunities. I can only say, especially with regard to the argument made by Mr Grasser, to make budgetary policy in the interests of our children: What has been presented for climate protection is not future-looking and will bring not only environmental burdens but also significant financial burdens in the future. In 2010, or from 2008 to 2012, we must buy those reductions that we have not ourselves achieved on the international emission market. This will cost billions of schillings; it will not be possible to give up yet, but will not be cheap at all. So if you save here, we'll have the future. In conclusion: At Federal Minister Grasser I have the impression that he has acted like an accountant and in the "Rasenmower" short, he has lost sight of the overarching goals. I believe that the Kyoto objective is an objective that we must not lose sight of, because, as has been said, it is also a hugely important economic programme for Austria for the regional economy, for the workplace, for regional value added, for re-route profitability. Everyone who does not recognize this has not recognized the signs of time. I have spoken briefly about the environmental impact – with the applause of the ÖVP. I believe that, if we do not make it today, at the next meeting, when it really comes to the budget, we need to clarify the issue of additional funding in some way. This additional 75 million schilling – and whatever has now been done in the area of housing development – will not be enough. If we do not realize it now, we will have to spend some additional millions up to billions in 2010, 2012. So: Think before and then save, but also invest in the right place! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24843	The next speaker was Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24865	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone talks about the Kyoto target, the Federal Government is constantly talking about achieving the Kyoto target – in reality, the only empty words of this federal government are. There is nothing to help us finally see some approaches to achieving the Kyoto target. More and more trucks are brewing through our country every day, without even standing there without drinking with us and without spending money with us. The only thing that is achieved is that more and more emissions are being emitted. But we are still not ready, or this government is still not ready for a truck obligation, the road pricing system, or at least a truck charge for the trucks to use our roads, tear our roads, and emit emissions from us. On the contrary: The Früchter-Lobby persists, the environment continues to deteriorate, and the Kyoto target is still not achieved. Secondly, Cement factories and others get more and more orders to burn. These are loud combustion plants that are not connected to waste heat plants, so that no heat coupling is available. So it's just about the profit again in these burns. Thirdly, The countries are saving money. They cannot benefit from the promotion of housing in order to promote measures to isolate dwellings in order to reduce waste heat. That is what this government is doing in order not to achieve the Kyoto objective. I'll make you a suggestion: Take an example – I took this away because I myself was chairman of the Environment Committee for many years – at the Federal Capital of Vienna, which succeeded in stabilizing CO2 emissions at around 2 million tonnes a year in a relatively short time, although electricity generation was increased by 15 percent and district heating production was almost tenfold. At that time, the Environment Council and today's mayor Dr. Häupl have stated how to achieve the Kyoto target. But you don't want that! You'd rather that the eaters deserve even more.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24913	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Weinmeier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24934	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So far, human intervention in nature has had mostly regional effects. However, this has changed since the intensive use of fossil fuels, and it has become a global problem. Global measures are therefore also needed. Austria has committed itself to CO2 reduction in several international conferences; it has just been added as follows: Conference in Rio 1992, Toronto target, EU Environment Council report 1997 and finally the Kyoto 1997 conference, which Austria has committed to reducing the value by 13 percent from 1990 to 2010. Austria has therefore committed itself to an active CO2 reduction worldwide. Unfortunately, however, very little satisfaction has been done on this issue by the previous governments. It is all the more gratifying that the Minister for the Environment has now presented this first report on the Austrian climate strategy and that this report was also decided in the Council of Ministers, just in time before the next conference in The Hague on 6 June. November. The Federal Government is committed to achieving the Kyoto target despite the failure of the previous governments. But we also have to say – I have done this from this point of view – that the current development is not satisfactory. I'm just making a comparison. According to the report on the effectiveness of environmental promotions, which was discussed at the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, a reduction of 0.4 million tonnes between 1996 and 1998, i.e. 400 000 tonnes, was achieved during the period under review. In order to achieve the Kyoto target, however, we need 800 000 tonnes per year. That means that at least three quarters of the population have been too few. Very briefly to this report. According to this action plan of the Federal Government, there are the following areas of action: Space heat minus 5 million tonnes, e-sector minus 2.5 million tonnes, in the transport sector – certainly the most difficult complex – in terms of individual transport and truck transport minus 3.7 million tonnes, waste management minus 1.3 million tonnes – I can only underline what my previous speaker said: Waste burning only if a combined heat and power is achieved; otherwise, there is no CO2 reduction at all – industry and industry, agriculture and forestry are the last two areas. In addition, I have to say something about the so-called flexible measures mentioned in the report, as has already been said here. Flexible measures are, on the one hand, so-called emissions trading – for example, buying out emissions from Ukraine or Russia; the result is not a global reduction, but perhaps even an increase – or, on the other hand, the so-called clean development mechanism, which means a purchase of non-reduction by investments in projects abroad. I consider both of them economic and economic. Therefore, the aim of this Federal Government should continue to be to achieve a maximum of this reduction at national level. Another word to finance: According to this report, only an incentive financing of 1.25 billion schilling a year – as it says on page 8 of the report – would allow the necessary climate-related investments to be made in these previously mentioned areas. This 1.25 billion schilling a year would have to be really worth our goal of maintaining our climate. Finally, I must say that it is really positive to note that there is a joint committee proposal. It is also positive that an annual report on the measures taken to reduce CO2 from the Federal Government will be available under this joint committee proposal. We can therefore agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e24986	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25047	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Global problems need global solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The stabilisation of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere is currently a globally unresolved task. Remember that you can't stay in the sun for more than 20 minutes in the south of Argentina and that parents in Sydney in Australia are invited to take care of their children's full-body bath suits and let them play in the sun for no longer than ten minutes. This is terrifying! A number of activities to protect the global climate resulted in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, in which the industrialized countries committed to binding reductions in six greenhouse gases. The Kyoto process has begun and has its impact on national plans at all levels. From the Austrian point of view, a climate change programme has already been adopted in the Council of Ministers. Austria thus fulfils its obligations. Leading officials and experts have met in the Kyoto Forum and have developed a targeted strategy. My dear Mrs Glawischnig! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Not there!]] She's not here, maybe you'll direct it to her. I am very much in favour of your statements on the sensitivity of the Alps in terms of climate protection. I also applauded you for this. But I can't do much with the other statements. The Austrian Federal Government is well aware of what it has to do with climate change and needs anything but your advice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ratification of the Kyoto Protocol is already on its sustainable path. You can only claim that the former environmental model country – as you represent Austria in an issue – has not fulfilled its obligations. But you can't make constructive contributions. In particular, constructive climate policy means implementing constructive measures. You also seem to be in contrast to your clubman. Dr. Van der Bellen specifically praised the environmental programme of the Federal Government. What measures are necessary? – The thermal building renovation reduces CO2 by 1.7 million tonnes a year. The increase in energy efficiency in the space heating sector brings a reduction of 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 per year. Renewable energy sources reduce CO2 production by 3.5 million tonnes a year. In the area Transport can be expected from a CO2 savings potential of 3.7 million tonnes – in this area there are improvements in freight logistics, awareness-raising measures and the introduction of the passenger car toll in 2002. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] The successful implementation of these measures is crucial: Awareness-building and broad acceptance abroad, legal framework conditions, housing development, rental law, waste management law and others, a broad international consensus on the creation of necessary framework conditions, incentive financing for renewable energy sources and energy efficiency increases as well as financing models for building renovations. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25103	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25132	Ladies and gentlemen! A debate on the achievement of Kyoto objectives and climate protection remains incomplete when one ignores an area that contributes more and more to the climate-related gases. This is the area of transport and transport policy. Experience in climate protection, which has been very much concentrated in the area of heat supply and thermal building renovation, has also clearly demonstrated and has shown that, with the setting of political frameworks and various measures and incentives, heavy load factors can be taken back and reduced and a profit for the individual money pocket of the person building a heat-insulated house can be achieved for the environment, because less energy is being used, but also for the small-scale construction industry, which has better orders in building renovation. This means a threefold benefit with relatively low funding. However, as far as transport is concerned, I am still only seeing other measures, i.e. measures to promote transport, and this despite an analysis that needs to be put to the fore. We simply have the situation that in traffic 25 percent more emissions are recorded than ten years ago, although there has been a reduction in fuel consumption per vehicle, compensated for each by the purchase of heavier, bigger cars and, of course, also by a much higher driving performance that needs to be achieved in some areas: I am talking about the forced commuters – we have been discussing them several times recently – because public transport has been starved in recent years, and especially by this government, until the minimum of existence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When you think back on what has been caused by discussions and discussions about attitudes – I remember the sideways here, I remember the transport associations – in recent years, in the last year, ladies and gentlemen, then you will see that in the area of transport of will to measures in climate protection is simple and simply missing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If only it were, ladies and gentlemen! However, it will not only neglect any measure that would promote public transport and thus a reorientation in transport use, but it will simply do the opposite. Two race regulations of more than controversial projects have taken place in the last few days, yesterday and today. Once upon a time there is the completely absurd North motorway, a money-killing machine that moves the transit to Austria, also to Austria, as if we had not already made the worst experience of this type of politics in Western Austria. And there is the B 301 in the south of Vienna, which will bring no relief, but enormous burden on the population and does not mean fair mobility for the inhabitants of this area if they have to travel to Vienna if they want to drive to Vienna. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are two chaos projects that undermine climate change objectives as well as economic sense. Another shortcoming that would have to be fixed urgently: Today there is still a huge kerosene privilege for air traffic. [[Abg. That's right!]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Ellwall.]] At present, there is no taxation, no initiative by Austria to finally eliminate this injustice at international level and to impose a tax burden on the kerosene – a fair tax burden that would also lead to justice in the transport sector at least at close range. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I think that is urgently necessary. Here I miss all activities. I can tell you that more and more European countries are discussing this issue. [[Abg. Murauer: And what are they doing in Germany?]] The biggest difficulty, the largest traffic growth we have in this segment. These are the 12 percent growth we all have to worry about. That's the 12 percent of the load that's already come from air traffic today. Another deficit – and I will not get tired of talking about this deficit again and again: Taxation of truck traffic ridicules any description when it comes to justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Taxation of the truck transport is at a level that you can only talk about Austria or the current Austrian Federal Government is using all the opportunities to benefit the freight transport sector even more, to also benefit from it vis-à-vis the passenger cars. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Wrong!]] Today, the passenger car already pays a great deal of the loads caused by the truck. You know as well as I do that the share of the truck in the total pollutant load is much greater than that of the passenger car. These are simple facts and truths which you too, gentlemen, always argue about and which you find so ridiculous when, for example, Tyrol suffers from the transit of goods, sometime will have to stand. These injustices will also be increasingly attacking the car clubs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If not this climate package is supplemented by a serious plan for truck-road pricing – not one that will be postponed every year by another half a year; I do not know which fishermen will go there in each case, so that it will be moved back again – if not the promotion for public transport reaches a level where the use of the ÖV will be less punishment and casteiation, but ecologically meaningful but also pleasant behavior, then a climate protection package is inefficient. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: It is only about an electronic solution!]] We have learned and have seen in practice that in the area of thermal insulation with minimal promotions, with minimal measures in some communities investments have been triggered and improvements have been achieved. It is true that Tyrol has become a pioneer country in energy-efficient house building. That's what I'm going to do. But if this is not finally complemented by measures in the field of transport policy, then everything we save in this area is immediately compensated for by further growth in transport, including a growth in traffic caused by forced commuting. There are no measures of spatial planning as well as a real commitment to climate protection. To this true commitment to climate protection you would have had opportunities this autumn. [[Abg. Großruck: What measures do you propose?]] There was a car-free day across Europe, and I have to tell you: While in Germany, in Italy, in France, the large cities have been almost seriously and very ambitiously involved in this car-free day, with an enormously positive response from the population, the participation and promotion in Austria was actually more to shame. [[Abg. Steibl: Where?]] If you would like to see the reports of the large cities in Italy, in France, involved in this action, and if you look at the fact that one has only understood to distribute a few leaflets in Vienna, then I have to say quite honestly, Austria has the red lantern in terms of climate protection, and unfortunately it has earned this red lantern quite classic. I don't know who finally and everywhere blocked these things from the ÖVP, SPÖ or FPÖ mayors. It was a broad front of people who preferred to be exhausted in appeals like: If a goat yoghurt is bought from the neighboring farmer, then we already have the climate protection done anyway! – instead of introducing effective transport measures. Of course, you have the right that private consumer behaviour can develop an enormous force, it would succeed and also be sufficiently supported to provide information on the energy and transport burden caused by it in certain economic goods. Even if there's someone talking about the ghost hour: If this package, this climate change package is not finally filled with spirit and money, ladies and gentlemen, our Environment Minister will be able to receive a maximum red lantern for the transport sector at the conference in The Hague. Fortunately, from the past there are the efficient measures in the thermal insulation field, so that the embarrassment is at least limited in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25287	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25309	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Only with the help of the municipalities will it be possible to achieve the CO2 emission reduction agreed in the international agreements. An area where communities can contribute in cooperation with countries is space heating, thermal insulation and small consumption. In the case of private households, commercial buildings and public buildings, there was an increase in greenhouse gas emissions between 1990 and 1998. Despite increasing energy efficiency in new buildings, the overall growing housing stock without additional measures continues to expect increasing emissions. A sensible programme of measures makes it possible to achieve a reduction in emissions by 2010. However, there is a need for extensive action to be taken. The current thermal recovery rates in the old house stock as well as in public and private service buildings are far from sufficient to reduce the overall rising emission trend. In order to achieve the desired reduction potential, it is necessary to at least double the recovery rate over the next ten years. The rapid implementation of a space heat programme is useful not only for climate policy considerations but also for the sake of macroeconomic and labour market benefits. Therefore, the following claims must be addressed to the Federal Government: First: Ensuring sufficient financial resources for quality and climate protection-oriented housing development. If the financial compensation has extended the commitment to infrastructure for housing development a few days ago, then it is certainly useful if infrastructure means not road, but Kyoto-related infrastructure. Secondly, The conclusion of an Article 15a agreement on the introduction of a single federal energy card. Thirdly, Taking into account efficient energy savings as part of the next revision of the rental law and housing property law. Fourth: Energy efficiency increase in the federal buildings and a corresponding order for the innovation of the BIG law. Allow me to point out the climate policy of the Burgenland in connection with the housing promotion. As an additional energy saving supplement is granted for special thermal quality of the building housing, an amount in the order of a new building can be reached in the case of residential renovation of energy-efficient measures and non-refundable grants are also granted for alternative energy facilities. The Burgenland is trying to make its contribution to the Kyoto target. This is not the case with the Federal Government's efforts, since only 550 million Schilling were planned for environmental promotion in 2000 and only 650 million for 2002, and these amounts are not suitable to trigger the necessary 15 billion annually. The government would be well advised instead of slowing down the economy through tax packages, introducing more forward-looking and economic-stimulating measures. In the field of climate protection, there is a wide range of activities.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25366	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25387	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Minister! The fact that the increase in the share of renewable energy sources in the energy generation in Austria has been a plus/minus zero for about ten years, yes, that this share is even slightly declining, should give us some thought. We have been trying for years, and your colleagues, including our colleagues, I would say, from the Biomass Association, have presented this beautifully: The share of renewable energy was still almost 25 percent in 1993, and in 1998 it was 23 percent. How is that possible? They're all strict! Mr Fallent – I hope he's here in the hall now – says: Start with yourself! We don't need a policy to do this! You can become active yourself! There has to be a awareness-building! Of course, Mr Fallent, this is both necessary and correct, but you see, in this example, that we are making policy. How else do you explain that the share of renewable energies does not increase as we wish? – This clearly depends on the fact that enough private households are still changing from biomass to gas and oil heating. Federal Minister! That's a fact, and we can't close our eyes before that. I think it is urgent that such systems can no longer be financed by public funds. This would be a real signal to the citizens of this country, who would clearly and clearly show them that it makes no sense to switch from wood heating to oil or gas or other non-renewable energy sources. - That's a point. Her colleagues from the Biomass Association have been calling for environmental tax reform for years: Where is she, please, in this budget? – These would be real answers to Kyoto’s challenges. It would also be clear that this would result in a relief in the field of labour costs, vice versa, but also in a clear control function in the economic situation, and that we could achieve real objectives in the next few years. There is also much to be done in the area of heating public buildings, ladies and gentlemen. This is where policy can send out clear signals. There is a lot in the arrogance: Just think, for example, that even in woodlands such as in windshields in Upper Austria – to name an example from my region – where a gas pipeline is carried out, the municipalities are brought with dumping offers to heat their buildings with gas instead of with energy from decentralized production, with district heating or with some form of renewable energy, for example with biomass. That, Mr President, is what we are going to do in your detailed strategy paper, which has not been presented. You have raised some important points, but I do not believe that the consistency of this programme is apparent. We must also see clearly, ladies and gentlemen, that there will also have to be measures that can bring something in. I mention just one example of agriculture – also an important part and aspect of the overall climate protection concept –: It is certainly useful and superior to provide for an operating income tax for certain operating assets. Federal Minister! We should also not ignore these possibilities, because we are signaling farmers: We want them to produce biomass, we want them to produce organic. On the other hand, we also need to see that those companies that do not understand this feel economic incentives! For example, this would also be a signal I would expect from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25431	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25452	Mr President. Very soon: Ladies and gentlemen! You know that there is the report of the Kyoto Forum. You know that the Federal Government has presented a Council of Ministers, which I have worked with colleagues Grasser, with the task of completing the climate strategy between the federal, state and local authorities in detail by the end of the year. For this purpose, we have provided for elements such as, for example, the financial compensation for the purpose of promoting housing, which are also carried out with a view to Kyoto. This is a crucial step. We can take a first step with the budget, which is not yet enough to achieve the desired level of support in the field of environmental protection, but we can say, despite the savings budget, that we are moving in the right direction with Kyoto. You can also be sure that Austria will also be very consistently represented in The Hague together with the European States.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25477	The last speaker to speak was Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25498	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! - I'll make it very short. – We have set a very high goal in Austria: We want to be the country with the third highest savings in Europe. Of course, this raises the question of what that means. It means that we will have to save 16 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2012. However, we currently have the tendency that, since we talk about it, greenhouse gas emissions have increased. That is to say, we have not yet reached a falling trend, but a rising trend. So the question is: Where are the priorities? – The priorities have already been mentioned in part: They are involved in transport, house firing, as well as energy generators and industry. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So what is necessary? – It is necessary that first of all the Kyoto target must be manageable, and that is what we will all have to work on. Secondly, binding measures must be taken by the Federal Government. I have just heard one for the first time, namely the commitment to housing development. I hope that, not only for renovation, but also for the new construction, we will set specific targets for all the federal states. I do not know if this is how it is regulated, but I assume that we will still be able to talk about it; that is not the question. Measures will have to be taken which are cost-effective and at the same time relieve the environment as a whole. In particular, it will not be possible for the 13 percent savings to be evenly distributed across all areas, but, of course, there must be the highest savings where there are most emissions, and that should also be with a goal. It cannot be, however, that from this point of view one now has a pure agricultural support and leaves the cities in the rain. It is particularly important here that we also position ourselves accordingly in the area of district heating, also in the field of heat and power, also in the area of waste disposal and sludge combustion. In addition, there has been a climate strategy report and a Kyoto Option Report from the Ministry of Environment. However, both reports are not yet in line with the legal situation in Austria, so they need to be coordinated as quickly as possible with the laws we need to implement them. The legal situation must be coordinated, especially in the ElWOG, in the Gas Economic Act, but also in the Old Load Rehabilitation Act and in other areas. However, I would like to come to an area that has not been mentioned today and where the savings potential is 17 percent of the total cost: This is the E-Economie. Unfortunately, I have to hear that at the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, a item on the agenda has been dropped, namely the one on which it was about talking about the 51% share of the group. In this regard, Minister Bartenstein is signaling me, and President Prinzhorn has already mentioned to me that one should talk about it and seek a solution. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We delayed it!]] I also agree that we are talking about this 51 percent federal share, but then you have to know what you are talking about and what you are talking about. It can't be that, as I take away the newspaper, the combination of France's EdF is driving off customers and low-cost electricity from Austria is now exported from the compound to France, but at the same time, when they approach the network to secure their power supply next year, the Wiener Stadtwerke get the answer from the association that this no longer fits into its sales concept and that they should look for the electricity where they want. Moreover, we have of course also discussed nuclear energy and nuclear power plants today. I really ask the question: Where is electricity imported from anywhere? Is electricity from nuclear energy being imported further? – Yes, these are the questions! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Eder!]] I know, Mr Khol, it hurts a little when you talk about these things. But if you connect with us about the connection... – Well, for you everything is ridiculous, but that's typical! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: The soon is over! No empty promises!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No! We laugh for another reason!]] It used to be a little different, now it's just like that. I'm sorry! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: We are laughing at the empty promises, Mr Colleague! You said you'd do it briefly!]] Perhaps there will also be a time that won't be so funny for you anymore! In any case, I would like to say the following: There is a lack of any concept in the energy sector, and Minister Bartenstein is now really required to create order in the Austrian energy industry. Just having the Director-General negotiate is a little bit. That's where the owners are required! If the owners do not act accordingly, in Austria we will not be able to reach a reasonable solution in the energy sector and thus also the Kyoto target. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25613	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 335 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. (E 39.) Before moving to item 6 of the agenda, I would like to announce the following: In the context of the debate on item 2 Mr Maier received today an interlocutory call from Mr Gaugg, who contained the comment: "In the Chamber of Workers you have a pointed department that does nothing else..." and so on. – I think that this is not a very nice choice of words, but rather a very inappropriate one, as it unfortunately came here. But she's not enough for an order call. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, Mr Maier, you said: "The question of how this brilliance system of the Freedom Party is organized is about that there is relevant literature." . I also do not think that is worthy of a Member's statement in this House. It is not enough for me, however, to give a call for an order. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Solomonic! That's salomonic!]] 6. Point report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (282 of the Supplements): Federal Law, with which the Spanish court riding school and the Bundesstüt Piber are legally independent (Spanish court riding school law) (330 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25663	We shall now proceed to item 6 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First speaker is Mrs Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25693	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As we are now having a debate on the disseminating of the Spanish court riding school and the federal school of Piber, I should like to say straight away, Minister of State: Over the last few years, we have repeatedly discussed the bad states of the federal state of Piber, but above all about the management of the responsible management. Mr Federal Minister, I would be interested if you would agree with the opinion of the responsible chief of Piber, who is also the head of the Spanish court riding school, namely that Piber has major deficits on the part of the expenditure side. I would like to know, above all, how the calculation takes place in the breeding of horses, and also how the food for the Spanish riding school and the professional, craftsmanship activities carried out in Piber for the Spanish riding school are calculated. Another problem, Minister of State: It was built in 1990 in Piber a veterinary facility that cost more than 30 million Schillings. However, this veterinary area is only used for very simple treatments. The middle and difficult cases go to the university. I'm going to explain why: We had a veterinarian who understood too much of the breeding of the horses. That is why there have been constant conflicts between the director and the veterinarian. Of course, the veterinarian saw no chance of implementing necessary projects, especially in the area of use in the veterinary field and in the breeding of horses. That's why he preferred to go back. – Now there is a veterinarian who previously had to deal with chicken breeding. He'll fit the head of business. What Do You Believe Why, ladies and gentlemen? – I would like to quote the saying: It must not be the chick's fault than the hen. Federal Minister! Why were there no controls and no consequences? All these events – and I only bring a few details here – have been known in your department for a long time! Can a person lead two companies as large as the Spanish riding school and the Piber Foundation – where, among other things, the same person goes on a trip to the service and touring? Is it a miracle when it comes to playwrights between employees when the person appointed as a representative is not allowed to make any decisions at all? – Mr Federal Minister, you should have intervened there a long time ago! Ladies and gentlemen! The Lipizzans are a trademark for Austria, and we all have to ensure that this is guaranteed in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The uniqueness of this jewel of Austrian cultural history must be preserved. The core is and remains, my Ladies and gentlemen, the highly trained staff and their commitment to the company, where the location of Piber – and this is my firm conviction – would be able to bring in far more what cooperation is about than some have previously suspected from the point of view of Vienna. But, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the scandalous approach of the Federal Government towards the Austrian Federal Forests – a company which was distributed in 1996 as a 100% subsidiary of the Republic of Austria, which has done excellent work to this day thanks to its management and its employees and is now brutally forced to deliver 3 billion schilling to the Finance Minister, and thus has to be highly indebted – would be a legal basis for protecting against such substance-damaging processes in the case of Piber or court riding school. Federal Minister! The company is well equipped, it is provided a lot of money. But the danger that the Piber Foundation and the Spanish court riding school could be ruined in two to three years remains. That is why we cannot give our assent to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25753	As the next speaker, Mrs Achatz has spoken. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25775	Mr President. Minister! Mrs Bauer, you would have had to read through the government template with which the Spanish court riding school and the federal school, Piber, are not privatized, but are distributed and remain 100% owned by the federal government! This will be a society of public law, and thus ensures that there is no sale! [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is simply ensured that the Spanish court riding school and the Piber are finally given a legal form – which they have not had so far – and finally an economic design option: a design opportunity, Mrs. Bauer, to be able to exist on the market and also to put in place measures to create new sources of revenue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] The aim of this law is to maintain the permanent and traditional breeding of the horse race Lipizzan and to preserve the High School of Riding Art. Mrs Bauer, I do not understand: You are the first speaker of your group, you were also in the committee. You'd have to know the government plan! We also discussed this in detail in committee. [[Further call of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] It is also, Mrs Bauer, that the necessary financial resources have been made available: 430 million schillings are available so that the farm, breeding and training are ensured. 80 million of these will be made available for the most necessary renovations of the Hofburg and Stallburg. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] That is really the case, Mrs Bauer – I give you the right! There was the past German government – but it was well known to you – juicy. [[New call of the abg. Sophie Bauer.]] 30 million Schillings are being made for investment in Piber, Mrs Bauer. Even the accusation – your accusation – that there may be an overload of horses by disseminating them is unfounded. The institutions of the company are a two-member management board, a Supervisory Board, three members of the Ministry of Agriculture, one member of the Ministry of Finance and two members of the Spanish court riding school. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer:... always voted down!]] And in order to support this federal school of Piber and the court riding school, Mrs. Bauer, the Minister of Agriculture can also set up an voluntary committee. You can believe that the Federal Government is really concerned that this living cultural property, the Lipizzans, will be preserved and secured in the future. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: About the Federal Forest everything goes so one hundred percent...!]] The Spanish court riding school and Piber remain in the possession of the federal government 100 percent! They will become a society of public law, and the Federation has taken over the assurance that there will continue to be a permanent preservation of the Spanish court riding school and pibers in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25862	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25884	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to draw attention to the fact that this government proposal or amendment has not been sent to us 24 hours before the Committee's date. This means that the time to examine the request for the Committee meeting was clearly too short – this is once a formal criticism. However, I would like to point out that, of course, we in the Committee have reserved ourselves to examine this further. It is clear that this is a central identification property of Austrian culture – as one might say: these are the Lipizzans – a cultural property with which Austria is identified worldwide. With a budget requirement of about 20 to 30 million schilling – that is the grant requirement for Lipizzans – I would say that the budget relevance of this item is relatively low. Let's be honest: If we outsource all the positions where there is a need for subsidies, we will soon have nothing left in the budget! The crucial question, however, is: Can this really bring about something essential and positive? – It is undisputed that there is a need for action in order to improve the structure. This has been clearly recognised by us in the discussion. But, Mr Graf, thank God, and therefore can [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mr. Colleague, you have to speak louder! My colleague, Haidlmayr, is already asleep!]] They will follow me and I think they will agree – by the end of 2004, there is a financial need of 182 million schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Of course!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is the internal communication, Mr Colleague!]] If I put this up to a high level and compared these 182 million to the annual grant requirement of 20 million Schilling, Minister of State, I would ask you to explain this again. I didn't understand! If this is an equipment that is supposed to be a kind of saving for the Spanish court riding school and the piber support for the next few years, I ask myself the question: What is the concept that is being pursued? – We did not discuss this in committee, we did not see the corporate concept. Is it certain that the Spanish court riding school can be run at all cost? – You have to answer this question before we can finally assess it positively from our point of view. We see some good aspects in this proposal, for example, that the attitude and breeding of Lipizzans should be carried out in an appropriate manner – I think that is important and right – and that there should also be an voluntary committee – this is also desirable in itself and in our view positive. However, this is a cannibal provision, Mr Federal Minister, and a cannibal provision is not a must-destination. This too, in our view, is a manko in the paper. We should not forget one thing either: The Court of Auditors' control is also eliminated, and I do not think this is a good thing because cultural policy issues are also linked to it. I will try to explain this to you by the example of brand care: We assume that this breakdown should lead to an economicisation, to better use of the Lipizzans and also this brand, and it is planned that subsidiaries can be set up. But, Mr Federal Minister, these subsidiaries are not, of course, exclusively in the hands of the federal government – at least this is not the result of the presentation – but can also be any other constructions. This is not excluded. However, I think this is worrying because, in our view, brand maintenance should also be subject to public control. Finally, the question arises: What would this look like, on the other hand, would it really be efficient and profit-making? - That's not clear either. The template does not show what would have to happen with any profits. Finally, it would have been superior, at least from our point of view, to use the GmbH law so far as to take account of the possibilities of non-profit-making GesmbHs in this proposal, because it is not credible in the long term that a suspension sign of the Republic will be a hundred percent profitable. [[Call to the liberals: "Something is going on too!]] That is why we will not agree to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25967	The next speaker was Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e25989	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Also at so later hour a request to Mrs. Bauer and to colleagues Pirklhuber: The applause on the part of the SPÖ is too little. You should agree if you want this Austrian jewel to be secured for the future too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And to colleagues Pirklhuber: A little economic thinking paired with traditional awareness and a little willingness to reform – that would be for the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It's just absurd to question everything! I am reminding the SPÖ of the successful path of Stadl-Paura – and that was a privatisation, not an extension! Today we are split into an independent society. It is the second measure that will ensure an excellent way under Federal Minister Molterer. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer:... Federal Forest!]] Let's give this way a chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26041	Mr Molterer, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was next mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26063	Mr President. High house! The fact that the Lipizzans are a sign of Austria is beyond dispute. The fact that we have the clear intention of this law to maintain this jewel in the future and to have it even better than before is also beyond dispute. It's about quality and tradition, and it's about securing breeding. That is the meaning and purpose of this legal basis that we are creating today, ladies and gentlemen. First: It is a modern legal basis for the Spanish court riding school and for Piber. We need both institutions, both institutions need each other, both institutions are important! Secondly, We have created a society of public law, which clearly has the task of taking economic aspects into account. This is ultimately the meaning of a breakdown: that economic opportunities can also be used better than today. Mrs Bauer! You know, even because of your regional origin, that we have opportunities, especially in tourism in Piber, which we do not now use, and your speech, ladies and gentlemen, actually contained the sum of the arguments for disseminating. It is a society which is 100% owned by the federal government, whose tasks such as breeding, maintaining the tradition and high school of riding art are clearly defined in the law, but also the mission is also defined, balanced in the perspective after the business plan – Mr. Pirklhuber! I'll talk to you later. – act. It is clear that we are activating the advisory committees where it is necessary, for example with regard to securing Lipizzan breeding, a task that goes far beyond Austria. The economic security is as follows: A transfer of assets to this new facility to the extent that this new company needs. There is a budget of 182 million Schilling, covering the end of the business plan, Mr Pirklhuber, until 2008. But then it will clearly be the goal of achieving a balanced conduct, because it is by no means understandable why a company that has such a jewel to offer cannot be managed in such a way that it does not benefit without subsidies. It is clear that this law provides an investment grant for both the Stallburg and the Piber, as well as an economic reserve in the event that this society needs a buffer, which may be the case. – So this society has a good economic equipment, and we have ensured in § 14 that, of course, the federal government will have to fulfil its obligations regarding breeding, tradition and equestrian art in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that by means of this law we are creating really optimal conditions for maintaining breeding, equestrianism and tradition, on the one hand, and on the other, we are also setting the economic framework in such a way as to ensure economic success, namely a balanced conduct, for this company. I therefore ask you to decide beyond all party borders to agree to this reasonable law, which I know is generally regarded as very reasonable, and yet to distance myself from some current day-to-day policy assessment!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26123	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26144	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I heard the message, but I lacked some confidence, namely confidence in your statements on the financial impact. Our colleague, Mr Achatz, recommended that we read the government paper. To that I will answer: We have read the government template! Federal Minister! However, we find nothing in the Government's proposal on the whole financial impact et cetera, because this government template is, Mr Khol, a "speed-kills template"! – A "speed-kills template"! [[Abg. Neudeck: What kind of template?]] What has this Federal Government decided unanimously in the Council of Ministers? – § 7: It will be necessary "a cash grant of xxx 000 000 Schilling". – I can assign the six zeros under some circumstances, but what are these x? However, I do not want to despair on the pure text of the law, so I look into the cover, perhaps I will fail. – However, in the cover we find nothing or just simply and simply the budget approach of 2000 and nothing else. It states that capital resources are necessary and that they face long-term savings in the short-term. But it's still not finished. However, in the explanatory notes under the General Part, financial implications, we find even less than nothing, Mr Minister, because it does not at all represent what it is supposed to cost! [[Abg. Auer: Buy new glasses!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Not even 24 hours before, please, this has been passed by the Council of Ministers and decided unanimously. What does the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Austria care about the financing in such documents? This question really has to be put into space! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: What about the amendment?]] The amendment was tabled shortly before, i.e. the financing problem was delegated to Parliament. There may be an information in the way you mentioned it, Mr Minister. I don't know if § 14 is actually the security. I also first thought that this is the upholstery in case the government's proposal for funding was to be utopia, because it was not comprehensible. I do not know whether the permanent maintenance is actually guaranteed in the form of this society as part of the Republic, or whether we do not open the door to the distribution. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, in recent times you have provided quite bad examples, I am thinking of the Federal Forest, which the government, with these coalition parties, has now hung a backpack in the form of an amount of 3 billion schilling, which this society can only bring in through sales. I would remind you, Minister of State, that you are quoted in the "Kurier" already mentioned yesterday, which you have noted with regard to Austria's water, that you see models such as private operators or cooperation agreements for the scrapping of water. Minister! In view of these examples, it is quite appropriate to have concerns as to whether the Lipizzans and the Pibers are next in line!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26234	The next speaker was Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26255	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Pirklhuber. Distribution means that the responsibility of the federal government and the audit of the Court of Auditors remains and reserves are formed from the profits. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Spanish court riding school is one of Austria's main tourist attractions, and for me as a Viennese, the Spanish court riding school is also a piece of homeland and a piece of Vienna identity. The Spanish court riding school is cultural property with over 400 years of tradition. Our group is particularly concerned about the preservation of cultural heritage, and the wealth of knowledge regarding Lipizzaner breeding and equestrian culture is also one of our cultural heritage. Our group has already seen in the late 1980s the need for action and structural improvements in the last century, but the calls of our then district councillor, the current councillor and vice-president of the Cultural Committee at the Vienna municipal council Heidemarie Unterlander after the renovation of the stables and the winter riding school have not been heard. The fire of the Hofburg and the EU Presidency have led to the need for conservation work. The fact is that the stables are in a bad condition, the winter riding school, as I was able to convince myself recently, is badly in need of renovation and the comfort for the tourists who often come to Vienna just because of the farm riding school. The Minister of Finance has already pointed out the importance of the disbursements in yesterday's budget speech. It is our group's concern – Anna Elisabeth Achatz has already said – that the Spanish court riding school will be run economically while maintaining the tradition. In this context, of course, we also regard the needs of the stallion as one of the highest ceilings. It is important that the performance physiology of the stallion, as that means, is matched. There are currently nine out of 15 intended riders for 64 stallions. The construction of a second equidae, which is repeatedly required, lasts up to twelve years, and the training of the stallion takes up to eight years. In this case, holidays, rest breaks and limited touring opportunities are to be considered, so that in this case not one and one is equal to two. – The construction of a second force is imaginable by 2008, and by then, as I believe, it will be possible to balance. The popularity of the Lipizzans – as reported by the "Kronen Zeitung" – has also set off the plan for riding the board, such as the ex-Miss World Ulla Weigerstorfer or the "acting Federal President" Löffler. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] However, Löffler's covetous eye is of course less focused on the Lipizzans than rather on a domicile in the Hofburg, considered to be established. As a Viennar, I would also like to address the forthcoming exclusion of the Federal Gardens. The Federal Gardens are cultural goods with a social function and a recreational area, which must be safeguarded free access to them. In addition, I think it is important that projects such as the Garden Theatre in Schönbrunn Palace Park are also remembered. Summer festivals enjoy great popularity, and it should also be made possible in Vienna in summer opera and operetta pleasure for tourists. I would also like to refer again to Heidemarie Unterlander, whose decision-making request was not adopted at a municipal council meeting last year. I hope that this project will be taken up again in the course of the disseminating of the federal gardens! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Take note of the time!]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: Describe all this exactly! Mr Khol wants to hear everything!]] Back to the Spanish court riding school, back to the amendment request, also to you, Mrs Sophie Bauerand comrades: I would remind you of your request from spring 2000. They have signaled a positive basic attitude in this, and I would be very pleased if we all voted in favour of the preservation of this cultural property together!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26326	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26347	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a law will not find one with regard to the sums that will be spent there. However, I was found in a press release by Mr Schweisgut: I found that over the next five years 427 million schillings are to be invested in the Spanish court riding school, i.e. about 83 million per year. That makes you a little stupid, and you're wondering: Is it now being put on, this beautiful Spanish court riding school, so that you can sell it better afterwards, in order to have a basket money in five years for a renegotiated budget? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This distrust is well-founded, because the Federal Forests were initially only distributed, and today you, the Federal Forest, are refusing any discussion about the budget accompanying laws! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen! The mistrust is well justified! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In connection with the Spanish court riding school, it has already been spoken today of the frequent use of cultural goods, of historical importance and of the age of 425. Federal Minister! I can now present an authentic description of the preservation of the Spanish riding school after the events that occurred in 1918 following the collapse of the Austrian-Hungarian monarchy or the struggle for the preservation of the Spanish court riding school. If you read this presentation carefully, you will find that the years 1918 to 1921 – then the court riding school was taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture – were a very, very difficult time. The work reads that Dr. Austerlitz, Member of this House and editor-in-chief of the "Worker-Zeitung", as well as the Workers' Education Associations, have contributed very much to the fact that this Spanish court riding school, which is so important to you and so culturally important, has survived at all! [[Abg. Neudeck: Today the "Worker Newspaper" no longer exists! Who's gonna do this now?]] To ensure that the Spanish court riding school continues to survive, the Social Democrats will not agree with your plan to start bringing it to the man very slowly now!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26401	The next speaker was Mr Schwarzenberger. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26419	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We do not intend to sell the Spanish court riding school, as the SPÖ would like to propose, but it will be distributed and will remain a 100% subsidiary of the federal government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] We have already distributed several cultural areas: The distribution of Schönbrunn was a success, we have distributed the Staatsoper and the Burgtheater, and even the Wiener Philharmoniker are no longer a state-owned property. All these are also signposts from Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are currently no legal standards for the Spanish court riding school and the Bundesstüt Piber. This law establishes appropriate legal standards. However, it is necessary to break down on the tongue – the reasons were mentioned in the Committee – why the SPÖ cannot agree to the exclusion. A socialist Member has literally said: "There is a risk that the farms will be economically managed." [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] You have to repeat this: It has said that there is a risk that the farms will be run economically! – We want them to be managed economically, and that is why we are voting in favour of the exclusion!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26471	The next speaker was Mr Schwemmlein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26492	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to colleagues in Schwarzenberger, you can see why it is important not only to believe his words but perhaps also to those of a former ÖVP club secretary, who today takes the position of the President of the Court of Auditors. This President of the Austrian Court of Auditors, Mr Fiedler, says, I quote: "I don't see any measures, but only announcements. I would just like to warn you that enlargements and privatisations are already seen as structural reform alone." - Quote. Mr Schwarzenberger! It is possible that you cannot fully understand what Mr President-in-Office means. However, we can, and therefore we warn against saying only: You are now private, because as we have just heard, this is too little if no structural measures are taken! You have put something before us – something to which we have not only stood up from the principle, but for which we were an essential competitor, namely to put the Austrian Federal Forest on their own feet, so that they have the chance to be successful as an economic company that has to deal with private-sector market rules. We have supported you on this point. But what are you doing now from these Austrian Federal Forests? – You say to the company: Go and see that you are successful! [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: It's a flowering company!]] – Thank you for the call, Federal Minister! It's a flourishing company, it's a company that makes 210 million schilling profits, but you're paying 3 billion for it! That's a sensational bill! I congratulate you, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since we have just experienced what bill you pay – and it is not market economy thinking that a 210 million can generate and then 3 billion will be cut off! – of course, we have concerns about the Lipizzans and Piber. We fear that you will say: Make yourselves independent, we'll split you up. And then sometime the big uncle with the even bigger wallet will come and say: I bring in capital, I guarantee you a one-time proceeds, which is very attractive!, then the majority in this house, as it still reigns at the moment – I hope not for long! ............................................................................................................................................................ That is why we cannot and do not want to agree, out of deep conviction, the dismissal of Piber and the dismissal of the Spanish court riding school!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26539	The next speaker was Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26560	I'll talk 20 minutes and more! That is the revenge of the Haigermoser for not willing to agree a proper speaking time today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schwamlein! You can also exaggerate the oppositional cracking skills! With what you've tapped, don't stay dry! This is almost the iron dance of the Lipizzans, not the softness of the day. You have remained guilty of all the arguments and have only pleaded to leave everything in the old age. That can't be it, dear friends! In the direction of Gaßner a short remark: It is a chuzpe when a Social Democratic speaks the monarchy as a witness to his words. I'm just remembering what all happened in connection with Habsburg! That's really a chuzpe! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now to the Federal Forests: Mr. Schwamlein! If you want to build the future for farmers by preventing farmers from buying from federal ownership, then we certainly do not participate, ladies and gentlemen! We're not going with that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: Talk to the farmers!]] This is a new opportunity for farmers to create a savings bank for difficult times! Ladies and gentlemen! To the Raubersg’s layer of Sophie Bauer, which the white stallions really didn’t deserve: Their lecture is proof that this is necessary to lead the Lipizzans to new shores and to open up new opportunities! – Mrs Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] Your failure in the matter of AKW is enough proof that you should be silent today, because in this respect you have not brought enough home! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government is once again on the right track in terms of Spanish court riding school. That is why we agree with this model with enthusiasm, because it is offensively progressive and is certainly more adopted by the public than ever!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26636	The next speaker was Mr Schweisgut. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26657	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe we have heard enough about the tradition and centuries of history. The fact that this German government wants to privatize the Spanish court riding school and the Piber is a fairy tale that has now been contradicted. It is not about privatisation, but about the creation of a society with public law. That's what we've heard. Therefore, these arguments of sale are taken from the air: It will continue to be federal property in the form of a public law society, and if you have followed the statements of the Minister, then you will have heard that it is in the future the goal of the state to preserve both the high riding art and the foundation, because it is old traditions. A sad fact in this context is only that for years a loss of around 30 million schillings has occurred. I therefore believe that there is an urgent need to set the goal of this company being managed economically and not making a 50 percent loss at the expense of taxpayers in the long term. Considering that the revenue of the Piber Foundation and the Spanish court riding school amounts to about 35 million schilling, and then finding that a loss is at the same level, I think it is clear that in times when savings are announced, it is simply an economic necessity for the state to put a little on the savings mark even in the area of the Spanish court riding school! In my opinion, however, Mr Molterer took sufficient care to ensure that the Spanish court riding school is prepared for competition and for the market of tomorrow: The annual grants are not to be seen as a grant to an end, but there is also the possibility of making provision from these grants for a longer period of time than for this four-year waiting period. The investment grant amounting to more than 100 million schillings will also create the structural conditions for maintaining and safeguarding a long-term tradition. I believe that it is as far as possible to create the appropriate conditions for the Spanish court riding school to compete and be market-oriented. I was addressed as a horse expert – I also run a farm with around 200 horses – and I would like to say that I believe that the expansion of the events will be possible. There are enough examples for this. The construction of a second force is to be created without problems at this time, and I believe it is up to a tourist country to ensure that at 60 appearances a year in the future also in the summer appearances take place in Vienna. This will be possible with a second team, and the Spanish court riding school will thus contribute even more to the world’s call of horses from Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26703	The last speaker was Mr Pistottig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26724	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We really have to ask ourselves why there is such a big difference between a committee meeting and a plenary session, and we also have to ask ourselves what the colleagues actually want and what thoughts they are pursuing. In the Committee, Mr Pirklhuber said of the Greens that he did not fit the low animal population of the Spanish court riding school or the Piber Foundation. He complained that strategies were missing. Finally, he criticized the inefficient leadership. He may be right. Mrs. Sophie Bauer said she didn't fit the Director's rare presence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] There has been no post-posting, Mr. Schwemlein! It is true that losses of 30 million schillings are made each year and there is no private initiative and no efficient performance. In view of this, it is possible to say: The taxpayer will pay for it! [[New call for tender of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] But, Mr. Schwemlein, that's not what we want! I am now telling you how the future will look! [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] The Spanish court riding school and the Piber Foundation are not sold, but are distributed so that there is more private initiative! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have probably overlooked the fact that the Federation remains a sole shareholder and that, of course, the Highness will remain with the competent minister. [[Abg. - How long?]] As before, the company is subject to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Two persons are appointed for the management. The Supervisory Board will consist of six persons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] There is also a volunteer committee, thanks to God. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialists! This will be the lead in the future. The funding has also been given thought. Emergency aid: 182 million schilling. Until 2004, the court riding school will be given to repair the castle and repair the buildings, 80 million schilling, and the Piber Foundation will receive 30 million schilling. That's safe. But that must also be done. In addition, this society also receives a package of properties worth 135 million schilling, namely beautiful forest of about 1,000 hectares. In view of this, I have to tell you honestly: If the managing directors can't get out of there, I'll report to you as managing director, because I'll do that with my left hand, I swear to you! I can't imagine what you're afraid of! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Mr Pirklhuber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The aim is to preserve the quality of breeding, the preservation of buildings and, above all, the preservation of one of the greatest cultural goods that we have. Ladies and gentlemen! How seriously you take this issue, I recognise that Mr Pirklhuber is already thinking about where the profit would come, although profit is not yet the case. On the other hand, Mr Kummerer sees nothing at all. Mr Kummerer, be glad that you are not a Lipizzanian, because blind horses would be cut out there! Thank God you are a Member and not a Lipizzan! Ladies and gentlemen! The Spanish court riding school and the Bundesstüt Piber must be able, from 2004 onwards, to maintain almost 1,000 hectares of beautiful forest, to keep themselves and to stop becoming a burden to the taxpayer. If you want to do whatever you want at the committee meeting, please agree to this request. Or you are voting for purely political reasons, because it is currently modern to operate opposition and to be against everything you can be against. That's your decision. If you want to blame, do it like that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26809	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 330 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – I also note the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 7. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. HSG Irina Schoettel-Delacherund comrades concerning a federal law by which the federal law, with which measures are taken to promote machine embroidery in the country of Vorarlberg (Stickereiförderungsgesetz), BGBl. No. 222/1956, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. No. 187/1985, abolished (332 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26866	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. As First of all, Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26890	Mr President. Federal Minister! [[Calls.]] Don't stop me! I want to make it short and concise. – This law was of great importance to the Vorarlberg wage stickers at a certain time, in the 1980s, it had a meaning in that there was a large export mainly towards Nigeria. But this law has survived, as has been correctly established by the applicants. [[Abg. May. Warnings: Correct!]] It has also been found that EU conformity is no longer available, and as it is also ensured that the funds still available will be made available to those concerned, we also agree that this law will be repealed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26932	The next speaker was Mrs Schottel-Delacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26953	Mr President. Minister! I like the fact that a law that no longer has a right will also be abolished once, and not only new laws will be made. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e26987	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 332 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – I establish the unanimity – if no one has fallen asleep. [[Rejoicing]] That's what the law's supposed to do. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – Again, I note the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 8. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27047	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27071	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We now have to discuss the motion for a resolution by Mr Gabriela Moser and Mr Comrades on awarding prices. Before: The aim is to agree fully with the content. Today, I do not want to give a position of principle on the award of prices in Austria as a whole. We have conducted this discussion in the implementation of the Price Quotation Directive, and our criticism is well known. This is a particular problem, namely the lack of pricing rules in the field of services. I'll come back to the award-winning law again. This led to a positive intervention in the scope, because the scope was extended compared to the old legal situation, and on the other hand the pricing obligation for services subject to the trade regulation was maintained. That, ladies and gentlemen, was the only positive thing. The Austrian award-winning right is still completely fragmented. There are no uniform rules, and consumers have problems accordingly. I would like to present this on the basis of a few examples. On the one hand, there are exceptions which say, for example, that the pricing law does not apply to benefits if there is a validity in other federal laws. On the other hand, goods are excluded from the obligation to award prices which are offered in the context of a service. I ask you: Why does a hairdresser, a hairdresser who offers goods in the context of his/her performance not have to mark them? Finally, I come to a major problem, namely that those services are not covered by the pricing law whose offers are not subject to the trade regulations. This concerns, for example, the garage providers, which concerns the Deutsche Telekom area, which concerns the banking sector, and this also concerns – and this is a special problem for us consumer protectionists – the area of the so-called exchange houses. Minister for Economic Affairs! You took note of this problem at the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I am grateful to you for my two parliamentary questions, which were very concrete, because the contributions made by the debate in Parliament were very funny – the honourable Member Hofmann said that Mr Finanzminister would make a regulation, while the ÖVP representative meant that the Minister of Economic Affairs was doing it – and you have declared that you will be adopted such a regulation which regulates the award of prices in exchange offices – and for this I am grateful to you. Federal Minister! I'd like to say something: It's too little for me. What does the awarding of the price alone mean when changing $700 – I bring this example again and again – 1 000 s of fees are charged? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Always the same!]] We believe that there will be a limit – in comparison to the banks that charge a maximum of 2.5 or 3.5 percent as an exchange fee. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are many things that could still be said about the pricing law, especially on the question of execution, where and how the federal states are controlled. We could also discuss the civil consequences of incorrect and incorrect information in the award of prices.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27109	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27130	I think it is necessary to discuss the issue of prices for 20 minutes, because it is a very important problem, as Mr Maier mentioned. That is why I am going to stick to this time limit. Mr Maier! However, I wonder: What does it have – oh so big! – Coalition has been done over the last decades, if you now – a few months after this reform government is in office – advise what you have failed or you have failed for decades? Something's wrong with that. That might be a political credibility. Ladies and gentlemen! The request of the Greens is obsolete in so far as a regulation authority for the Federal Minister has been established in the Section 3 of the Awarding Act and this authorisation has been given by Parliament; this regulation is in preparation. In addition, the problem of pharmacies is also included. I therefore believe that these questions raised by Mr Maier are in the best hands, and we are also very user-friendly. I would just like to make a brief comment on a sample of bureaucracy, the so-called euro-currency law – also an improper heritage of the old, oh great coalition. As a result, a bureaucracy sample is applied to the establishments which cannot be carried out. As the only country in the European Union, we have committed this birth of tongues to the citizens, and we will work to ensure that this nonsensus does not affect consumers and citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Overall, however, we are exemplary in the award ceremony in Europe, and I therefore believe that for this reason – and for many other reasons – the green request is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27172	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27193	Mr President. Mr. Minister! As my colleague, Mr Lichtenberger, told me, all the members of the committee were actually of the opinion that it was necessary to also sign the services with prices. I'm just surprised that there's no agreement in the plenary. I'm not talking around for long. It is a consensus among you that the services should be awarded prizes. I don't understand why not now, here and today. It's a necessity. - I'll close it to stop stripping you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27224	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27245	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Moser! I am glad that you went out and found out here that there is no obligation to award benefits. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: She didn't say that!]] I need to correct you because you seem to be not at all up-to-date what happens in the award ceremony. As your application looks, you have now acted. You know that your motion for a prize award 195/A is basically supported by all the parties present here, but we are all here as consumer protectionists; we are here to protect consumers. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Super!]] But if you're saying here that we don't have any awards for services, I'm gonna have to stop you from saying that's not right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You know very well that in 1992 the Price Act was amended into the Price Quotation Act. In your application, you still speak of the Price Act, your application still refers to the Price Act, although you mean the Price Award Act. Mrs. Moser, that's not how it is! You know that the pricing law that we have had since 1992 differs between property and services. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] We have also clearly regulated the goods, and there is also a revision that has only been valid since September – on 1st. In September 2000, the innovation came into effect. In addition, the services are regulated there. Mrs. Moser, may I read to you: 59 services are listed in this regulation, which you do not know at all, because you demand that the services be taken into account at last. Dear Mrs. Moser! I'm sorry, but besides all these things, I have to tell you: It is not possible to make applications which have already overtaken themselves or which will also be overtaken by a re-regulation of the Minister over the next few weeks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A comment on Mr Maier's comments: If you believe that it is a fragmentation in areas such as aviation price awards not in your own law, but in the aviation law, or to keep the price award in the telecommunications law, I may say to you: This is not a fragmentation, but it is a clarity with which one can tell the consumer what is better what is right. In this sense, of course, we cannot accept this request that you have made.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27321	The next speaker was Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27351	Mr President. High house! I agree with the comments made by Mr Puttinger, who has already pointed out that on the one hand, a novel to the pricing law has recently entered into force and on the other hand, it is by no means the case that services are not covered by the pricing law as a whole. However, I am of the opinion of Mr Maier, who criticises the proceedings in the field of exchange offices and believes that there would be a price award because I too have made a similar experience of just absurd supplements for exchange of dollars in Schilling. I have already informed you in the Committee that a draft regulation will be reviewed in October of this year, which will provide for a pricing requirement for exchange offices.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27383	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 331 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent to this to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (199 of the Supplements): Convention on the illicit movement at sea for the implementation of Article 17 of the United Nations Convention against the illicit movement of addictions and psychotropic substances and the Annex and Declarations of the Republic of Austria (303 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (200 of the Supplements): Convention on the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of the Sea of 10 January 1970. December 1982 on the conservation and management of cross-border fish stocks and large-scale fish stocks, including installations (304 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (201 of the Supplements): Termination of the Convention of 5 June 1970. July 1980 on the publication of tariffs and the organisation of an international association for the publication of tariffs and its implementing legislation (305 of the supplements) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (203 of the Supplements): European Convention on persons taking part in proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights (306 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (267 of the Supplements): Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convict Persons (307 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27476	We now come to points 9 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. It is the first honourable Member to report on the matter. Luna-cek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27500	Mr President. Minister! High house! At this late or early hour still some foreign policy points. Unfortunately, the Foreign Minister is not there herself, because there are some exciting issues to be discussed in this debate, but since she is not here, I will also be limited to one of these points on the debate, namely point 10: Convention on the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Transboundary Fish Stocks and Large-Making Fish Stocks, including facilities. Of course, we could ask ourselves what we are supposed to decide where we have no sea around Austria at all, but of course it is the case that international agreements are to be ratified by all countries. Moreover, this international debate on fish stocks and the question of overfishing stocks naturally also has to do with our consumption and with the fact that we are among those countries in which more and more fish have been consumed in recent years. This gives rise to a certain responsibility as to how we should behave in this area. It is important for this implementing provision and for Austria to agree, and for this reason it also ratifys – and we Greens will therefore agree to this point – because there is at last a means of acting more strongly on the part of the international organisations towards the EU, because it is precisely some EU countries that are operating the construction of the robbery. Spain is one of the most important countries. This is particularly true of African countries, where fish stocks have already been fished to such an extent or of EU Member States, including vessels flying their flag, are still being fished that the local population has hardly any chance of fishing the fish for their own needs or, if necessary, for processing. For the first time, this Convention also includes guidelines on how sustainable fishing can take place, how to ensure that stocks of fish are preserved, and that those fish that go a long way are not hindered in this process and are not allowed to be overfished or fished. It is also important that this Convention contains the fact that developing countries are not burdened disproportionately, so that they are not asked to check out more than they already do, and so that they do not have far too few fish stocks for their own people. Of course, this agreement is far from enough. There would be much more to do. Some of the points called for, for example, by Greenpeace would, for example, be that the global industrial fishing fleet should be reduced by half within the next five years, that governments should cease their subsidies for industrial vessels and fleets, that flags should be abolished just for fishing. There are more aspects that need international regulation. Nevertheless, this agreement is a first step, and for this reason we agree. We also agree with the Conventions in Agenda items 11, 12 and 13. Why we are not going to vote in Agenda item 9, my colleague Dieter Brosz Später will explain to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27554	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27576	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take advantage of my contribution to the Convention on the illicit movement of addictions at sea, in order to point out the internal debate we are going to have in this area or are already taking place. Let me briefly sum up: If the ideas expressed by this Federal Government in public are true, there will be increased criminalisation and more arrests in Austria. Already at the start of office, drug policy began a turnaround back to strategies that had already failed, Mr Schweitzer, before. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] I only remember the Schladminger talks, the drug clause of the FPÖ national organizations, where one has heard such absurd ideas as drug tests for teachers or kindergartens. I personally believe – and this is now the result of the previous discussions in the Committee of Inquiry – that a health policy path must continue to be pursued and sanctions should increasingly be restricted. This Federal Government is planning to amend the pharmacovigilance limit regulation. The limit for heroin should be reduced from five to three grams. Furthermore, a change to the Drugs Act is planned. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you realize that, then that will happen, which all experts confirm: In Austria more people will be detained and more people will be criminalized. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! I am talking about this because it belongs to this issue. The question is simply what direction Austrian and international drug policies are going in. I would like to ask you from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. "The reactions to criminal conduct in Austria, their appropriateness, their efficiency, their balance" quote, in which the most well-known experts of Austria rejected this change of law, as you have planned. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that from our point of view, prevention measures need to be strengthened and financially secured and criminal threats to those who are suffering from such diseases must be reduced in favour of health policy measures. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27663	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported, although it does not deal with transport to the sea, it has an objective connection and is therefore part of the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27687	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is the first time that a foreign-political debate is being transformed into a drug debate, namely by Mr Maier and then by Mr Brosz, who, as I have heard, will also bring in a motion for a resolution on the release of cannabis. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is an obstacle to the illicit movement of psychotropic substances and high-sea drugs. Mr Brosz already knew it was drugs and nothing else. That is why I believe that we have to agree to this, because everything that hinders or complicates drug trafficking, drug trafficking at the high seas or anywhere else is to be supported. All that leads to a simplification of drug relations and drug trafficking must be rejected. That is why we Liberals continue to believe, and especially now, that the border regulation needs to be amended, that the limit of heroin must be clearly reduced from five to three grams at present, and that the step taken by the socialist youth and the colleague Maier is trying to understand here in the House must be rejected. This step looks as follows: The entire Socialist Group is trying to see the youth for drug release, obviously only those already addicted, drug dependent children and young people. That's where I think we can't take this path. You enjoy voting with the Greens, and the Greens are a step ahead of you. The reason for the rejection of the Greens is that: They want to reject this step against the illicit traffic at high seas, because it makes the hashing and smuggling difficult with other psychotropic substances. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just to reject! But They are bubbling around the same class of voters, who, like the socialist youth, wants to decriminalize all illegal drugs. The best way, the best platform for it, is offered by colleague Maier from Salzburg. Tell all Salzburgers what you are planning here with your Socialist Group! They even outlaw the Green Group in the area of drug legalisation and liberalisation. This step will certainly not be taken by the government parties! Today, the agenda is somewhat shorter because a point has not been raised, namely the one on which it was intended to deal with the office-based agreement between the Republic of Austria and the European Agency for the observation of racism and xenophobia. This item on the agenda has been postponed, because we want to get information from the head of this Observatory, who honours us with her seat in Austria. We are all happy, but it controls only Austria and has so far not submitted a single report on its observations in neighbouring countries of the European Union. Federal Republic of Germany: Racism appears there, one hears of the media, xenophobia as well. Detto in France. Or Belgium: A election result of the Block of flames, which the European Union has been very concerned about. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are already looking forward to Mrs Winkler – Mr Spindelegger, we are looking forward to doing so together – returning our report; voluntarily. It is invited to report to us on the results of the observations on xenophobia and racism in other European countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27737	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27758	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My colleague, Mr Pumberger, has already announced to me that I have been wrong from the argumentation, but essentially not wrong from the intention. First of all, I would like to return to what Mr Maier has brought in. It was not clear to me why you first meant that the Greens were a step ahead, and then again meant that the SPÖ surpassed the Greens in the drug release. That was a certain contradiction, but you will probably be able to explain it again. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: It's a head-to-head race!]] The question of the Heroin border regulation is really an extremely interesting one, even though you can only look at the comments of the federal states. The probably well-known federal states, with regard to their political leaders, in the sense of the national leaders, Styria, Lower Austria and Vorarlberg, have strictly and vehemently opposed these changes in the border control. There is no federal state – no federal state! – which has clearly said it is behind this change. That is why I find the continuing profession of expert opinion quite amusing when looking at what happens when the experts of the countries comment: This seems to have no effect on your projects. We can certainly still discuss this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. You probably also have the opportunity to comment on the opinions of the countries themselves. You are also right in the second point. I would just like to ask you one thing; I have already asked in committee, but I have not received an answer. It is a follow-up agreement on which we shall vote. The agreement on the marketing of addictions and psychotropic substances was already in place in 1997, and at that time the liberals were against this agreement. What has now changed in the drug policy of the liberals or why you were opposed to it has not been explained here either. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger:... controlled!]] That was already asked in committee, there was no answer. They have said that our intention is not to agree, and that is right. We are opposed to Mr Waneck, the Secretary of State, who has said several times that drugs cannot be differentiated; Drug is drug, everything is equally dangerous.– I believe that this is a very irrational policy, especially if we look at how consumers could absorb it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: From "consumers"...!]] If you tell someone: It doesn't matter if you consume cannabis or heroin!, then, I think, the responsibilities are probably on your side rather than on the side of the opposition. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Which drug is harmless?]] You haven't listened once more, Mr. Graf! I didn't say drugs were safe. However, if you take this seriously, you may find it difficult to distinguish between illegal and legal drugs, because you will probably agree with me that alcohol and nicotine – yes! – are not dangerous, which is commonly referred to as drugs at least in the case of experts and where one distinguishes only between legal and illegal drugs. But cannabis is de facto a drug for us, which first takes on a very essential space from quantity. About 70 per cent of the total – under quotation marks – "such poison crime" – now criminalised – are related to cannabis. Cannabis is simply a means, a substance that can be assessed with regard to the danger – now I say it carefully – of course not about alcohol and nicotine. [[Abg. Großruck: How does that work, Mr. Brosz?]] Many experts believe: With regard to the potential for addiction, the potential for danger, cannabis is much different, in the sense of less danger, than legal drugs. [[Abg. Großruck: Can you tell us how cannabis works?]] That is why we believe that it must be treated differently. We therefore believe that this agreement, which is not differentiated, cannot be presented. If we mean – and that is what we say – that there should be another form, a legal consumption of cannabis, then we must also consider how consumers come to be cannabis. You can't pretend it fell from heaven. And the logical consequence of this is not to agree to this agreement. However, I would like to refer to international development, which would at the moment give some starting points; I am thinking only of Portugal and Switzerland. Those who saw the "Report" yesterday also know what measures are being taken in Switzerland. By the way, this is not necessarily a country whose progress is normally known throughout Europe. But there one has become a rational drug policy and makes a policy geared towards the needs and consequences. If one sees that in Zurich the scene has almost disappeared by a reasonable policy, then it would also be useful in Austria to finally get away from the drug hysteria of the FPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27897	This motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27940	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is strange that the Greens and also parts of SPÖ want to break a drug discussion from the fence to a government template that is almost undisputable in themselves – because it is so self-evident. What we are to decide today is an agreement on the illicit movement at sea – which has nothing to do with § 209 – for the implementation of Article 17 of the United Nations Convention against the illicit movement of addictions and psychotropic substances and the annex and declaration of the Republic of Austria. Mr Brosz and ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Either you have not read through this convention or you only assume from the title. You know what's in there? – German said that it should be possible to bring on suspicions of a heroin supplier or a drug ship outside the territorial waters. That's what it's all about! There is nothing about soft drugs, hard drugs, and you are voting against it, ladies and gentlemen – and you have tabled the request today – because you want to introduce the release of a substance on sluggish paths in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I have no understanding of this at all. I mean, it's your responsibility and your argument if you want to vote against it, but one has nothing to do with the other. Now you are opposed to the high seas of drug vessels – a United Nations Convention. Please, you have to let that break on your tongue! On your request, Mr Brosz: You know very well if you vote against this, then you can, on the other hand, imply that: They are also for the transport of hard drugs, not only cannabis, not only hashish, but opiates, heroin or cocaine. That allows the reverse! You will have to answer it if the hard drugs also come with these addicts released by you for permission. Then you will be asked how you can answer that our youth will be overrun with these means, that young people will be made dependent and that young people will also die. On the one hand, you want to protect the youth, on the other hand you want to give it exactly those instruments that produce the opposite. It is a fact that it does not remain with the light drugs – for example, there are enough examples – but that it is only entry drugs for harder drugs. There is enough experience, even in Switzerland, where one becomes again restrictive, or in Holland, for example, where one has experienced that on the so-called soft drugs that have been placed in the coffee shops, the dealers of course also sold the hard drugs with and thus made people dependent. That's what you want in Austria?! – We, ladies and gentlemen, do not want to! That is why we will, of course, reject this motion for a resolution, but the other points on this agenda will be happy and happy at this time of the morning.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e27987	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28008	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Lunacek! I can inform you that I have the honour of representing the foreign minister because she represents the interests of Austria in Tashkent and Uzbekistan and cannot be here. Secondly, in particular, I would urge the Green Group once again to consider whether it cannot give its assent to this agreement with regard to the content which Mr Großruck once again presented. I thought it very strange if a group of the House did not contribute to this agreement. Thirdly, I should also like to make it clear from the Government's point of view that liberalisation of soft drugs such as cannabis for the Federal Government is certainly not in question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That has a very simple reason. It may be medical and other scientists that the theoretical addiction of cannabis and others is quite comparable to alcohol, but it is a fact that cannabis is the starting drug in almost all cases for heroin and harder drugs. That's why we don't want soft drugs to be legalized. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28054	Mrs Mag. Lunacek has spoken again. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28075	Mr President. Minister! We will not agree to this agreement. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] In order to say it perhaps again clearly [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That's enough!]] It is necessary that there should also be differentiation in international conventions, so that it is precisely for another drug policy, as we imagine it, and how it has been practiced in other countries, as has already been said, for example in Switzerland, that it is also a way forward. It is also possible to distinguish between international conventions. Unfortunately, it has not happened in this case. [[Abg. Amon: How do you know what's inside the ship?]] If Mr Grossruck concludes that we are also in favour of the fact that the hard drugs can be transported very well – we do not make this mistake. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's it! If you vote against the request, you are in favour!]] We want differentiation, and because this differentiation is not given here, we do not agree. But I have, above all, spoken about a comment made earlier by Mr Pumberger on what I mentioned earlier in the morning from the last Committee on Foreign Policy. I would like to make it clear once again that we were not opposed to Mrs Winkler's invitation to the Committee on Foreign Affairs so that it could come to a meeting with her there and that she would report on her work at the Observatory. But we are not at all! What we were against – and you have now tried to throw it into a pot, so to speak, in the sense: Well, the dialogue with her must be!No one's got anything against him! – against which we have something, is that a junkim is being built here, that is to say: We are already going to vote in favour of the office agreement, but we have to postpone it now, first of all we want to talk to Mrs Winkler. You would have had no intention of simply agreeing to this Presidency agreement in the last Committee on Foreign Affairs and inviting Mrs Winkler to the next meeting. But as it has now happened, this is a fatal signal to the international community, as Austria intends to deal with international organisations in the future: Only if they make accepted statements will they also be allowed and decided on. That's what it looks like! It is also a signal that confirms only once again what is also stated in the report of the "three wise men": that, in particular, the Freedom Party has a somewhat peculiar relationship with how human rights are treated in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28157	Mr Heinzl is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28191	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To create the conditions for practical cooperation to combat the illicit transport of addictions at sea and to provide specific international conditions, that is our common objective. Of course, the Socialist Group will agree to this Convention. However, it is certainly not done with this agreement. Policy will continue to be called on in the coming years to strengthen the fight against drugs, to make them more efficient and, above all, more powerful. As we know, the consumption of drugs, particularly synthetic drugs and cocaine, continues to be strongly increasing in Europe. More than 200 million people worldwide are drug dependent. It is therefore necessary to consider how international measures to combat drug production, drug trafficking and related crime can be strengthened. Drug policy must not end at the gates of prisons and be understood as an increase in criminal threats. It is far more important to find a concerted approach to education, prevention and the persecution of drug use and drug crime, with the emphasis on youth drug users, certainly in providing assistance, information and family support. Ladies and gentlemen! Punishment for consumers is not a single answer for me. In my opinion, it is more important to increase the employment of drugs policy with the entry-level mechanisms of drug use. It is also necessary not only to punish consumers, but to force information and information. Prevention projects in the direct field of life of young people are also particularly important: school, the circle of friends, the youth centre, the family and so on. Another fact, which is still far too little attention, is the origin of drug trafficking, poverty in the third world, probably also in the Fourth World. In the three countries of Colombia, Bolivia and Peru, about 480 000 people are dependent on cocaine cultivation. It is poverty, ladies and gentlemen, that drives them to illegal plantations. It is the fear of the existence of their families that drives them into the hands of international drug syndicates. I am therefore of the firm conviction: If we get under control of poverty in these states, we also get under control the illegal cultivation of drugs. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Zweytick]] Another problem, especially in the Western industrialized countries, is the massive rise in the abuse of synthetic drugs. Synthetic drugs, especially artificially produced additives such as Ecstasy, have good chances of getting the drug of the 21st century. ==References== [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] The synthetically produced minters proved to be the main growth factor in the international drug market in the 1990s. If the seized quantities of heroin and cocaine remained relatively stable over the past decades with increases of less than 50 percent, the seized quantities in the relevant environment quadrupled as the fast known substances in the same period. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] Worldwide, ladies and gentlemen, more than 12 tonnes were confiscated in 1998. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Freeman and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even though we are taking a common step today to improve the persecution of drug trafficking and drug crime, we cannot be content with this. We must continue to work and make every effort not always to be a step behind, but at last to be a step in front of drug dealers and drug syndicates. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Heinzl! Time!]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] We must remove these black shadows from our society, ladies and gentlemen, and we must help those who are also seeking help in drugs.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28263	Mr Kurzmann is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28306	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The five government proposals we are currently discussing were largely consensusable within the Committee on Foreign Affairs. That's what happened there on the 4th. ==References====External links== In four of the five conventions, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the National Council the approval of the conclusion of these state agreements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, there has also been a large majority in the Committee at the United Nations Convention against the illicit movement of addictions, 199 of the supplements. If this is not possible here in the House, then we will take note of that. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to take the opportunity to draw attention to something that seems to me to be important, especially in view of the last three days. After the removal of the so-called sanctions against Austria, the equal treatment of Austrian parliamentarians with the representatives of other countries abroad is still not entirely natural. The latest example – all those who attended the COSAC conference in Versailles from Sunday to yesterday – can confirm: The French chairman of the meeting, a Mr Barrau, who is probably not well-known to you or to the majority of you, has tried to manipulate the list of speakers in Versailles. The Austrian Head of Delegation, Karl Schweitzer, was there to speak as the fifth speaker, as can be seen from a list of speakers that we have of course. During the meeting, the chairman deliberately passed him several times, apparently to prevent him from asking unpleasant questions to the French Prime Minister Jospin or also to the French Minister of Europe Moscovici. Of course, the Austrian delegation did not like this. We have made it clear that we would protest very loud if these manipulation attempts were not stopped. Then, suddenly, there was the possibility that Mr Schweitzer had taken the floor, and then he also had the opportunity to present the Austrian positions in an interview. I do not want to miss out on this, here in the House of Commons with the representatives of our delegation, Mr Ambassador Dr. Toth, but also Mr Mag. Koller to thank for her loyalty and for her commitment. On many trips abroad, we have experienced that our officials, regardless of their political attitude and personal political conviction, pay very close attention to the service to our Republic and to our state and put it in the foreground of their views. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, however, I would like to say: At all the meetings and international conferences that we are attending, we should be very strongly representing the Austrian position and not be reluctant to reject diplomatic restraint if we are disadvantaged. Ladies and gentlemen! There are no friends in politics. There are only interests, and in foreign policy we have exclusively the Austrian interests to represent.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28369	No one has been reported about this anymore. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty and the annex and declarations of the Republic of Austria in 199 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I note that this has been done by a majority and has been accepted with it. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Johann Maier and comrades concerning the non-innovation of the addiction limit regulation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Brosz and Mr Comrades on the facilitation of the consumption of cannabis in Switzerland. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, which is contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: This has been adopted unanimously. [[Abg. Swimmling: Versatile!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the authentic texts in French, Arabic, Chinese, Russian and Spanish must be made known by the fact that they are available for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the termination of the Convention of 5 June. In July 1890, on the publication of the tariffs and on the organisation of an international association for the publication of tariffs and its implementing regulation in 201 of the Supplements, it was approved. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I have recently noted unanimity; it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 203 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. . I once again note unanimity, which has accepted the request. Finally, we have the opportunity to vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 267 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a corresponding sign. – I repeat unanimity, the request is accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28457	We are now negotiating two applications for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where is Gusenbauer?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the applicant?]] [[Further calls.]] These are: Request by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Genossins, pursuant to § 33, on the establishment of an investigation committee The signed Members request that an investigation committee be set up in relation to S: 5, F: 4, V: 4 and G: 1. Subject-matter of the investigation: Enlightenment of allegations concerning the transfer of police data to third parties and the systematic intrusion by members of the security device. Study of legal and political responsibilities in relation to these matters. Investigation order: By collecting oral and written information on the subject-matter of the investigation and by taking into account the files of the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs and other federal institutions relating to the subject-matter of the investigation, the Committee of Inquiry shall examine all matters concerning legal and political responsibilities. Request by Members Pilz, friends and friends to set up an investigation committee pursuant to § 33 GOG The National Council wants to decide: An investigation committee shall be set up to examine: 1. The Federal Minister for the Interior is responsible for the illegal transmission of data from his department. 2. Organisational defects in the area of security authorities that have led to years of unnotified personal data being passed on to unauthorised persons. Composition: 5 SPÖ, 4 ÖVP, 4 FPÖ, 1 GRÜNE These applications have now been distributed to all Members. In agreement with the applicants, a joint debate will be held unprejudicially on the above-mentioned applications, with a speaking time of up to 10 minutes for the reasons given to each speaker and thereafter one speaker per group with a maximum speaking time of 5 minutes each. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28522	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The application was read, they know him. I just think that, after today's discussion, perhaps – and this has proved to be true – some words need to be explained in order to give you the opportunity to perhaps consider again whether what you are called on from outside might not be beneficial to some of you or others. Ladies and gentlemen! It is to be feared that in the future we will have to befriend ourselves to the fact that, in addition to the concept of organised crime, concepts such as "organized party crime" may also play a role. In an incredible way, in the last days and weeks, we have been confronted with the fact that criminals of all probability have built up a professional pointed work within the executive, which causes many of us to shudder and which is quite appropriate to shake the belief in the rule of law, in the security state. Always Today, as part of the discussions, you have tried again and again – and in particular you from the liberties – to end this development, I can tell you: I don't think anyone here in the house – hand at heart! – really believe that what microservice has brought, everything is drawn to the hair. I don't really think the reactions are the right ones either. The panic that has spread here has shown it: That colleague Westenthaler in the last "Format" explains: I'll stay like I am! and says: I will continue to bring punctuality and humor into politics, I do not wish to comment on the content. I believe, Mr Westenthaler, that everyone knows your opinions, your statements, your potential, and I think everyone can judge what it is that you want to "introduce attention and humor into politics". [[Abg. Parnigoni: The calls have an enormous spiritual potential!]] I just think that it will not be possible, as the development is currently taking place, to do so for a very long time. I believe that – the development will show it. You may believe something else – you say something else anyway. I think the development will show us what will actually happen, and that will not take too long. What is concerned, however, is the fact that this pitfall scandal and this democratic-political-right state is probably unique scandal – I assume that you will also agree with me when you assume that this is true – in a framework that may not seem quite unexpected, because the recent situation of democracy policy has begun a very sad development – I do not want to repeat, you all know – from the considerations of Mr. Altklubmann Haider about the political opponents who are in prison, to the Minister of Justice who has taken up these thoughts, to the flood of complaint against artists and intellectuals. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: In Graz there is also this in the SPÖ!]] I may call to mind: Media Judge Weis – the first instance – a personality known far beyond the borders has now become involved in the discussion and has condemned this kind of dealings, which by the way, by the way, has been initiated in the "wise" report, in a way that leaves nothing to be desired for openness. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: The ghost hour is over!]] Mr Krüger! I assume you have also read this opinion. I believe that the discussion also brings something – it goes a little further – and shows more and more that this process is also taken by the judicial authorities of persons dealing with expertise than is recognized what it is: in a democracy totally unacceptable! It's coming out pretty slowly now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We are also faced with the fact that these documents transmitted in the context of this flood of complaints bear the name of a Federal Minister of Justice, the Federal Minister for Justice. I think everyone here will say when they go inside: In fact, that is unbearable! It cannot be said that the name of the Federal Minister of Justice, with the indication that he is currently a Minister of Justice, is advocating paper – Mr. colleague, I think we agree – which serves to flood the country with a flood of complaints! This is unworthy of a rule of law, and I can't imagine that someone of the people here really believes it's good that this is something worthy of heart, that it's something that you say: Let's be proud of Austria! We have a Minister of Justice, whose name is on the paper, with which all the other intellectuals are accused of being the artists who have a different political attitude! – If that were really your opinion, I would be very surprised. At least it would be terrifying. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We were also faced with the fact that under the dubious congenial leadership of Mr. Westenthaler – whether this is also the case with "pointingness and humor", I do not know – an attack against the ORF, against the freedom of expression in this country, which is inclusive: 22 phone calls a day, an interview that we all saw – which should be forgotten best if one is state conscious, but should not be forgotten if one is to qualify Mr. Westenthaler’s person – as well as a letter from the ÖVP in which accusations are raised in the form of this quotation list of Mr. Khol. This also says a lot from a democratic point of view, Mr Khol, that you are going to get involved in such a process! They criticised the term "punishment against the Federal Government" used in broadcasting and wanted to change it to "punishment against Austria", knowing that, regardless of the sanctions now, those who have spoken of implementing them have always said that they are sanctions against the government. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is what you bought!]] That means that what you've required is simply a matter of fact. It's actually a scandal, and it's unworthy! I am particularly amazed that the ÖVP comes up for such a thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler has set up the crown for the whole by explaining at one of the popular Monday press conferences Khol/Westenthaler, after the microphones – except for one – had turned off, in view of the critical questions of an ORF journalist: The radio will now have to lubricate the 600 million schilling into the hair! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Spittelskandal! Spittel scandal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think that needs any further information. It is obviously "pointing and humour" that you are bringing into politics, Mr Westenthaler! I would like to congratulate you for the short time you will be here! On the whole, we must say that it is not only a criminal scandal that is pending in criminal courts and is also being clarified – we trust in the rule of law and in the executive, which is an extraordinary effort to free itself from this unbearable network and to be again what we all want, namely a rule of law and a guarantee for security and not for the opposite – but it is also true that, if all this is true, it has, of course, a political component on the basis of these parties. Now we have discussed investigation committees and put in place one, and we have had the Vranitzky flights, where you have all argued so great, why this must be absolutely necessary, where you have acted in a way that was embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen, and have prepared a report that is really incredible! – Now, at once, all this changes: In the flights, yes, that must be examined – here is a destination from A to B: absolutely an examination! – but this scandal should not be checked, the courts should deal with it, it has no political relevance. Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you one thing: You will get the problem when the whole truth has actually come to light, and that will not take long. We will also help you to remind the public that you have always rejected investigations before, if you want to continue to do so. I doubt that this will be very useful to you politically. I may call you again: Think about what you're actually doing here today! Take this opportunity in the sense of the rule of law! Keep yourself away from self-harm, and therefore agree to this committee! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28636	I give the floor to the applicant for the second request, Mr Pilz.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28698	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We propose a committee of inquiry to clarify the responsibility of politicians from the Interior Ministers downwards. My knowledge is exclusively the Minister for the Interior of the Social Democratic Party of Austria. The SPÖ is in favour of using this Committee of Inquiry. The Freedom Party, which did not set up an Interior Minister at that time, is opposed to the setting up of an Investigation Committee. We'll be on it sometime, why? Secondly, MEP Khol explains that you should let the courts work first and then – anyone has murmured "psychofascist" again –... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is in the "profile" state!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That was the Westenthaler!]] I really have enough of it that MP Westenthaler calls himself a "psychofascist" all the time! He should make that up with himself, but not always here in the plenary session of the National Council! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was weak! That was weak! – The "profile" has characterized you so much, and I have to agree!]] First of all: Mr Khol! If – and we should seriously discuss this argument – it is really the case that an investigation committee should only be set up if all judicial investigations have been completed in the same causa, then this is a new way for the Austrian National Council to deal with investigation committees. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Go, go, go!]] In the Causa "Lucona" or "Noricum" – you remember – you and your group back then supported the requests for investigation committees – I appreciate your fight against sleep in this House – and there must therefore be a completely new reason to deviate from this practice now. [[Abg. Kiss: But at least he's already very tired! He's already asleep...!]] Secondly, It is not known to me that a single judicial investigation would be completed in the "Euroteam" Causa! I do not know of any judicial inquiry that would have ended either with the termination of the proceedings or with a judgment. [[Call to the Freeman:The Court of Auditors report...!]] As far as I am informed, possible judicial investigations in the Causa "Euroteam" and in related Causae are only at their beginning. Nevertheless, you had no problem deciding by a majority to do so with an investigation committee. This is quite justified in fact: A committee of inquiry examines political responsibility, and a court is investigating something quite different. Mr Khol! I understand the reason why They are still opposed to examining political responsibility in this causa "spitty affair" soon no longer. There will be a lot of questions to liberal officials, and this will also be about the responsibility of Social Democratic Ministers of the Interior. What can be said in this case by officials, mandates or ministers of the ÖVP is completely unknown to me. I see no indication that the ÖVP should also be involved in this affair in some way. Hence, there is at least no party-political interest in not agreeing to the investigation committee at this time. Now there is an argument of government discipline. Okay, that's what we've always experienced in research committees: As the second government party, one does not agree with a committee of inquiry which, at the end of the day, can very strongly address the coalition partner. – Yes, but, Mr Khol, you will explain this to Dr. Haider! He has long called for the committee of inquiry! Why are you still opposed to a committee of inquiry which is already being promoted by Klagenfurt? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mr. Pilz, it's a quarter after three!]] Hopefully, you do not fall to the level of colleagues Westenthaler, who in today's "Kurier" states that "a U-committee is therefore not justified. In Haider's desire, he sees no contradiction to his line. “We are always for U-committees.” [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I don't understand this anymore. Because an investigation committee is not justified, Westenthaler is always for U committees and therefore sees no contradiction in being against and his Altobmann for an investigation committee. – This is about the quality of the explanation of the accusations! Now there is only another increase in this claim, and I take it from the "format", namely the basic statement by Westenthaler about his relationship with Haider – I quote –: You can't even put a delete leaf between us! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] – I do not know who is going to put a sheet between Jörg Haider and you. I imagine that awfully! Believe that if you're just getting together again, anyone comes from the opposition and says: I'll see if I can put a delete leaf in there!? – No, Mr Westenthaler! [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] The main problem of this House is not whether we are purely technically able to put a leaflet between Jörg Haider and you, but we want an investigation committee! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The "profile" is right!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: A simple mind!]] If you really want to show us in this investigation committee as a witness that no delete sheet fits between you and Jörg Haider, then it will be possible to invite Jörg Haider and you to this investigation committee at a joint date! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's enough for me now!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Ha, ha, ha! Really "loving"! – Levelless!]] [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and the SPÖ and congratulation with the Greens.]] In order to clarify the issue of delete sheets, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, we urgently need this committee of inquiry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28915	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. The speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e28936	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I already understand the excitement on this side, because if you have something to hide, then you will also try to cover everything up! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let's stick to the facts. First point: There is a witness who has clearly collected stressful material about you and has explained how this top coward was actually picked up. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is an accuser!]] There are these witnesses! On the other hand, there is one who has filed a confession, namely Alt-Parteiobmann Haider, who said: I have this information, and I'll use it! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You will still become State Secretary!]] In between, there are now five names that have already been mentioned. The names of Binder and Rumpold have fallen, and other names will fall. That means we already know who that is! [[Abg. May. Trattner: That's interesting what you know!]] It is still the question now: What would keep you from wanting to put this political responsibility, which is clearly given here, under the table, as it is no longer to come, because the names are already known and the close relationship with the FPÖ is already apparent. In fact, there is only more to the one who organized it, because these people will not have begun to research and to transfer data throughout Austria, but they must have been summarized. [[Abg. Grabner: Where is he?]] And that is the political responsibility! [[Abg. May. Trattner: You probably believe in the Christkind! Or do you believe in Easter rabbits?]] The fact that the others are being prosecuted, we know, but what this is about is the political responsibility, the question of where this has come together, who has organized it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who was the Minister?]] I think that's a very interesting question. [[Call the ÖVP: Here you have to ask the One!]] I'd just say, Please agree! We want this committee of inquiry, even if you always say there were red ministers. Then we ask our ministers in the committee of inquiry! – Mr President, you do not stop anyone from agreeing! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Ask! Ask!]] Why don't you do that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is not an offensive strategy! Or do you sacrifice your ideals at the altar of coalition fidelity? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where did you buy the Sakko?]] Mr Westenthaler! For your predecessor, there was at least one more job in Lower Austria, but you don't even want to hear from the press in Vienna! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where did you buy this Sakko?]] It will therefore be very difficult for you in this situation, and I believe that you will have the only chance to wash yourself in order to agree to this committee of inquiry and thus to comply with the requirements of Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where did you buy this Sakko?]] I think you would do well to accept this request. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What do you have for a reverser? Who cut this sacco?]] You, too, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I again ask: What is your problem with agreeing to a committee of inquiry?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e29156	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e29197	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists are quite full-bodied. But it may still happen to you that you're going to laugh! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why are you threatening again?]] There are, of course, a number of points on your requests and, above all, on the Greens' requests: It is, in fact, the inadequate attempt to scandalize, defame and, above all, to criminalise, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The knitting pattern is known. Let me give you an example: One of your viewers, Mr. Johann Maier, says in the tomorrow issue of a newspaper the following – please be careful so that you can comment too! –: Title: "EKIS abuse – new accusations again" It also says: "SP-parliamentary Johann Maier claims to have an indication of how the flow of information from a gendarmerie official to other persons in the FPÖ has gone." - Quote. So Maier claims that he has a plausible suspicion moment of a criminal act. In the same issue, however, Mr Maier said that he valued the finding that the presumption of innocence was valid. That means he suspects that the one he wants to throw here is innocent! Ladies and gentlemen! This example is the classic proof of the way in which we are trying to scandalize here! Mr Maier! Dear Comrade Maier! If you have evidence, then put it on the table! Then tell me! Then you're not afraid of the complaint either! – In reality, you have nothing at all and just try to defame! That's your way! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Mr Grabner, Mr Mertel and Mr Parnigoni.]] The knitting pattern is already known: From a book that brings accusations in the beletristic style, but whose author persistently refuses to put on the table facts, on the basis of which actually surveys could be plowed by the prosecutor's office, take out some of your accepted anecdotes, knit something together and then ask for an investigation committee. [[Abg. Sword: But that's a blue one?]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what you're doing! But I would draw your attention to this, dear comrades from the SPÖ: This venture can become a boomerang! In this book there are still some things and some anecdotes that will be very embarrassing to you personally! I just mention one example: Eklat in Vail – who has read the book, may already be concerned – will: A Vienna police journalist – it's not a year and a half ago – had a beating with an ÖSV vice president on the occasion of the World Ski Championship in Vail. The result: The vice-president of the ÖSV had a fourfold nasal fracture, a jochbone fracture, a torn ear. – Read everything in the mini-service book. The victim had to be hospitalized several times. The victim informed the Salzburger Landesgendarmerie commander about the action, and he did not refund an advertisement. That would have been his duty. That means – as Small Service writes: Smoother abuse of office and a real scandal of concealment, ladies and gentlemen. But the big end for you comes first: This national army commander is no less than a high-ranking SPÖ member and intimate friend of the Old Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, who was always involved in his flights – including WestLB flights. [[Abg. Leikam: And who was the sparring partner?]] – We will reveal that once! Let's take a look at what's really going on! [[Abg. Leikam: Who was the sparring partner?]] Ladies and gentlemen! These incidents alone, like many more, would cause the SPÖ to slumber into a network of perpetrators and sluggishers. [[Abg. Leikam: Who was the sparring partner?]] [[Abg. Leikam: Who was the sparring partner?]] So don't come to us with these unstoppable precepts and these scandal attempts! You will enter a fat nap that will have fatal consequences for you! One, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, is indeed also grotesque: So far, the SPÖ has always rejected investigation committees. Costelka: The Marizzi spicy monkey? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Kurd murder? – For God’s sake, no committee! Banking Investigation Committee? – The courts are supposed to work! It was similar with the Lassing case – all Kostelka! – or for example in the Causa Omofuma under Minister of the Interior Schlögl. When it came to setting up investigation committees, it was said: No, don't get into question, we can't do it! [[Abg. Leikam: Who was Mr. Schellhorn's sparring partner?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, above all the SPÖ! [[Abg. Leikam: Who was Mr. Schellhorn's sparring partner?]] Let us first conclude the investigations of the Ministry of the Interior's Special Commission, and then let us work in peace with the prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Leikam: Say it!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Who beat the Vice-President?]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] This will be our order, and we will keep it whether it suits you or not! [[Abg. Leikam: I want to hear who beat down the Vice-President!]] That is why we will certainly not agree with the two proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e29422	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e29444	Good morning, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Wittmann. They have asked the EIA the question, what is the reason for the EIAs not to agree to these two committees, which are the problems of the EIA. – I can tell you, Mr Cot: One is a very fundamental problem – and I am very surprised that Mr Jarolim, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, has not thought about it – namely that, because we live in a rule of law, one must assume that there cannot be pre-conceptions! I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that there are a few political reasons for wanting a certain situation. I really have the impression that this is the case. The other is a really big issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a member of the Committee on the Interior, and I listened to this discussion with shudders there: Members of the European Parliament – including Mr Pilz, who is always as knowledgeable – are talking about the color of the blind. You have no idea what you are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, when you are talking about police computers and police data, and above all you are not, Mr Pilz. I've estimated you to be much higher than you are. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's right: The organisational defects that are cited in the SPÖ's request that it would not be responsible for an ÖVP minister – he would not have! Nevertheless, I say to you: If access to the EKIS system were more difficult, which would be quite organisationally feasible, I would have a serious security problem because it really was about security in our state. I believe that it is not easy to discuss and not because the ECIS system is a problem for police organisations worldwide. The fact that police data needs to be treated very carefully across Europe is also one of the reasons why Austria is not yet a member of Europol and Europol is continuing so slowly: because it is feared that police data will become, so to speak, unauthorized hands. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very sensitive issue, and I have also been given the impression in the Committee on the Interior that it is not about clarifying the matter at all from the SPÖ and also from the Greens, but about adapting and making it politically bad. That's your wish! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You really want that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What I think is particularly disgusting in this story is that, although you stress time and again, the executive can't do anything for it, in reality the gaskets are full of what you feed them! Mrs. Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You feed the gaskets and call here in the house the next day on exactly those gaskets you have filled, and then you say: [[New call for tender Silhavy]] We do not want to condemn the executives on a flat-rate basis. – These are 32 000 executive officials who suffer from hearing every day on the street, which you scandalize here and give of yourself in the various media, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Silhavy: Exactly! Because there's a scandal!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In my view, there is a single winner and 32 000 losers in this story. The 32 000 losers are the executive officials, the winner is colleague mini-service – at the time SPÖ-functionary, and in the meantime, as one hears, SPÖ-functionary again. [[Abg. Silhavy: They will thank you!]] That's the only winner! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: Is that from the police computer?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's about criminal charges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs. Colleague! I know exactly what you want: This is a political matter for you. However, it is also a question of criminal charges, and I am in favour of examining these criminal charges by courts which have jurisdiction to do so, and not by an investigation committee whose sole motive is political precepts. We're not with that! That is why we will not approve these two requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e29563	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Gusenbauer's request for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. Finally, I have to vote on the request made by Mr Pilz and Mr Comrades for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00040_d7e29612	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications 302/A to 306/A have been tabled. Question No 1349/J has also been received until 1381/J. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for today, Thursday, 19. October 2000, 9 a.m. This meeting will not take place for one hour or one hour at a time. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. The sitting is closed.
