ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1534	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you very warmly and ask you to take the places. I'll open the 15th. Meeting of the National Council, based on a sufficiently supported request for § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of 12, 13 and 14. The meeting of the National Council was legally suspended in the Parliamentary Directorate without any opposition and is therefore deemed approved. For today's sitting as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Aumayr, Mag. Mainoni, Dr. Krüger, Dr. Einm, Gaál, Dr. Niederwieser, Dr. Bruckmann and Dr. Heindl. Communication from the Federal Electoral Authority
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1571	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr. Federal Minister other than Dr. Michael Krüger has been re-allocated to the mandate, which he has re-appointed on the occasion of his appointment as a member of the Federal Government. In view of the fact that the person mentioned is apologised for today's meeting, the fishing observation will be carried out at a later date. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1598	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1700	Deputies Dr. Gusenbauer and comrades have called for urgent consideration of the written question 467/J by Dr. Gusenbauer and comrades to the Federal Chancellor on "Economic Policy of the Federal Government Endangered Jobs – No Disposing of Public Property". For the purposes of the provisions you all know, the implementation of the urgent request shall be fixed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 244/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1725	I shall also inform you before entering the agenda that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 244/AB to Question 378/J by Dr Spindelegger and Comrades concerning the handover by the Federal Minister for Finance. In view of the urgent need to deal with a written question for today's sitting, the short debate will take place following the urgent request. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1749	I would also like to say that Mr Van der Bellen has requested that the Financial Committee report on Amendment No 56/A (E) by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades on the compensation of the municipalities for the loss of the excise duty on beverages be limited to a period of up to 20 years. This year. This request will be put to the vote after the end of the negotiations, i.e. after the short debate. No further notifications shall be made. I interrupt the meeting by 3 p.m. and draw attention to the fact that a meeting of the main committee was convened at 12.30 a.m. The sitting was suspended until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.06 a.m. and resumed at 15.02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1788	Ladies and gentlemen! I can invite you to take the seats. I will resume the interrupted session at the specified time. Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer and comrades to the Federal Chancellor on "Economic Policy of the Federal Government Endangered Jobs – No Hiding of Public Property" (467/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e1822	The debate is to deal with the written urgent question 467/J to Mr Bundeskanzler. As this question has now been duplicated and all Members have been approached, there is a lack of reading by Mrs Schreiber. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2053	On the grounds of the question, the first questioner, Mr Dr Gusenbauer, will be given the floor, and the speaking time will be 20 minutes in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Gusenbauer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2074	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Let me address a fundamental aspect of Austria's economic location, which is a key problem of today's situation, before I look at the policy of the Federal Government that is missing from my point of view to sell out the ÖIAG companies. The government has led Austria into international isolation and is no longer able to bring our country out again. Social democracy is a responsible opposition party that is ready to work together when it comes to the interests of our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The isolation to the outside, which has caused ÖVP and FPÖ, harms Austria and the people in our country, but our top goal is to avoid damage from Austria. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Call the ÖVP: Who? From whom?]] I therefore recall my offer to the government of a common crisis management at a summit with all ambassadors in the EU countries. That has been rejected. I have renewed this offer several times – without responding to it. Mr. Federal Chancellor! There is nothing to talk about national action, but to reject all the proposals if someone is serious about you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor do the constant attempts to make the opposition more effective for actions that only the government should clean up, for what does Austria have if, according to the government, the opposition in Europe and the world becomes unbelievable? The EU has made it clear: The real problem of this government and therefore of Austria is the government participation of the FPÖ and thus the credibility of the entire government policy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: On the matter, Mr President!]] So we make a new offer to return Austria's international reputation. We offer you to review the observance by an observer group of the Preamble of the Government Convention, which originates from the Federation of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany for a longer period of time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: on the matter!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is about the preface to which you, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, have, as a matter of fact, been given the power of law and which has been broken by the FPÖ in recent weeks. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The observance of these principles is crucial for the acceptance of Austria in Europe. Accept this offer to give the country a good service! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hear, however, that the government does not learn from the mistakes and again does not want to accept this extended hand. I can only conclude from that: It is about your own interests and not about the interests of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Wrong speech!]] Now on the real issue of our urgent question. We're not against privatisation, but we're against sales. We are opposed to the fact that internationally successful, valuable Austrian companies such as meterware are traded on a hot table. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are opposed to the fact that people's assets are thrown on the market and industrial winter sales are organised. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what you're planning is obviously nothing else. There is obviously no strategy and no industrial policy ideas, no concepts for the future of the companies concerned. According to the government programme, it is obvious that no distinction is made in selling out, because the ideology of the 100 percent is like a lawn mower without even looking at the specific situation of the individual companies. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Have you ever thought about what your sales concept, for example, triggers at the Austrian tobacco plants, where ATW is today producing license products in strong self-production at three locations? By selling this traditional Austrian company to a large foreign tobacco group, license production would be challenged from one day to another. It would mean to the ATW employees that three sites are at risk and that there will not only be a risk for the ATW itself in the future, but also for the 520 suppliers who produce at least 720 million schilling. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of the fact that we have 9 000 traffickers in Austria, which employ only 3 500 disabled people in that country, have you considered what this means for the transport and local services? Have you considered the interest of an international tobacco group in maintaining this wear and tear system? Once sold out, you'll be locked up! That's the result of your plans. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Have you ever considered what it means for the future of Austrian airlines when public property withdraws and international traffic and landing rights are lost and how this company is to exist in tough international competition? Have you ever considered what it will mean for the future of Austrian telecommunications if you are handed over public property in scatter ownership and thus Telecom Italia becomes the decisive owner of the main Austrian telecommunications company with 25 percent? [[The speaker looks most of the time towards SPÖ bank series.]] [[Call to the liberals: He talks about his comrades!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a strategy, it is not a concept for the future of our companies! We are of the opinion that: Before such far-reaching sales decisions are made, there must be a clear positioning, there must be a clear concept of the future for these Austrian companies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or have you actually considered what this is for the P.S.K. means? There is a big difference whether there is a strategic partner who is interested in a real partnership or whether P.S.K. it is sold to a competitor exclusively on the closure and decommissioning of the P.S.K. It is aimed at achieving a monopoly. This makes a very far-reaching difference for the future of this company. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They are talking about what the planned sale can bring in the short term. Of course: He brings fast, fresh money, but too little money to someone who has to sell, because every seller who is in need will never be able to achieve that price on the market like one who has a targeted strategy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Contradict with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The sale costs ultimately Austrian wealth, and it is the property of the Austrians. It is about the quality of the location and ultimately about high-quality jobs in our country. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Trattner, Mag. Chief and Fischl.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Their screams don't bring us on. [[Abg. May. Trattner: (in the direction of SPÖ) There are the defilers!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: There was the Fuhrmann even better!]] It's only clear what we're talking about: Those companies that this government has put on the market are not any companies, but the companies with ÖIAG participation are among the key and future industries of our country. It is the venture with 121 000 employees, which represent a total of 36 percent of the ATX values on the Vienna Stock Exchange and deliver 20 billion schilling of taxes and dividends to the public by year. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is not only about these companies themselves, but also about more than a thousand suppliers in Austria, who are very dependent on whether these large customers will continue to be preserved in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] It is about telecommunications, it's about transport, it's about supply, it's finally about strategic vital areas of our economy. And that is what you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, are putting at risk! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Austria is not in the situation like Germany, where there are enough other strong domestic investors to ensure that national interests are preserved and decisions are taken in the country. – No, with us in Austria, total privatisation without way and goal ultimately leads to sales to large foreign companies that can afford to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: (Referring to the fact that the speaker looks mostly towards SPÖ banks) Do you also speak to us?]] And you make them an excellent offer: These large companies receive at the best price best technology and sophisticated research results, so to speak. And what you really do with it is to lay the foundation for enemy takeovers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The government always comes up with the accusation that we are dealing with our political approach against foreign undertakings. – That’s completely wrong! However, there is a huge difference between this black and blue government and social democracy. [[Call to the liberals, however!]] We Socialists want to invite foreign investors to settle businesses in Austria and increase employment. They, on the other hand, invite large foreign companies to cheap enemy acquisitions, which ultimately reduces the number of employees. We Social Democrats want to invest in new sites, but you obviously want existing sites to be filed so to speak. And that is the difference between us and this government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And I note, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of the Association of Industry Peter Mitterbauer, on this issue, obviously represents the same view as the trade union, when he says: Privatization, yes, but with brain. The leading representative of the industry also admits to Austrian core shareholders, when he says that nuclear property must remain in Austrian hands and the nuclear power stations with strategic decisions must remain in Austria in the future. These strong concerns must be a very clear warning to you. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As a stable large Austrian core shareholder, ÖIAG is currently without an alternative. And she managed well. Since December 1993, the stock exchange index of ÖIAG companies has always been above the value of the ATX on the Vienna Stock Exchange. We want these Austrian companies that are internationally successful. We want the business to be made on the world markets, but the decisions are made in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We therefore want the ÖIAG to develop into a holding of the federal government, which ultimately ensures it. We don't want to stop budget holes by dragging family silver. And we do not want to move away from value added abroad, because it is about Austrian economic power and about Austrian jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The government clearly sees this as different, because its government programme provides for the Republic of Austria to give up the role of the nuclear shareholder. The central task of the Austrian ÖIAG, Austrian industrial companies and industrial value added no longer exists in its government programme. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a fundamental difference between your industrial policy view and ours. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Here we are!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: He only speaks to his comrades! The accusations are all going there!]] At the time it was in office, this government developed relatively little understanding of those values that ultimately led Austria to a country of economic success and to social compensation. You have also clearly shown in recent weeks that you have little feeling for the balance of interests between employers and employees, and this is obviously also the reason why you originally wanted to go through the ÖIAG law in quick procedure: so that you cannot talk about the weaknesses of your policy in every way. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To prevent any misunderstanding: I'm for an orderly privatisation that deserves that name. We carried out a privatisation in 1993 under the Minister of Climate Change, which laid the foundation for the fact that, within a very short time, the ÖIAG companies concerned have not only become stock exchanges, but also increased their economic profitability. And until the accession of this Federal Government, these shares and companies are also well located on international and national financial markets. But what happened now? Since the beginning of this year, there has been a loss of value of the ÖIAG shares of 5 percent, and the core area of the shares to be privatized has even fallen by 6.5 percent. Anyone who has only a certain understanding of the information society will have to take note of: This government has subjugated our own Austrian values. That's the balance of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are then for privatisation, if you are the best for the future of the companies concerned, but my understanding stops where privatization will be sold and where pure ideology replaces the economic sense, where the breaking edge of ideology is used instead of measured politics. [[Abg. Großruck: Then you agree!]] This is the dividing line between us and this federal government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, a great deal of damage has already been done to the Austrian and Vienna financial centre, but you're on it and you're on it to make it even bigger. I can only warn you about the Austrian wealth you are putting at risk, and I am responsible for the location and the jobs. However, they are talking about panic and completely ignore the statements of well-known managers and experts who speak on a daily basis. Is it not for you to think, for example, that the head of the Institute of Higher Studies says that it is now to be privatized is the same as to give, and if sober economic researchers analyze, which is the reason why the stock exchange index has fallen by 11 percent? – Your new governance ultimately means damage to the capital market and damage to jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of ÖVP) Who is he talking to? He always looks over to the SPÖ!]] What deters the investors most is the uncertainty you produce. In this context, I only need to quote a renowned Austrian economic journalist who has called upon the government to have a sentence to which there is nothing to add, namely: Stop it until it's too late! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Your policy clearly shows that you want to go away from the successful path of Austrian economic policy. This successful path consisted of a reasonable balance of interests between the social partners, investment in the industrial location of Austria and its infrastructure, an excellent education system with fair educational opportunities for all, an active labour market policy and a stability-oriented monetary policy. – We do not believe that this path should be abandoned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Kostelka and Gusenbauer – no comparison!]] The Member States of the European Union agree that a stability-oriented budget and monetary policy and a growth-oriented economic policy also include a common employment and social policy. Under the Austrian Presidency, the employment chapter has finally been made the subject of number one in the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2487	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2508	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I wonder how you want to continue this successful path of an Austrian economic policy if you are in your ranks people who call the euro "feel birth"!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2560	For business treatment, Mr. Dr. Khol has reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2581	Mr President. Mr Gusenbauer, at the beginning of his speech, has spent a long time dealing with a subject that had nothing to do with the urgent question. The urgent question concerns the economic policy of the Federal Government, but it has discussed the measures taken by the 14 EU countries which have unfairly discriminated against Austria. You have not given the call on the matter, Mr President. I therefore assume that all subsequent speakers can also speak to the 14 EU Member States and their unjustified sanctions against Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2617	Mr Khol! I imagine – and I would ask you to consider this too – how it would have been if Mr Bundeskanzler or any other speaker of the government parties had referred to the problem of sanctions and economic location in Austria at a urgent request on economic policy and I would have given a call for it. I do not think that this would have been considered correct, but this must apply to both sides – government and opposition – in the same way. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what I meant!]] Of course, the Federal Chancellor has the right to respond to the statements made by the previous speaker, and I believe that as I know him, he will do the same. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2655	Mr President, you know me correctly. I am also very grateful for the clarification that I can say something on this point, because it is essential for me to say that it would be important – and I believe that the entire Federal Government and the country – if we were today, just a few days before the decisive European Council in Lisbon, to strengthen our hearts by means of a joint resolution of all four parties represented in Parliament, which represent the measures of the fourteen as unwarranted, unfair, against the objective and the dignity of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer! I was in Brussels yesterday and spoke with the President of the Council of Portugal, Prime Minister Guterres. We are currently in a very crucial phase. He is driving through Europe's most important capitals this week, and in this context we have shed light on some personal discussions and opportunities. I think it would do well if a divided national council did not convey the image of a divided country, but if Austria, represented by its people's representatives, appeared together if injustice happened to us. - I'm looking for you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also say very clearly to you that in all my speeches and speeches I always plead to maintain the greatest possible sensitivity and attention. I think it is wrong to qualify other European statesmen in any way. But I also say quite openly to you: Imagine an Austrian minister, an Austrian member of the European Council, publicly stating that the objective of the Austrian government is to overthrow the government of another country – I do not call it the name now. How about the international reaction? I ask you: Who in Europe has defended us? And was there a cry here in Parliament against all the political parties? – I say openly to you: I regret that different measurements are being made here, because this is not happening today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll take one of them. Today – I have just received the press release – the Flemish Foreign Trade Minister, that is, the Flemish part of Belgium, has distanced himself on behalf of the official Flanders of various harmful statements by some Belgian celebrities. – This example too deserves to be stressed, because I am convinced that it has been much more difficult for him to do so than we would be able to act together against discrimination against Austrian citizens or also against the devaluation and exclusion of our country. So I really ask you: Let us try everything we can to achieve a joint resolution today, and please move the debate into Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen! The control of the Austrian government, formed of ÖVP and FPÖ, can never be carried out by outside experts, can never be delegated to experts, three of whom are elected by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, the government parties and the opposition, but the control of a democratic government is carried out here in Parliament: by you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore ask you very directly: Do you not trust that a normal, democratic, objective debate is taking place here in Parliament? . We do not need a virtue committee, as it used to be, which actually replaces Parliament, the Federal President and, basically, the political parties. This makes no sense in a democracy in the 21st century. 19th century! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Disgusting, this is a joke!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] With your permission, Mr President, on the real issue of the day. The SPÖ asked for a special meeting on the privatisation of a part of the Austrian industry, and I am ready to comment on it in detail. However, in the explanatory statement of the question, there are a number of findings which I cannot resist. We do not burden one-sidedly, we do not save for the sake of self-interest, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are restoring the budget so that we will finally have room for manoeuvre in two years. We do not privatize companies for the purpose of self-interest or sale, but therefore the taxpayer must never be liable for the debts of the past! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We require the health insurance companies to make decisions so that the first-class and high level of medical care in Austria is preserved and no contribution increases endanger the location of Austria. – We have proved that, and we want to continue to do so. We receive the Austrian banking secret, which is one of the best in the world, and with the abolition of the savings book anonymity, we avoid a severe crisis of trust in the Austrian financial market. We have agreed in the Federal Government to enforce social justice in the workplace, and we are not burdening it, but we are burdening it, helping the workers to get the same social rights as the workers in the case of illness or prevention. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are not burdening, but we are facing the generous tax reform, which amounts to 1. Years this year has entered into force and should have been much smaller according to the will of former Minister – and we also want to achieve a discharge package for each Austrian household by liberalising the electricity and gas markets. And it will prepare a package of measures for cheaper living, for lower housing costs, which will also help small people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Lisbon, on behalf of the EU Commission, Romano Prodi will make a proposal on how to halve child poverty in the next ten years. With the tax reform and with our family policy objectives, which we will implement over the next three years, we are already halving the poverty of children in Austria by half. And that's what we're proud of! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The ÖIAG privatisation strategy is on the same line. Contrary to what you have claimed here, this new ÖIAG law is a clear advantage for businesses, for managers, for supervisory councils, for employees in businesses, for the first time there are clear and clear guidelines: There is an independent, only more qualified Supervisory Board, which is not determined by any political origin, but selected by independent headshunters and personnel consultants, then confirmed by the Federal Government and then added itself every two years again and again. – You can only dream of the SPÖ! You have never given up this political influence! On the other hand, we are ready to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Furthermore, there are clarifications that the Supervisory Board can only be convened in the decisive worst case case case case case case, in the worst case, if, as is stated in the Statute, important questions are violated. In addition, there is a legal situation in Austria, which will bring a number of decisive benefits to this draft law. Firstly, a clear use of privatisation proceeds. This will allow the ÖIAG to carry out the total debt reduction during this legislative period. I'm asking: Where was your vigilance when over the last three years 9 billion schillings in privatization payments were not used to repay debts for which the taxpayer was liable, but were just spent for interest payments?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where were you?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Today we have the same number of debts, as it was ten years ago. The responsibility for this was Your then Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This brings to a clear conclusion the current policy of short-term orientation and the absurd use of privatisation proceeds exclusively for interest payments of the ÖIAG debt. In contrast to the previous ÖIAG Act, the new ÖIAG Board of Directors, which has been selected by you, has all the options of participation policy: It can fully privatize, it can enter strategic partnerships or alliances, and it can take part in capital increases. And no one from politics will interfere! The Boards and Supervisory Boards decide in the interests of businesses, in the interests of employees and shareholders, which instruments are useful. In other words, nothing is written forever, not even the 25 percent share, but it is also possible to have a strategic partnership if this makes it possible to achieve better development. I'm convinced: This law is a first-class model of how to make the old national policy a new industrial policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And it's not like it's supposed to be sold tomorrow. We have tabled a legislative proposal which is now being discussed in Parliament. This law is supposed to be with 1. In May 2000, we also want to appoint a new, completely independent ÖIAG Supervisory Board in the Federal Government, and then the ÖIAG Board will have the opportunity to prepare two very important projects within the next few months, carefully and professionally. The first project is the full privatisation of the P.S.K. This is a very important point; in this respect already the preparation has begun. Implementation will be implemented by the end of 2000, beginning in 2001. The second major model will be a stock exchange launch of Telekom Austria, with the aim of selling about 30 percent this year. – This is one of the very big boosts of the Vienna Stock Exchange, and I believe that this will be a highly successful privatisation in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, head of the SPÖ opposition! I should like to point out here that two of the most successful privatization examples are exemplary internationally and in Europe; one has just won a choice with such an example, namely the Spanish Prime Minister José María Aznar, who has privatized Telefónica to 100 percent. And no man comes to the idea that the decisions of Telefónica do not fall in Spain! And also the British Telecom, which was also brought to the stock market to 100 percent, is a first-class example of how to do it: not by brakes, by blocking off, but by professional privatisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, you have rightly pointed out that individual managers have made very different, also critical comments on our proposal. - I'd like to go in on it. Let us take a look at what, after the final texts have been announced, the most important ones are telling them! Claus Raidl, head of Böhler-Uddeholm, is quoted in today's edition of the "Standard": "The ÖIAG Act is now a good basis for further privatisation and permanent depoliticization, as the idea of the foundation is more expressed with these changes and the influence of politicians is falling." - Quote. - Great! There's nothing to add to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What, Mr Gusenbauer, does the ÖIAG Board of Directors, still set up under the previous government, say about this new law? In this board there are at least two former ministers, Rudolf Streicher and Johannes Ditz. Both are very much concerned with industrial, economic and national policy issues. The ÖIAG Board of Directors literally says – I quote from today's issue of the "Salzburger Nachrichten": "With these conditions, the companies, the employees and the ÖIAG can live well. This is a solid basis for the future." - Quote. – This new law is so positive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think that the special session is at the right time so that you can discuss it too. "For a "Panikmache" – literally! – ‘in the direction of sale’ there is therefore no reason: ,Industrial and employment effects can only come from the strength of competition. Everything else would be a relapse to the dirigism of the past.’ For the first time, says Ditz, “there are clear medium-term conditions for privatisation. ... In the future, the dividends for interest rates would automatically... and the privatisation proceeds beyond the book values for the repayment of debt... "............................................................................................................................................................ And and and so. Also literally at the end of this article: "The special session of the National Council on privatization is "perhaps well meant, but extremely harmful to the capital market", says Ditz. “All should be interested that this law enters into force very quickly and returns to rest.” – adding nothing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now on the questions in detail, after we have in principle dealt with the points. Question 1: What are the societies to be privatized in accordance with the draft law? The answer: The list of establishments is completely identical to the list of companies which should have been privatized according to written but not signed SPÖ/ÖVP fact. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In any event, this list includes state printing, the Dorotheum, Printmedia AG, Vienna Airport, P.S.K., Telekom and Austria Tobacco; Privatisation up to 100 percent. Further privatisations – stock exchange, taking in strategic partners, and so on – are to be decided by the ÖIAG bodies, taking into account the economic sense. On question 2: Which criteria did this list create? In part, as mentioned above, it is based on existing privatisation considerations and intentions; State printing and so on were already transferred to the ÖIAG for privatisation. In addition, of course, the considerations of how the privatisations achieve the best possible economic yield play a role. In particular P.S.K., as I said, and Telekom seems economically meaningful and necessary on the recommendation of experts for privatisation, for a first privatisation tranche. On question 3 – I have to smile a little bit –: Why was the Council of Ministers' privatisation decision not published? Please, Mr Gusenbauer, let me tell you: This privatisation order is literally in the Federal Press Service's Council of Ministers of the Federal Press Service of 29 November. This year's publication, published and even presented by Mrs Vice-Chancellor and me at a press conference. So one. More on publications is really not possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction SPÖ) change the press unit!]] Question 4: With this privatisation concept, how does the Federal Government intend to ensure that companies continue to invest, research and secure their employees at the Austrian site? On the one hand, we want to reduce the additional wage costs. This is, I believe, a very important area which benefits all farms, but of course also the ÖIAG companies. At the Lisbon European Council in particular, we are talking about increasing the involvement and use of information technology. We want to strengthen research and development with this focus: 2.5 percent own research stopper, concentration of all research institutions at a Ministry of Infrastructure. I personally think there is a lot of music in there for the location Austria. I believe that the country or the economy should not really be ill. So far, we have 475 requests from international companies that now want to settle in Austria. Coca Cola has just chosen Vienna as the third largest location in the world, from which a total of 34 countries are to be cared for together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the opera ball, the deputy CEO of Daimler-Benz told me that Daimler-Benz will invest 50 billion Schilling in Graz's site over the next ten years. – So no reason for Krisaryede! Ladies and gentlemen! Let us be proud of our location and do everything we can to further improve it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Question 5: Hold Do you have sufficient capacity for the Austrian capital market? The answer is: Of course! The real problem for the public stock market square in Vienna is that the newly elected chairman of the Vienna Stock Exchange, a very interesting man named Dr. Zapotocky, who has been fully active in the securities and stock business for ten years, said: If you compare the stock exchanges, then insist that Vienna has a trade volume of 100 million euros per day, the Zurich Stock Exchange the 20 times that, London the 60 times, and we don't talk about the Americans at all. - Quote. Let's compare the ratios, the yields: Vienna has a shadow existence. – But, please, not because of this federal government; be Please be so objective. We have a huge problem: too few interested, far too little advertising for the climate at this location; far too few Austrians buy shares, 4 to 5 percent compared to a multiple in other European countries. That is why we, the Minister of Finance in particular, are now gradually trying to revive the capital market by abolishing the exchange rate tax, by not introducing the speculation tax at last. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Then, of course, it also comes to the fact that our regulations are very restrictive. I will take action in Lisbon to ensure that the pension funds are given more liberal forms of responsibility. These are the fastest growing funds and institutional investors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There you will also find exactly the institutional core we are looking for for for our businesses, so that the decision remains in Austria for example. This is exactly the concept that we want to represent together. Now on question 6: Which proceeds do you expect from the privatisations? First of all, I have to say that it is difficult to predict all the proceeds now, because there will be very deep analysis and evaluations. But I expect that at least during this legislative period, we will really get rid of the entire outstanding debt – that is now for ÖIAG plus former post debt of about 80 billion schilling. If we create this in conjunction with a kind of "people's share", in conjunction with an advertisement for an employee's participation, then we've done more for the location than has happened in the last ten years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Question 7 is done with it. Question 8: How do you intend to prevent enemy takeovers in the future? May I say openly: This defensive disturbs me, because in reality, of course, economy is never a one-way road. Look In the last few years, you've been looking at the lively Austrian economy: The AT, from which you have now almost made a crisis case, has bought by 7.5 billion Schilling Swedish Match. The Wienerbergers, also the VOEST of course or many others have developed into small international multis. We are not constantly afraid of the hostile exaggerators and of the large foreigners, but we trust in the power of our businesses and help them to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, ÖIAG has every opportunity to enter strategic alliances. That is also absolutely useful. Why should it not – such as the Austrian Airlines or the banking landscape, as well as the ATW – be able to take appropriate industrial political alliances into account? But please do not be under political pressure, not by delaying reforms! I should like to say a very serious word: What hit me personally, for example, was that in the telecommunications sector, we don't have the performance we should actually have. And you know why? I was there, I was a witness: because the Minister of State and Minister of Transport – you know who it was – for a very long time prevented one from splitting and bringing the individual competitive areas and sectors of the former post, which was a whole, to the stock market and making it partnerable. We've lost years of that. Considering how the last staff decision passed 16, 18 months ago, which, as I hear, should not have gone completely politically, considering that practically the entire board of directors is now going, I think, this is not exactly a model example of industrial success or the concept for which you have just come up in your speech. Let's be honest. Let us try another way, a more modern way, as it has already been very successful in many other countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Question 9 with regard to the stable core shareholder. I have already said that there are some possibilities: Pension funds, banks, strategic alliances; there is a lot to think about. However, I do not want this to be exclusively the state or public-law bodies. There's a little more imagination required. We have already commissioned some studies in this area. I am convinced that we will succeed, which can become quite exciting. Question 10: Depolitanization. I already mentioned it: We will make a complete reconstruction of the Supervisory Board. We want to turn on staff consultants who will present us with a list of top-class qualified professionals. And in the first order of the Supervisory Board, the Federal Government will consider this motive. The right of appointment of the owner shall ensure that the ownership responsibility remains, but in order to ensure the functioning and independence of the Supervisory Board, such withdrawal of the General Supervisory Council is only possible for important reasons. In addition, of course, the post-employment takes place according to the principle of self-completion. On question 11 concerning employees' representatives: Hiezu is to say: The lack of a company relationship between ÖIAG and the participating companies would not at all constitute a right of posting for employees' representatives without a legal regime. However, we want such social partnership co-determination, and that is why the provision of § 5 para. 1 a third parity scheme, which, by the way, goes far beyond European legal standards. We're on it! We want this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These members – as in the current ÖIAG Act – are nominated by the Federal Chamber of Labour, the appointment and appointment by the Annual General Meeting is in accordance with the usual provisions of the share right. On questions 12 to 14 concerning the merger of ÖIAG/PTA/PTBG: It is also a concept that was debated one by one in the previous Federal Government – and was also out of dispute. It is about merger by merger by law with in-force cracks of the ÖIAG Act at the beginning of May, but retroactively to the 31st. On the basis of the 1999 balance sheets. As already mentioned, the government will no longer have a political influence on the operations of this company. This means, of course, that investors also have much more confidence in such values. I very much hope that the opposition also welcomes what is to be thanked for, by the way, because for the first time the debate – which I very much welcome – takes place here in Parliament again. But we should also help these businesses, and we should be very consciously reluctant with statements that can, of course, influence the markets. The merger is necessary in order to achieve a flat decision hierarchy, especially with Telekom and Post, and a single billing circle. This is the only way to free all the undertakings concerned and thus the taxpayer from the entire debt burden of the former national authorities. And, of course, this will significantly improve the development opportunities of ÖIAG – also in view of the subsequent participations of ÖIAG. Question 15: What measures will we take as owners to prevent further price losses of ÖIAG companies? Through privatisation, we deliberately want to create confidence among investors. I believe that the clarifications that have now been made and also the statements of the experts will help to achieve this objective. We also deliberately want to help the market square in Vienna. You can be sure that in the autumn the most successful privatisation actions of history will begin in Vienna, and then, I believe, we will be able to assess this situation on the basis of facts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the last question with regard to the commitments to be found: The refunding obligations will be reduced step by step at the same time as the debt reduction and will, of course, be contained in the relevant balance sheets. The departure takes place train by train. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for putting this urgent question, so give us the opportunity, for the first time, to show us exactly what we really intend to do to a wide audience, which is also watching through television. So there is no horror scenario planned, but a careful, professional, independent privatisation: in the interests of businesses, shareholders and employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2965	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. We are now entering the debate. The Rules of Procedure shall be known as follows: Each group has 25 minutes of speaking time; the individual speaking times are up to 10 minutes per Member. Mr Edlinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2993	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the comments made by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Bundeskanzler on the international situation of Austria. Indeed, the Austrian Federal Government has international problems. In recent days, not only the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance in Brussels, but also many social democratic mandates, former members of the Federal Government, have maintained those contacts that will help to normalize the situation between the Austrian people on the one hand and our friends within the European Union on the other. And to the difference of government members, social democrats in Europe find interlocutors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Bundeskanzler, spoke today about your wish for an shoulder closure. There you have to ask the question of what content you want such a shoulder closure. When it comes to averting miscarriages for the Austrian population, we Socialists are ready for such a close. This is not possible, however, if you do not address the cause of this isolation of Austria with a few papers and motions for resolutions. I would like to say this clearly here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] And the causes are the humane, the inhumane and the right-wing expressions of individual members of this government and a party in particular. [[New calls to the liberals.]] And as long as that doesn't stop, there's no point in an shoulder closure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have thought very much about the preamble of your government declaration, but, very honoured Federal Chancellor, I miss you to watch over the observance of this Preamble, by all the members of your government. You, Mr. Federal Chancellor, fail in this function – as in many others! And that should be said in all clarity here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the context of a debate on a urgent matter, a speaker has only 10 minutes of time, so I will now devote myself to the real issue. Today's debate is therefore urgent because not only Parliament, but above all the public, has the right to know what this Federal Government is doing with important Austrian companies, and it is also urgent because the statements made by important representatives of the government parties were different and caused strong reactions not only in the opposition or in the trade unions, but also in well-known economic experts. It is not least necessary because the way of the ÖIAG has been extremely successful under social democratic leadership since 1994. You have pointed out several times that we are dealing with outstanding Austrian listed international companies today. But it is obviously your goal to remove these companies from the location Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thankfully, Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke yesterday in his press conference about the "success story of privatisation". – I recognize the form of privatisation we have pursued since 1994. But it is just as bad and does not fit together if, Mr President, you, on the one hand, sincerely welcome the positive development of the companies and on the other hand note in the same breath: Business success story, but the state is a bad businessman! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, I think it is very essential that what we call in literature and also in economic reality remains the determining factor in a stock company, if you want, as the core shareholder, to remain under secure Austrian domination. And there is no alternative to ÖIAG in the next few years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Government is now pursuing a strategy that leads to a total sale. It should be decided – as I mean: an oeiag law without public assessment. It was not until after long intervention that such a one was promised, and I hope that this will be ensured in the committee this evening. The Federal Chancellor, after the government decision, spoke of a comprehensive de-stateization programme – one has to break down on the tongue, which tends to be expressed in such a statement! – and Mr Grasser is telling the truth. [[Calls.]] It is not about businesses, but about achieving as high rewards as possible, as he stated after the Federal Government meeting on 29 October. In other words, it is not about securing the existence of these enterprises, but about withdrawing proceeds, and the fate of the employees, but also the fate of the industrial site Austria does not matter to him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A total privatisation of major important Austrian economic activities would be a wrong way for the economy of our country, the jobs and the economic location of Austria for many reasons. And I'm not just quoting the economic editor who meant: Stop the nonsense that has been fired by the government!, but also point to the criticism that much can no longer be corrected afterwards, because the attempted attack, this repoliticization in the field of supervisory councils, this discussion alone has done enough damage and the value of these ventures has come down into the basement. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have heard with great interest that you have actually referred to those supervisory councils working here today as party clubs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Eigentor!]] And I've asked who you mean several times. Tell the public who these party clubs, who actually get the recommendations from secretariats, are! Mr Kehrer, Mr Koren, Mr Wolfsberger, Mr Scharinger, Mr Rothensteiner, Mr Wenckheim, Mr Wailand, Mr Krejci, therefore, excellent personalities are sitting on the Supervisory Board of Austrian Enterprises. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you discriminate against these men, that's something you have to deal with yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, two comments: I do not want to say in principle that a reorganisation of the ÖIAG is necessary. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God, consensus!]] I didn't make any sense of it as Minister of Finance. Firstly, a clear holding of participation from the ÖIAG should be established in addition to the fulfilment of the privatisation mandate. This is a crucial step in the future. Secondly, the necessary merger of PTBG/PTA into the ÖIAG is at hand. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What did you do in the 30 years?]] However, it is necessary – the preparations have been made in time – to develop a multi-annual and smart concept. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen, there is a considerable need for further privatisation where it is appropriate. We are in favour of keeping a maximum of value added and jobs in Austria. We are in favour of securing core property in order to be able to determine the location issues. There must be no concealment of the family silver. The works councils of all political groups have strongly warned against this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3154	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3169	What you're doing, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not progress, but it is a step backwards in the economic liberalism of the 19th century. ==References== Therefore, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen: Stop You don't like that!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3199	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3221	Yes, Mr. Ex-Finanzminister, it's over with funny, it's ended with funny debt making, that's right. It is also concluded, Mr Gusenbauer, to count on the short-term memory of the population. Six to eight weeks ago, you conducted coalition negotiations. There was the privatisation of these companies which we are discussing today, a central point of your action, the debt of the ÖIAG and the post. And now, because you don't do that because you're in opposition, the proper privatisation is called into question. Quite clear, because you're not there anymore. Her party, the Social Democratic Party, has been the Federal Chancellor for 30 years. They began to rule 30 years ago, in 1969, in Austria, a debt-free country. In 1999 you handed over this country with 1,700 billion schilling debts from the next government. They have managed in these 30 years to bring the nationalized industry to 100 000 jobs. Now put yourself here and say: Jobs are at risk in the event of privatisation. - I guess I can only laugh at that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Have you forgotten what the restructuring of the Landesbank cost? Have you forgotten what the restoration of the VOEST cost? Have you forgotten the 120 billion schilling that came out of the budget? Have you also forgotten that the control bank still has to make re-indebtedness today because it has financed orders from the nationalized industry, where from the outset one knew that they are not paid, whether in Russia or elsewhere, everything under social democratic leadership. This is the development of the ÖIAG under your leadership! In addition, you have the highest tax rate for taxpayers, the highest tax rate in EU countries. The most indebted country They hand over to us with 2 percent new debt – quite contrary to the trend of the 15 countries in the European Union. We have an increase in total debt – quite contrary to the trend of European countries. All of this, so to speak, as a challenge. That is to say, you have been disbursed by the taxpayer, you have facilitated the nationalized industry by 100 000 jobs. Straight Their ex-Kanzler climate was the one that gave a guarantee for the Telekom jobs. He said: Under my leadership as Minister of Transport, there will be no loss of jobs! – 12,000 jobs were gone! And we're facing the situation today. That is why I can only tell you: The SPÖ has failed as an entrepreneur on all lines. You know it yourself! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Their privatisation efforts have only reached a peak once. Do you know when that was? – In 1997, when Bank Austria urgently went to ao. We've been looking for income and this ao. Income by taking over the CA has been found because it was not under its leadership. That's where the profits came from. This was your only real privatisation by raising the money from CA towards Bank Austria. All the other privatisations since 1991, i.e. the last ten years, were at least 10 percent of what you have done. From 1991 to 1998, they carried out privatizations of around 80 billion schillings and have realized 8 billion schillings, except for CA privatisation. That's it! We now have to make the privatisations that you have always included in your programme, but which you have not made, although you are urgently necessary. In the meantime, you have led the "consumer" – today the fifth anniversary of the "consumer" – neatly into the pleite. In addition, you have just explained – the last mission of Mr. Viktor Klima – that you are only one for party finances. April, as far as I understand correctly. ==References== April She's in charge of it. Until then, a few hundred million schillings still have to be found in your party finances, because there too you have exposed yourself as a really bad entrepreneur, as a bad financial manager. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] I always noticed you as a "creative accountant." Since the debt in the budget was not high enough, you still made 300 billion debts outside the budget. Such a "creative accountant" I wish myself in my company! Only make debts, Mr. Ex-cult Minister! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I need to tell you something: What really hurts you is that you have to take an additional loss of your power structure with the national lights. That's what it's all about! Privilegia, Proporz: All this has been your handwriting! In a book about your chancellor Vranitzky says: Vranitzky was recalculated about 8,000 S hourly wages for his work in the Landesbank. – The fact that you can occupy fewer and less of those positions as a result of the privatisation carried out by us means the loss of power that you already cry after today. You know there will be no such positions for you in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Whether you've done it at AUA, whether you've accommodated parliamentarian Kaufmann at the airport, whether you've brought the ex-Secretary of Climate Marc Hall into the OMV – you definitely know exactly how it works. Since that's the end, you're against a privatisation now. In the future, they cannot sign and say: That's where we're going! You have never thought about the benefits of the employees in the companies. Imagine being an employee in the nationalized industry who reads daily in the newspaper: The state-run industry is going badly, employee reduction et cetera. – You never thought of that! These were the 100,000 people who, under your aegide, cut down the national lights. Remember that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor has already said it: Internationally, the withdrawal of the state from the economy is announced. There is no country in Europe where privatisation has not become a decisive success for jobs and businesses. They have made statements in terms of privatisation, but they have not realized anything. They have left the basic loads of the Austrian nationalized industry, they have not gone into new technologies. You have to face a loss of value at Telekom every day, because alternative providers are there and your contract with the Mobil Italia is a very bad one, which we will still have to bite in this privatisation. The ÖIAG cannot cover its own debts. That was your policy, Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger! The 50 billion schilling debts of ÖIAG you can not eliminate alone from the assets of ÖIAG and the dividends. The Federal Chancellor said it: 9 billion schilling of dividends were used for nothing but interest payments. That is why I say to you: Now we have to merge the post into the ÖIAG so that we can cover the debt of the ÖIAG. I would like to say a few words to you: Every housewife looks at her savings rates. The return on capital of the nationalized industry is under any criticism. Therefore, the VOEST Alpine and the OMV, which have a very low stock exchange value and a very low return on capital, and do not even earn the interest of a better-established savings book, have come so far under your leadership. Now is the end of fun, now there's a new government! This will make a new policy and give back to the taxpayer what you have taken away from him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3345	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3366	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Minister and Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of a good discussion culture, I would like to begin by thanking you from the Socialist Group for today's special meeting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You know – and I don't make any sense – that the People's Party has often had the following problem in recent years: first-class performance, excellent concepts sold badly. – The combination of parliamentary special meetings and ORF transfers is a great advantage for us. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I assume that, after today's special meeting, the opinion researchers will say the same thing as after the last special session, namely: Every appearance of the Federal Chancellor on television is a plus for the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Oh, no, no, no,]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] First of all, Mr Gusenbauer's speech. [[Abg. May. Trattner: The founder is no longer there! Just for the protocol! He's probably preparing for the next party meeting!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Kostelka is calling!]] He is no longer there, obviously he has more important to do than to be present at the special meeting he has convened with his group. – He has addressed the national shoulder closure. It was our Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner and it was the Federal Chancellor before and today who invited you to participate in this national shoulder closure. Austria is stronger when all four political groups here in Parliament appear closed. It was the Socialist Group that so far refused to condemn the unfair, overburdened and the European idea of condemning harmful sanctions. Make a picture of it, ladies and gentlemen! So far, the SPÖ has always rejected that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this context, a congratulations to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. I've read the prestigious "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" today. That's the first sentence in a comment: "Cushion was in Brussels, he wasn't in Canossa. Austria has emerged as a moral winner from the dispute that led to the bowl." – This is what the prestigious "Frankfurter Zeitung" writes. Federal Chancellor, congratulations for the "moral winner"! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: But also the Minister of Finance!]] The Minister of Finance is also involved. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say quite openly what is bothering me in the previous debate. We – and this applies to both government groups – take people’s concerns about their jobs seriously. But taking worry seriously and fearing how you do it is a huge difference. We're really worried, you're afraid, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is indeed irresponsible panic, if you say here from the speaker's desk that 120 000 jobs are at risk, it is about selling out the family silver. – Yes, please, tell the whole truth! The family silver is burdened with 80 billion schilling debts! The heritage of Kreisky, the heritage of Sinowatz, the heritage of Vranitzky and the heritage of climate: That is the full truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] I still believe, Mr Ex-Finanzminister, that with regard to the election of this special meeting today, Sigmund Freud has been a little involved in your work. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Almost exactly on the same day, five years ago, the "consumer" plea in the history of this country, and at that time to hold a special session on the subject of "sale of the country", is already a huge achievement! [[Call the ÖVP:Ah so!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud that the economic history of the Second Republic, which has been a success story for the past 50 years – with two major exceptions: National disaster and "consumer" plea. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Consumer"!]] We all know how that was caused. It was caused, ladies and gentlemen, that socialist union officials believed they had to play business. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Point exact!]] This is always going wrong, ladies and gentlemen, and unfortunately the taxpayer has had to experience it very painfully. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] This is why we are also making a new momentum towards privatisation. We feel like the taxpayer's lawyer. We will not allow the taxpayer to be asked to cash out again – just so that some trade union officials of your group have an industrial policy field. [[towards SPÖ]] We will – on the contrary! – in the interest of the taxpayer, to repay the 80 billion schilling debt from privatisation proceeds – in the interest of the taxpayer and in the interest of securing the future of our country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I also criticize your false understanding of industrial policy. Today, industrial policy cannot mean that the state is intervening in industrial enterprises. Today, industrial policy is a site policy. We must create conditions that it is attractive to invest in Austria – also for foreign investors. If you say here that if, as a result of the privatisation of foreign investors, jobs from Austria are so to speak, then this is basically a huge insult to all foreign investors. Companies like Philips, Siemens and many others have created hundreds of thousands of jobs in Austria in recent years. They contribute more than 60 percent to research and development performance in Austria. Worldwide, we are promoting foreign investors to come to Austria, but you are insulting them with this argument. Yes, don't you know how schizophrenic this argument is? We advertise worldwide: Please, come to Austria! Invest here! But you explain here: When foreigners come, jobs are lost, wealth is destroyed. – This is a schizophrenic argument, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The opposite is the case. Only recently did the OECD, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, publish a study in the prestigious economic magazine "The Economist", published in January of this year, with evidence that employment growth in privatized enterprises is generally higher than that in non-private enterprises – a clear proof by the OECD to read in the January edition of the economic magazine "The Economist", my dear ladies and gentlemen. But of course you don't know everything. They come to the speaker's desk and fear people with cheap polemics. And we condemn that! Politics should not be afraid, politics should be a source of courage, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We only experienced a few days ago in Spain that we can win important elections with courageous privatisation concepts: There was a courageous privatisation concept of Aznar and a tremendous success in the elections. I am convinced that what this Federal Government is taking into account will be just as successful as it will be in continuing this success story, namely the privatisation of businesses in Austria in the sense of sustainable future security, in the sense of lasting job security. I agree with what Professor Felder said yesterday on television: Jobs in privatised establishments are still safer than in semi-stated establishments.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3570	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3592	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Apparently every speaker starts today with a brief comment on the situation of Austria in relation to the 14 of the EU. Then I'll do the same. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Federal Chancellor! They always try to suggest with the word "we" that there is such a kind of stew from the People's Party, Freemans, Social Democrats and Greens. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We Austrian!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: But there are Austrians, Mr. Colleague!]] - Yes, I do. I'm just telling you one thing: I drive as a good Austrian patriot, as I hope tomorrow to Paris, the day after tomorrow and also on Friday I will be in London. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We don't care about your travel plans!]] On this trip, I will do exactly what we have already done, namely to promote... – [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I hope you will not demonstrate against Austria!]] Mr Haigermoser will also be able to listen for 10 seconds. If not, I'm forced to move on. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You light, don't you?- Oh, my God!]] On these trips I always do the following, namely, I try to promote that there are no overwhelming reactions that the relations of the so-called foreign country – the EU-14 are not foreign to us – in cultural terms, in economic terms, in the students, in the scientists, in the art-makers and so on, and are not restricted – especially in the situation we are in today! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mrs. Petrovic is going to demonstrate abroad against Austria!]] My further effort is to ensure that we need, in the medium term at EU level, a procedure similar to that already in place in another area, in some way, in the Stability Pact. No matter how it may be understood in terms of the concept of this pact, there is at EU level a procedure with reporting obligations, with reactions from the Commission, the ECOFIN Council, the Council of Ministers and so on, and if everything goes wrong, the Pact also provides for sanctions. Something similar is needed in a case like this, I say now quite neutral. Austria is the occasion. But it can soon also meet other countries, for example, candidate countries, and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] There are already preparatory work in the sense of developing a European catalogue of fundamental rights – that is to be defined more precisely – so that not everyone is more or less involved. – libertarian or, at any rate, without precise demarcation of these terms. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What do you want the candidate candidates to do with this?]] One more thing, Mr. Federal Chancellor: I am also skeptical of the SPÖ proposal concerning this Neuner body, this group of observers. However, I do not fully understand why, in my opinion, you have called it a "committee of virtue" disqualifying. This is where I understand the SPÖ correctly, for example, whether there are racist statements and, in general, whether the Preamble of the Coalition Treaty is respected. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: In France? In all countries?]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We are not a protectorate!]] This may have something to do with virtue and untruth, but I have felt that your statement is very disqualifying. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the actual item on the agenda. I feel something... – An intermediate call. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An intermediate call!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you consider the EU sanctions justified or not? A clear word about this!]] - I've said that many times. The sanctions against the Federal Government are absolutely understandable on the basis of FPÖ's government participation, but in a number of cases there have been excessive, non-agreed reactions. [[Unrest at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You're insulting 1.3 million voters!]] We are fighting for these reactions to cease. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I am not going to let myself off the agenda anymore – no matter what the right side of the hall says about it. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Jaja!]] I felt somewhat uncomfortable with this urgent request because one can get the impression at the SPÖ: After all, it would be best if everything remained with the old. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes! That's right!]] The status quo is the best. – I know you don’t think so, but you could have this feeling according to the previous statements. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Structural Conservative!]] On the other hand, at the People's Party – I'm going to nuance it – one could sometimes gain the impression of a mirrored Vulgärmarxism in the last few days. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now we get it!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Marx says: All the evil of this world lies in private property in the means of production. – Mirrors the ÖVP: We just need to privatize, and everything's dead. - Isn't it? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I understand!]] That's what I meant by my characterization. [[Abg. May. Steindl: You don't even get applause from your own group!]] Federal Chancellor Schüssel has today declared himself much more nuanced, I have to say. For example, I believe that the objective of reducing the debt of 80 billion schilling in the foreseeable future is to achieve a legitimate objective. [[Call the Freeman: Just keep doing this, Professor!]] I wonder, in between: Where did the other billions stay from the post office? – There are still a few billions missing, but let's say: 80 billion schillings are currently under debate. I would have thought it would have failed if this mission had been given as a global mission to the ÖIAG or to the newly constructed holding company and not, as it were, through a political intervention of the Council of Ministers, as it should be done with the individual companies. It's supposed to be for professionals to decide. Why politicians?, and be it as "highly qualified" as the current in the Federal Government – ironically meant, otherwise it is misleading in the protocol. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: He was bad!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You said that honestly!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That was a joy!]] I believe that it was also a mistake to let the discussion go away, that it was primarily about fiscal issues. I think this is very wrong. It is already important how much the covenant will redeem in total, but the highest bidder is not always the best bidder, as we know, and this also applies in this case. What is best for a particular company is always quite difficult to assess for an outsider. Is it the new strategic partner? Is it the old strategic partner? Is it a new or old core shareholder? Is it the privatisation of another 5 or 10 percent via the stock market and so on? – You have to check that in every individual case. All of this is not in the law – it is clear, that can't be in the law either – but I think it is a mistake that the Federal Government has already made such great demands in this regard. In my opinion, manual mistakes have also happened. As a craftsman, I consider, for example, statements made by Minister Grasser, who, for their part, are, I believe, covered by appropriate decisions of the Federal Government, for example with VOEST Alpine Stahl, which is now planned. The issue of another 10 percent on the stock exchange would be still unproblematic, I assume. [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... the ÖIAG, not the Minister of Finance!]] But then to say that the next 25 percent will soon be in the debate, which is uncertain to the capital market, that must reduce the price. The company then does not know what it is about, it does not know whether it can refer to a nuclear shareholder in the future or not. I see you have distracted me enough with the issue of the EU-14. I therefore come to one point only, and this concerns the appointment of the Supervisory Boards. If you succeed in depoliticizing the supervisory boards, that's something nice. Of course, the previous procedure does not necessarily have the best to expect. Minister Grasser still has to explain why he will accept the Tenders in a few minutes or hours as a contracting partner, a company that rather suggests that it will come to a new nepotism, however without a party book. I do not want the red-black proporz to be replaced by a blue-black proporz or second by a nepotism without a party book. I refer in this context only to the issue of the daily newspaper "Die Presse" of 10. March, in which it is described in detail that the company Zehender or its managing director has a close relationship with the FPÖ. - That's how it is, I think, not how it is! This gives the wrong signals, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: Many of the concerns expressed here by the SPÖ representatives are understandable. But as such, as facts, they are not in the law, but you interpret something you expect to happen in practice. It can also come differently. The idea of ordering supervisory boards for eight years on the basis of the model of the European Central Bank is not bad. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's why it's as important as the initial equipment looks.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3995	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4011	The final sentence reads as follows: The law provides a general framework to be completed in practice. In three years we'll know if this was something good or something bad. Today, this question remains open.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4041	The next speaker is Mr Finanzminister's debate. The speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4062	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The question why this Austrian government has put a comprehensive privatisation programme at the heart of its coalition agreement is easy to answer from my point of view. I would like to take a positive view of what Mr Van der Bellen has done. I agree with you: We do not necessarily want to highlight the monetary aspect. This is a positive side effect. It is above all a fundamental economic policy conviction why "more private – less state!" It is simply positive for the employees and for the companies in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There are therefore two aspects of why we want to privatize, namely, that is why the monetary aspect plays a role – because we have taken over the following state: In ÖIAG and in the postal sector, we had to have a heavy inheritance with more than 80 billion schilling debts – more than 80 billion schilling debts! - take over. Now it is a huge concern for us to ensure that these debts do not fall back on the population through more taxes or taxes. We want to ensure proper financial conditions, ensure that there is solid funding for our companies, and we want to get rid of this backpack of old debt of more than 80 billion schilling from the past. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is why we want to privatize, because we are simply convinced that it is economic policy-making, indeed reasonable to have more entrepreneurship in Austria, to put more private in the foreground. This is a success programme in most countries in Europe – a success programme that the European Commission also takes up in recommendations to the individual Member States by saying: Privatized more! There are studies carried out by the European Union, there are OECD studies which clearly show the following: This is happening for the creation of value, which is reasonable for the labour market, creating jobs, creating value added, which is a success programme for every government in Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at Austrian economic policies over the last decades, you have to balance that for a long time a very structural-conservative policy has been pursued, a policy that has built on pushing back competition. One has tried to eliminate competition as far as possible. One has tried to build dependencies on promotions and to keep entrepreneurs a little bit on the link to show them that the state also wants to talk with them. The state was also a central point of economic policy, it was said: Without state ownership, it cannot be done in Austria! – Although this may have been a very correct approach for the 1970s, if we have a privatisation debate here today, in which we want to seriously doubt that this federal government has a modern, innovative approach to privatisation, I would like to recall what this nationalization policy in Austria has led to in the 1980s, namely a crisis, to the collapse of the VEST in 1986. This was the trigger for one of the biggest economic crises in Austria so far – a crisis that has destroyed more than 100 billion schilling of Austrian wealth, a crisis that cost more than 50,000 jobs in Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want to repeat this policy, we want to do differently, in principle, in a modern way for the people, in the sense of safeguarding jobs and industry in our country! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would just like to give you two examples of how not to do it. The first example, ladies and gentlemen: the AMAG, a company which, because of being unable from the state side, was able to lead it positively, the taxpayer had to shoot 11.2 billion schilling in the years 1991 to 1993 – 11.2 billion schilling from the taxpayer to the AMAG! – a company where one has realized that the state cannot manage it. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: terrifying!]] That is why it was decided in 1996 to sell this company. Or should you say giving? So after more than 1,000 jobs were gone after paying more than 11 billion schillings, it was said: We're giving this company a schilling, and we're laying from the state side – from the taxpayer's side! – even more than 1.2 billion schilling on it so that someone can take this business away from us! This company was acquired in November of 1996 by Hammerer and the Constantia Group, and in 1997/1998, just over a year after the privatisation of this company, it was able to gain 306 million schilling in the AMAG. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Socialist Trade Union Policy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You will see the difference between state politics in the past and privatisation in the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hostish.]] I would like to give you another example, that of Austria's tobacco, which shows how the Federal Government and my predecessor have defined economic and industrial policy in the Office of the Minister for Finance. It has been sold by the federal government in the form of Austrian tobacco in recent years. And all that was taken into account in the privatisation proceeds of Austria's tobacco, every schilling that came from privatization, was used to pay interest for old debt. This fact was also taken up in a letter from colleagues Streicher and Ditz, who said that this could not happen because it makes no sense to sell companies, i.e. people's assets, to repay interest on old debts, because this strategy leads to the conclusion: The old debt is still there, but the wealth of the population is gone! Old debt here, interest paid to banks – and the assets is gone! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the strategy of this federal government. We said: We're paying back the old debts. We are making a clear financial policy. We free the ÖIAG from this backpack with old debts so that it can really work business, become competitive and thus create jobs! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Bring a third example! The transport office was good too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, it is really about realizing that the world has started to spin a little faster. The conditions for entrepreneurial, economic success in the world have simply changed fundamentally. Today, industrial policy can no longer function through direct influences by saying that it must be state-owned. Industrial policy can no longer function through promotion policy. It can also no longer be the political occupation of boards and supervisory councils. Mr Edlinger! I have here the entire list of Supervisory Boards in front of me, as an example I only bring you the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG: Mr. Braumann, Secretary of Mr. Lacina, is sitting there in the Supervisory Board, Ms. Schmied, who, as a member of your cabinet, was sent by you to the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG, Ms. Hagen, who was sent to this Supervisory Board as Secretary of the former Federal Chancellor. [[Call to the liberals:Aha!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And from the cabinet!]] You can continue this list. All these were political occupations of supervisory councils. I can assure you: This Austrian federal government will no longer continue a proportion of how you operated it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, we will become economic expertise, we will be competent, we will bring know-how, we will put individuals in the supervisory councils that have demonstrated in the private sector and in science that they understand their business and that they are able to make positive contributions to these companies. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, industrial policy does not mean building walls to build Austria, building restrictions on competition. Similarly, industrial policy is no longer working, because threatening to no longer create or make telephone connections is the best way to rationalize itself, to bring the company into the failure of success, to the loss zone, because there are today many providers who can bring this product just as well to customers. This cannot therefore be the strategy in the interests of Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! Modern industrial policy means modern framework conditions, and these are called: fast business start-up, the cost side for entrepreneurs, reducing additional labour costs – just as this Federal Government has done, in the order of 15 billion schilling – to create more entrepreneurship and to contribute to the increase of employees in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Modern framework conditions also mean: more staff qualification, more flexibility, permeability on the labour market, education, training and lifelong learning! This will make our industry more competitive in the future. I am convinced that this strategy of the Austrian Federal Government, namely to privatize those companies that also listed SPÖ in the old coalition agreement with the ÖVP, which it did not want to sign, is – and these are the Telekom, the postal savings bank as a bank that urgently needs a private input, the airport...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4211	Mr Minister, please pay attention to the speaking time I mentioned at the outset!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4227	... and, finally, also the Austrian tobacco, must be continued. This concerns 28 000 employees, but I can assure you that I have invited the works councils to ensure a co-operation of government and staff representatives, i.e. the employees. So there will be a common privatisation in the interests of employees and industry in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4257	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4323	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, let me make a comment on the problems that have already been raised several times with the other 14 EU countries: Whoever calls for an shoulder clasp, let him not deny the cause! Then you can also have an shoulder closure from us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's an excuse, Mr. Vergestnich! Shoulder closure is shoulder closure, and Patriot is Patriot!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Those who pursue the changing past of the ÖVP in connection with the history of the state-owned industry, the state-based enterprises, also have a corresponding "good" explanation at hand. In the first nationalization law, this ÖVP requested by a majority that these companies not sell at market prices but support the construction of the Austrian economy with prices below market value, i.e. subsidies that could be given to the companies. Today one has the feeling that the Mohr has done his guilt, now he can resign, now we privatize on devil come out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister mentioned the steel crisis as an example. – Let’s not pretend that this was just a problem of VOEST or VA steel! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Not just!]] In the 1980s, there was an international steel crisis. Every tonne of steel has been subsidized in Austria at this time with around 350 s, in the then 12 EU countries on average with 420 s – not to mention Ireland, where almost 2,000 s per tonne has been subsidized. So if we are already talking about crises, Mr Minister, then we should quote correctly and not in a very specific intention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The The same is true of Mr Secretary-General, who likes to throw fog. – You have talked about the power of the workers. I do not really know a difference between the Labour Constitution Act for private enterprises and that for the companies run by the State. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] That is why it is not a question of power for us, but we are counter-power, and if you really want to do something against the interests of industry, the private sector and the workers there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They quoted the "consumer" – by the way, a member company also the Chamber of Commerce! Let us also quote the works of Assmann, Alexander Maculan, Josef Taus, Brothers Bauknecht, Rohrmoser, Arnsteiner, Rosenstingl, Riegler or tourist advertising, when we talk about such things, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: They lost their private property!]] They play the red card, but forget that the FCG was also with Mr. Klubobmann recently and was also talked about there – from a politically different point of view, but in the matter agreed –: No privatization on devils comes out, but under reasonable conditions! – So don’t play the red card all the time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No problem at all!]] It has also been put into space, but the OECD is in fact saying that the private are the racers. That is a problem for the presentation. OECD conferences on corporate governance, on good corporate governance, on which we talk about including employees who are talking about the fact that not only the shareholder value but also the steakholder value is to be applied – we are silent! Only the private one leads the companies better, you say. Ladies and gentlemen! You need to know from experience in the economy what it looks like in reality. Is there insolvency only in the state-owned establishments? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Why did President Madethaner go to Egypt a few days ago to advertise and say for the VA steel there: A super company!Unknown term type: "%s".? – So, how would we like it? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Privatize!]] – Either way, ladies and gentlemen! Now that we are talking about a principle debate: I am glad that this special session is taking place, because it is proof that we have not yet held this principle discussion. What would have happened if we hadn't pulled the emergency brake? . You would have gone to the Industrial Committee immediately with your government proposal, without prior consideration, and would have decided there immediately and would have gone to the public. Today, you're quite different. Positive thinking has been said, the Federal Chancellor has said. There I am on his side! But how did the message speak before? – The Government Declaration states: A hundred percent sale of Austrian tobacco, the airport. And that immediately, Mr Stummvoll says, has to be budgetaryly effective in the year 2000! How would we like it? – Your press releases, your own word messages, read this in the APA, then you will see what you said yourself! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: When did I say that? Quote! I want to see that! Own your heart!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But we're going to sue the panic. I am happy to be in a panic orchestra, with Mr. Felder, with the IHS, with various other economic researchers, with commentators from the economic sector, who are now learning from you that they and we are now getting to know a change to a law already presented by this Federal Government. We do not know exactly that yet, but it seems to have been said at once that it is not quite done what was actually planned in this regard. Employee participation – in principle nothing bad! Public shares – in principle nothing bad! But, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget the reality! What about the public shares in Burgenland in the electricity sector? – At once, the EVN was the owner of these audience shares and not the audience in the broadest sense. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: And bad?]] What about the public shares or the employee participation in VA Stahl? – 20 percent of employees have signed shares there, but the current status is: Only more than 10 percent still have them, the others have sold them. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Well, 10 percent – that's something!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen? If we're talking about all these things, I have to say, I believe that we do not need to privatise an owner who, in fact, does not want to protect the property, but rather to get out of the devil. And if this special session has a meaning, then that one can now recognize a turning point of this government, because now she says she didn't mean it that way. Should we not avoid the impression that the divestment hastened? Shouldn't you avoid that? – Mr President, these are your words, the words of your statement that we have received today! Finally, it says: Therefore, the phrase "as fast as possible privatisation" should be taken out of the legislative text. [[Call the SPÖ: Here look! Very good!]] So, we have learned, we note that this government is capable of learning and is getting closer to what you have been doing since the beginning – for example, in the 1999 economic report; They now pretend that the ÖVP would never have been there – to hear: The core shareholder function is the decisive factor for Austria's industrial location. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: But not the state!]] And if you talk about the money, where the core shareholder is to come from, we will not be able to get past the ÖIAG as a participation, and not just privatize.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4539	The next speaker is Mr Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4587	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr President, you can always learn about it in life. No one has the opinion monopoly that he's always right. But On Your address is also something to say about how you have dealt with government documents, for example, to amend the ÖIAG Act or the Post-Sparasses Act. ÖIAG law and ÖIAG financing law Novelle 1996: no review, that was whipped through. [[Abg. Gaugg: Interesting!]] Privatisation Act, Bundesgesetzblatt 97 from 1997, a government template: Assessment by individual ministries or Chamber of Commerce, ÖGB and Industrial Association. Federal law on the transfer of the dorotheum to the property of the ÖIAG: no review! Federal Law on the Transfer of Federal Participations to the Property of ÖIAG, Bundesgesetzblatt 87/1998: no review! ÖIAG law, ÖIAG financing law Novelle 1993, which at the time was at least concerned with the dissolution of Austrian industries: no review! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Mr President. Don't be so sad from this speaker's mouth now! In the past, you have pursued a policy in which you have crossed over everything and in which you have not even had the opposition discussed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr President. We want to go another way! Your concern would be justified if it were actually to play out like this, if we were to put jobs at risk, we would waste the stock package of the state-owned companies or businesses in public hands. But all of this is not happening! Look You are only looking at the international statistics on what happens when businesses are privatized, see what the development of foreign participations looks like! [[Abg. Vergestnicht: (a document holding to the height) Mr Trattner, do you know that?]] An OECD study states that there is an increase of 1.6 percent in companies with foreign participation in the workforce in Austria, the UK and France, but a minus of 2.7 percent in domestic businesses. According to this study in the UK, companies with international participation have a share of 40 percent, and in Austria, companies with foreign participation have nearly 60 percent share. As already mentioned, Siemens and Philips are considered examples. We want to go a way on this issue to secure employment in Austria. However, we also want to go the way for employees to have the opportunity to participate in their own companies, in the form of an employee participation action, in which a stock package is made available to employees, on which they have an option that they can buy. This also ensures that employees identify themselves as co-owners with the company and finally end this separation between the interests of employers and those of employees. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is a common positive approach. We don't make it from jux and brilliance. It was you who blocked it back then. The Federal Government had originally undertaken to redeem a privatisation volume of 80 billion schillings between 1991 and 1998. In fact, you only realized a volume of 8 billion schilling. With the proceeds from the privatisation of the ATW, which was 4 billion schilling, you only paid the interest and nothing else. If you had already put in place these privatisation measures at the time — i.e. the Taking it seriously – and using the resulting proceeds to eliminate the so-called extra-budget debt, we would have a completely different margin for tax reform and an employment offensive today. Today, we must first make sure that, over the next two years, we are restoring this federal budget, which you, Mr. Ex-Finance Minister, have left us, so that we can then start a tax reform after two years, which will enable further structural measures for Austria and secure the Austrian economic location. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That’s what I’m looking at!]] Why are we talking about that? – This is the way to the 2000 to 2003 consolidation target. You know exactly where the interest rates have migrated: "Punktgenau" move up the interest rate, "punt-precision"! The additional burden on interest rates will be 5.2 billion schilling in 2001, 10.2 billion schilling in 2002 and in 2003 – I emphasize: the additional burden! – achieve an amount of 14.4 billion schilling. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] If you had already pursued this policy then these additional interest payments would not take place, because, of course, extra-budget debt is also included in the budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: These are two pairs of shoes!]] Former Minister of Finance Edlinger! It is now finally necessary to clarify the following: This federal government does not want to continue your stoned path, because we have the goal, rather than to modernise and privatize it, in the direction that the privatisation proceeds for the government debt service or for the operation of the extra-budget debt are used in the form that in the future the old debt will no longer impose any burdens on the population. That is the objective of this Federal Government, and we will pursue this objective. We will invite you to submit your comments on our programme. But the destructive way you have shown today, Mr Edlinger, proves that the members of the Social Democratic Party have not learned anything from the 30-year-old past. I personally believe that you will continue to be so stoned and will not be able to give the people of Austria a future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4713	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4734	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Even today's urgent request from the SPÖ proves again: The SPÖ is deeply irritated by its farewell to political power. Not only that this debate has become a merciless settlement of the faults of socialist national politics, will the SPÖ fight now even that privatisation programme, which has been negotiated and established with it in the context of the coalition negotiations with SPÖ! Ladies and gentlemen, this is to the most extent schizophrenic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is also the loss of power, which, especially for the Chambers of Workers and the socialist trade unions, is the reason for the immeasurably exaggerated criticism, even leading to the call for and the threat of political fighting, as we have experienced in the last few days. Ladies and gentlemen! We think this is irresponsible. This attitude is also damaging the sub-state companies and is also bringing Austria's economic location into discredit. We reject this policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is finally a question of saying goodbye to an antique and backward economic policy, which is based on the 1970s and still does not want to take note of the global liberalisation of markets and the globalisation of international economic relations. What the Socialist Party is doing today with its urgent request is confirming its economic left wing since Gusenbauer, is ideological monument care for an economic policy conception that has not passed its political test. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The previous experiences in Austria and abroad illustrate: All major privatisations have so far led customers to better and more efficient access to the services offered, to further expand businesses economically and thus to create internationally competitive jobs. That's what we're aiming for. In addition, proporz and party influence are to be eliminated. This is why a new order mode for the Supervisory Board is also set, in which only more top experts with sound economic experience will come into being. And this Supervisory Board will also renew itself in the future. The Minister of Finance can only recall this Supervisory Board more for important reasons, so that it can at least ensure that it is able to exercise its ownership responsibility for so long as there is a public participation in the undertaking concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! By the way, the nature of the Supervisory Order is the only significant difference to the privatisation concept we have negotiated with SPÖ in the context of the coalition negotiations. ÖVP and FPÖ have essentially added only one chapter to this agreement, namely the appointment of a party-politically independent and competent ÖIAG Supervisory Council. We have thus provided for the necessary depoliticization of the corporate bodies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is, in fact, the only difference between the privatisation concept that was negotiated with the SPÖ at the time, and that now implemented by the government! And it is significant that it is precisely this question of depoliticization that distinguishes us in this point, because depoliticization and objectivity were not to be done with the social democrats, especially in this sensitive political and economic field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There will not be an inconceivable radical privatisation, because wherever the companies depend on a certain minimum state share – it has been pointed out: for example, by the contractual conditions facing the OMV or the AUA – the ÖIAG will continue to maintain the absolutely necessary share in its participations in the future and also ensure the Austrian interests in accordance with the contract. Even the excitement shown by the critics about the alleged to be too rapid and total sale or the early privatisation is completely overlaid and not justified, because the ÖIAG and its organs will only determine form and time. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, Deutsche Telekom's privatisation is also intended to help bring the Vienna Stock Exchange back on its feet. The privatisation of Deutsche Telekom will therefore not only bring money to the state bank, but will also ensure a resurgence of the Vienna Stock Exchange, just as in autumn 1996 the German Telekom went on to the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Ladies and gentlemen! Only by this comprehensive and widespread privatisation, through the corresponding participation and preference of small shareholders, can the Vienna Stock Exchange become interesting again for investors. – This is the opinion of all important stock exchange analysts and fund managers, and we share them. Ladies and gentlemen! The Vienna Stock Exchange should not always be compared with the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Let's compare them with exchanges in America, for example, with the stock exchange in New York! Interestingly, the Dow Jones has lost more than the ATX since the beginning of the year. And if you look at Brussels, ladies and gentlemen, you can see that the TOP 20 index is worse there than the ATX – and this should also be said – but in Brussels, it is known that there is no middle-right government, but that left-wing government that is particularly involved in Austria's exclusion policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The privatisation sought by the Federal Government should above all be taken as an occasion for employee participation, because the employee's participation in the children's shoes so far should and must bring an important impetus. It is intended to enable employees to acquire preferential tax-advanced shares. This historic opportunity must not be denied! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In particular, private ownership of means of production creates economic independence, protects against collective prejudice, creates an important incentive for professional self-realization and also leads to identification with the company in which one is employed. Ladies and gentlemen! I am, honestly, horrified at the fact that trade unions obviously do not want to agree with this objective. It is precisely the possibility of economic independence, which the SPÖ and their trade union are really afraid of. They are afraid that the employees and shareholders will emancipate from the SPÖ trade union and feel less like a member of the trade union than rather a part of the company! That's exactly what the SPÖ wants to prevent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no real reason to reject the idea of employee participation and thus miss the trend of time. On the contrary: We confess to that, and we want and will introduce it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4874	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4895	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Murauer: What did you bring? Action!]] I'll be right there. I'm going to turn the order this time, but you can hardly expect it. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: How do you keep up with Austria?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have gained the impression from the previous debate that there are two completely diametric concepts facing each other: since the call for full nationalization, there privatization as an all-healing agent. I think that if the debate continues this way, then there is hardly anything positive for this country. One thing has to be said in connection with the government template – Mr. Stummvoll has just distanced himself from it or it has been said that it is no longer about the fastest possible privatisation –: [[Abg. Großruck: You don't know about yourself in Austria anymore!]] § 8 of the proposal presented to us no longer contains at least one option: that the ÖIAG may, for certain reasons, conclude to hold a particular company, for example for national interest. And if this option is categorically excluded, I ask you whether this is not an ideology for which you have ultimately been guilty. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: It's not true!]] It is indeed true that public interest and public objectives could tend to be more easily achieved by a public owner or by a public owner – I expressly "could" – such as environmental interests or social goals. But then one must also have the political courage to stand up for these goals! However, if you are driving an ordinary profit strategy if you do not put the ecology or social concerns in the foreground, it is indeed the case that the justification for public property becomes doubtful. And this accusation must also be made in all forms of social democracy for their policies in the past. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was not only the Federal Chamber of Commerce, but also the ÖIAG, who, for example, rejected the decision on environmental liability. This would have been a market instrument to make environmental protection also worthwhile for businesses. It was both these groups that had a significant share in the fact that we could not implement such an important, market-compliant instrument. That is why I believe that such a purely ideological debate does very little. As I said, my attitude is: Public property can bring something, but it should also be political courage to support the corresponding objectives. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, the song stands on the private economy, as if there were a sharp border between the private and the public economy in Austria. Here in the House there are many representatives of the social partners, who are always involved in those negotiations that are concerned with promoting the many private companies, including the large corporations you have addressed, in order to provide support to which they hold their hands for support. This is about three-digit million amounts, sometimes even billions that have already been granted. There are also entrepreneurs in this House, for example from the Liberal Group, such as the Prinzhorn Group, who have already received a lot of funding. Then it is easy to vote in favour of the Song of the Private Entrepreneur if you have previously asked the taxpayers to pay the tax! That's not how I imagine private entrepreneurship! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We had only a few days ago in this House the meeting of an answer to a question, and I did not get out of amazement. For example, the support for the mining companies was listed, and among them there were as large and powerful companies as Rio Tinto, the world's largest mining group with billions of British pounds of profits after taxes! – And such a thing is called very successful. But I'm asking: What happens if these companies do damage? What happens when something happens like Lassing? Who will then be asked to check out: the private entrepreneur or the Austrian taxpayer? If you are talking about privatizations, please also talk about these hypocrisys! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I could still mention many companies, purely private companies, who first worked with open hands for promotions, but then went into insolvency. . In order to avoid this debate, you will not come around; it will be in the Committee. One thing I have completely lost, namely an assessment of the industrial sector as a whole. Industrial employment is declining in all developed industrial and service countries. If you are dealing with such ideological fights about privatisation or non-privatisation, I am very afraid that the real future sectors, the tertiary sector, also the art and cultural industry – these are important employment providers throughout Europe – will be forgotten in Austria. These areas are being broken down, and this is at least a past-oriented concept pursued by all three larger parties represented in this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am now coming to the total economic location of Austria. Whether private owners, public owners, industry, service sector, new media: I believe that it is important for all economic sectors, how Austria's reputation is acquired abroad, and what a willingness the Federal Government shows to speak openly about this question – and not unilaterally, Federal Chancellor, as was the case today. You ask the opposition to take action against the EU sanctions, you demand the so-called shoulder closure – I do not like this male-martial word – you apparently require a common procedure. Let's talk about it... – Yes, I know that this name does not fit the gentlemen of the ÖVP, but now I'm at the speaker's desk, and you'll listen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[New call to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's mainly about a backbone, which some of you don't seem to have anymore, and I think that's very sad! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the context of the backbone, it would also be necessary not to show this one-sidedness, but that, Mr Bundeskanzler, the other members of the Federal Government and the members of the government parties, you will finally be criticised if we talk about what this country and all the parties can do together to get out of this situation of sanctions in order to perhaps also develop a common procedure to restore the shaken European trust – that is a prerequisite for that! This criticism is not somehow nebulous, nor is it a conspiracy, but the criticism is based on statements such as those I am now passing on to you, which are the subject of a parliamentary request from the Greens. [[The speaker presented several documents to the Federal Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, who is sitting on the Government Bank.]] I would be pleased if you were willing to talk about it, or about the derailments of your government partner that happen daily – you certainly know the new brochure of the Vienna Freemans. I ask you: You think that's just stupid resentments from Europe – or what do you think? How would you react if you called anyone "Western Bags Napoleon"? [[Abg. Gaugg: What did Mr Voggenhuber say?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What did the Voggenhuber say?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] This also makes it impossible for us to make a real criticism. It will be a question of how far parties in Europe can be regarded as a right-wing extremity or even as a fascistoid. I'm really asking you: What do you think of the resolution of the European Parliament in which statements have been condemned by representatives of your party? Are all those who condemn these statements phantas? Or because you referred to Berlin – I was there, among other things, together with representatives of the CDU –: [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You're going abroad and you're demonstrating against Austria!]] Mr Landowski and the other members of the Group of the CDU together have agreed to a resolution that rejects the appearance of radical groups of right-wing groups calling on the formation of government in Austria. I missed you there! Where were you, like...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5094	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your speaking time is already over. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5110	... have been held high? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There you would have heard, and there should have been clear words! I say to you: As long as you only demand the shoulder closure without talking about it, it will be very, very difficult that the damage of Austria as a whole that you cause will end!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5162	The next speaker is Mrs Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5184	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! It says: The government's planned privatisation package not only destroys Austrian assets but also threatens jobs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Styria, for example, there would be 11 120 jobs, but there are still about 6 200 employees in the postal sector and 2 400 in Deutsche Telekom, which would be affected. Whole Austria is a total of 120 000 jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: How many jobs have you destroyed within SPÖ?]] - Listen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have created at least enough jobs, which you cannot claim! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The impact on subcontractors and industrial service providers as well as banks and insurance companies is not taken into account. I work in a private company and know the problems that arise when, by selling to foreign owners, important corporate cores such as research, development and technology, but also good management to the new owners migrate abroad. This strategy was clearly highlighted by the Semperit example. Ladies and gentlemen! The safeguarding of Austrian influence on important Austrian industrial enterprises and thus the maintenance of employment opportunities must be a priority! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The situation on the apprenticeship market would worsen dramatically, because currently 1 338 apprentices are being trained in the railway sector, and in the field of ÖIAG about 1 400 young people are in vocational training. [[Call: But that's not much]] We are also envied internationally by our skilled workers due to their high quality. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Where are the thousands of students, students, to be accommodated as holiday trainees? [[Abg. Böhacker: In the private sector! I have two interns!]] [[Call the SPÖ:And the rest?]] The ÖIAG has enabled thousands of professional internships. Foreign companies will probably have no interest in it. Privatisation within a short time under great political pressure brings a massive price decline due to over-hazarded company sales. State assets would be thrown away. The right privatisation is industrial policy – and not a means of reorganising the budget! If you only look at short-term revenue when privatising, you pay for it in the long term! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can only sell once – and what is then? There must be no total sale of important Austrian companies such as Telekom Austria, Austria Tobacco and so on. Each family tries to provide money or valuables as safe reserves for unforeseen situations. [[Abg. Steibl: What did the edellinger do?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Save the country of Austria dramatic losses and withdraw these planned laws! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ is ready for negotiation. I would therefore ask the Government to invite workers' representatives and interest groups to a discussion so that common interests can be pooled for the benefit of the country, as only in this way can the path of peaceful balance of interests be continued. Austria's economic location has to be preserved, and it has to be prevented from creating value abroad!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5316	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5338	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! I hear from the SPÖ members again and again, there is a willingness to negotiate at all levels, only: Reality looks different! [[Abg. Grade: Which one?]] I wonder, for example, what reserves my predecessor is talking about. – We are talking about 80 billion schilling debts that you have to answer with your policy and that are burdening the budget each year. This is your form of politics! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiermaier.]] But I also wonder: How seriously should we take Members who demand a special meeting, but then only have a relatively damp interest in taking part in the discussion? And how serious can one still take a party that until recently has held government responsibility and now publicly announces in advertisements that the 13th and 14ths have been held? Is the monthly salary abolished? I haven't read such nonsense for a long time. It must be borne in mind that a party which for years has put the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Social Affairs, now has the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary is in question. That's just too adventurous! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] – I can show you: In full-page advertisements, Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger, the following questions were asked: Will be 13th and 14th. Monthly salary abolished? How seriously can one take a party... – "Fraction of social-democratic trade unionists" this group calls itself. [[Abg. Edellinger: Where?]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where?]] I don't know if you know her; I think you've already agreed on her anyway. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] How seriously can one take a party that foreigners, as long as we have to finance it, are warmly welcome, but who feel that foreigners who bring capital to us are indecent? I'm really asking you: How seriously do you take yourself in these questions? I tell you the following – and this is what I am thinking of: The SPÖ is not about the employees in the companies you are talking about, but only about the influence of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is only about your power influence, which will be pushed back by this privatisation. This will create a free market. And that Telekom Austria is not there today as Deutsche Telekom Germany is to "thank you" because in the past you have stood on the brake with both feet – instead of giving this company a chance! Faith You're telling me: A sound financial and economic policy also enables healthy development for those areas that today suffer financial hardships due to their missing policies, such as the "yellow post" and the ÖBB. These companies have starved you, starved for years, yes, for decades! The main thing is, the party book has voted. The financial year was the year before the end of the year. She's always second-rate. All of this will no longer exist in the future. [[Intervoke by Dr. Doppelmüller and Hagenhofer.]] Please note: You have failed in economic policy from the SPÖ! The SPÖ is today in a whining sensitivity, because it is almost hourly being pushed back its influence, because you get rid of those you think you have fought particularly intensively for them in the past. [[New call for tender Hagenhofer]] You have already forgotten the other employees. For example, you don't have to think about the "consumer" staff, because there's no longer any. – That was the economic policy you have pursued! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: To your crocodile beaches in the question of Austria tobacco. This is just too adventurous: All of a sudden, it's about the disabled who lead the trafiques! Look You're in practice about what's going on with the trophies! Today, some pumped-up people in secondary employment are carrying Trafiken, because they have gotten them inherited or something else! – Healthy competition invigorates business, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! Why don't you take your own nose? It is also too adventurous that – just a few weeks before the beginning of the Chamber of Workers' Elections! – the Chamber of Labour now suddenly realizes that many banks are poorly calculating interest rates, that rents in Austria are far too high and so on. – However, I have missed these calls, when Federal Partyobmann and Landesführer Dr. Haider took up the theme "Mite". At the time, the Chamber of Labour was one of those institutions that had taken massive action to ensure that everything was left with the old, it was about the red comrades and about the red cooperatives who had been affected by it. They have left us a high degree of economic inability, a high level of ingenuity, a mountain debt, which it is now useful to reduce. And I'll tell you: A proper privatisation shift gives the employees in these companies the opportunity to breathe freely once – without party-political influence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5454	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5484	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Good news this morning, in the "Morgenjournal" of the ORF: Children, school classes from all over Europe, also from France, come to Austria and make learning holidays here. – Your sanctions, in spite of your hysteria, do not take place with regard to the isolation of Austria and so on, Mrs Petrovic! That's a positive thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The less good news: Another special meeting! And their holding was still required by a party – I remember what it was like when we together formed the Federal Government – in which it was always said on such days: When do they finally stop with these special sessions?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Today we have one again. Good. You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do not find it easy to deal with the outcome of the October national elections. Elections have a certain forerunner and have a certain follow-up. For the "precise": There will soon be workers' chamber elections, personnel representation elections, which need, so to speak, a scene; I understand that. – For the "back-up": You of SPÖ have the result of the elections of 3. On October 21, 1999, it is obvious that you have not completely finished your work, especially that on October 21, 1999. Januarys have announced that you yourself have chosen the way to the opposition by breaking off the negotiations with us from the SPÖ. This is to be noted, and that is the problem. At the time, the German Chancellor's climate, which in a very special way recommended and withdrew from this republic, said to his employees: "Beware of this Austria!" – I may reply to this: Yes, that is what we are doing – not because of this call, but because of our political responsibility and our sense of responsibility. We not only look after our country, but we take the challenges very seriously and accept them above all! Change processes take place in all areas of our lives, through to budget policy, where there is a real need for action to keep our country stable, to enable the economy to develop dynamically and, above all, to create jobs – I emphasize: Jobs! – to secure. The planned measures are not about your supposed possession, but about the future of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Perhaps the following quote shows the difference between your considerations and our decisions: "One waits until the time changes, the other packs strongly and acts." It is estimated that your estimated attention was that the proportion of jobs in the national area was 20 percent in 1970 – and hardly more than 2 percent today. And it should also be your appreciated attention that the sage: "Some hundred million schilling debts make me sleepless nights less than a few unemployed!" It was totally empty. This was a double bad signal, especially towards nationalists, because necessary structural measures unfortunately failed. Kreisky's word counted – and today we pay for it. Today we have not only debt in millions, but billions in height, and jobs have been lost. The nationalized has already lost enormous amount of substance. That was a serious mistake, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you must admit that! But this mistake could have been avoided. It was about the money of all of us. These losses are our concerns today that we have in common and that we now have to deal with. However, jobs in this area could only be kept by the fact that private investors have risen and these companies have taken over. Some of these companies have even developed very well and have thus become competitive. To give some examples in this context: Stölzle Glas, Glanzstoff St. Pölten, where Dr. Cornelius Krupp has entered, who is now an Austrian citizen and offers 600 employees a really good job opportunity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hostish.]] I would also like to introduce the Steyr works with the Magna Group in this context. But perhaps you are disturbed by the ÖGB at the Magna Group, Mr Frank Stronach – I could imagine – who has repeatedly expressed his opinion on your economic policy. Due to the entrance of Andreas Rudas, the situation has certainly not improved for you by the SPÖ, so I can understand all of this. Mr Rudas has shown very clearly with this change where he sees his future, where he sees his development. [[Abg. Auer: The future at Stronach!]] That's a fact you can't deceive! Our basic position is that a party-political influence in a functioning economic system has simply not lost anything. The losses of past times are still paying everyone: every citizen, every citizen. However, we will ensure that this matter is soon to be resolved. As today a "sale of our country" was spoken of, Mrs. Petrovic, now on your appearance in Berlin last Sunday, gracious woman: I would have expected more patriotism from you! [[Intervening calls and consolation with the ÖVP.]] They are, as it were, standing before the world public and calling out: "Democracy will prevail!" In Berlin you continued to say that you hope that the whole thing was just "a thunderstorm, a black cloud". – It is your understanding of democracy that you do not accept majority voting in free elections. As a parliamentarian, you, Mrs Petrovic, have a one-time, never-in-a-time mistake – before this was done by the public at large! .................................................................................................................................................................. This, please, must be shown here too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Our Federal Chancellor is right when he says: "Whoever wants to keep good, has to change a lot." - We have a lot of good things. Austria is a good country! This government will work with full responsibility on these change processes, for the benefit of our country. [[Calls to the Greens.]] In order to see how seriously we take this, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. I would ask you to put this request to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5619	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Riepl spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5647	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would really like to correct a statement by Mr Gaugg. Mr Gaugg, in his contribution to the debate, said that the social-democratic trade unionists for the abolition of the 13th and 14th. In the case of monthly payments, that is to say, special payments. – This is not right! On the contrary, it is true that the social-democratic trade unionists, together with the other political groups, are taking action in the trade unions to ensure that all workers have a full 13th and 14ths. Reference received as special payments.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5698	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5720	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. State Secretary! High house! For the benefit of this country today, there are several rulers – I expressly emphasize: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. Gaugg: You know that very well now!]] For the benefit of the country, something quite different would be necessary, namely a differentiated and professional discussion with what is among other things our most valuable asset – "among other things" I say, because the environment, in my opinion, is our most valuable asset – with a proper location policy and a proper employment policy. You have not served this today, because – I quote –: "I would not sell in these times, in this situation!" – According to Bernhard Felder, head of the Institute for Higher Studies. Secondly, I quote an expert who can certainly be used again and again in privatisations: "Nothing can be more dangerous than discussing the industrial structure and capital market of a country in a polemic way and towards political small money." This quote comes from Marc Hall, a member of the Supervisory Board of the OMV, who was very much involved in and accompanied in the privatisation of the national lights in 1993. We miss this professional approach with you, and this wooden hammer discussion, which is taking place here, is deeply detrimental to the concern, which is why we strongly condemn them. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Let's leave the church in the village! Let us tell you what it was really about the nationalists before 1984! It mainly contributed to Austria's progress in the labour market, in regional development, in promoting exports, but also in promoting infrastructure, in promoting small and medium-sized enterprises. The nationalized was an engine for the political in-fwing bridge also of the Austrian private industry. That's what you have to say when you're talking about "Schuldenbergen". I believe that so much correctness and historical truth must be demanded here and today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, When talking about postal debt, it must also be said that the post took on a lot of high-quality tasks, at a price that also benefited small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the private sector. There has always been a close association in Austria between national and private industries and private enterprises. This co-operation has contributed a lot in the final effect to the fact that we were able to gain the present status and that Austria is one of the richest industrial states. This cooperation will certainly change because of the changed environmental conditions. That is why we repeatedly call for a professional approach, because for us the central discussion and the central debate about the question is: What is the real task of the state? This task of the State with regard to management functions also in the nationalized industry has not been carried out by those companies which always represented the leading sector. It has not been fully perceived by the OMV, not fully perceived by the VOEST Alpine, not fully perceived by the AUA, for example. These companies have not managed – but this is the task of the public hand or the public-hand programme or the importance of the public-hand – to be innovative and to operate with a view to the future and with regard to future technologies and with reference to environmental and social conditions. This has been neglected – I say quite specifically to your side. [[the speaker looks towards the SPÖ bank series]] So to speak, you have played out a potential, an instrument of action, a design element of the former national lights. This is the way in which we are They are also very likely to contribute to the fact that the other extreme is now being sought in a very radical form, namely privatisation without if and but in a relatively short time. I see only one argument, just a background to this legislative proposal, which is now coming into the Committee: that this government is quick to show that it is making reforms. However, this speed, this speed and this so-called reform profile go at the expense of quality, also at the expense of the substance and at the expense of the serious process. Not for nothing has this law left what and the when still open. [[Abg. Böhacker: (with both hands a "T" forming) Time!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Talk time!]] But what is not open is the debate on privatisation, and this discussion is helping to make our international reputation or the international reputation of the companies that are in the process of privatisation more aloof or worse. That is why I refer once again to the opinion of Felder and also to the opinion of Marc Hall, which both very probably understand some of it. Another element was Mr Kukacka's comments: The Supervisory Board is now new, the Supervisory Board's occupation. Early politicization – now, so to speak, the experts. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No Secretary of State at all!]] I wonder, Who guarantees that perhaps the friend of Minister of Finance Grasser will not be accused or ordered via any detours? Who guarantees that perhaps a new form of nepotism will not take place in Austria – under the title and under the flag of depoliticization? Who guarantees me that's really...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5826	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is over. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5842	This is a very critical question, because I think that the Supervisory Board's occupation policy is very important. And finally...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5869	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your speaking time is over. You have had time to draw up a final sentence, and I therefore ask you, now, to actually terminate the speech. [[Abg. Dr. Moser is trying to talk without a microphone.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The speaking time is over! I would ask you to take note of this. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Moser.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is not a catheter, but the speaker's console! Note, she's a teacher! She's used to it, because the kids can't defend themselves! The poor kids who have to endure this!]] The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5911	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It is quite interesting and impressive when the new clubman and the SPÖ president, Mr. Gusenbauer, together with President Vergestnitsch, is so worried about the Austrian capital market at once – so deeply concerned and so deeply sad that the times of socialist State Dirgygism are finally part of the past! What I heard here today led me to think deeply. Mr Gusenbauer! If you say, We have always celebrated 5 percent loss of value on the ÖIAG companies on the Vienna Stock Exchange!, then I tell you, you really have no idea what is happening on functioning capital markets, on functioning stock exchanges. [[Abg. Grabner: But neither do you!]] [[Abg. Grabner: You're not at all!]] Mr Gusenbauer and my colleagues from the left half of the empire! Mr Gusenbauer said that 5 per cent were a disaster, but he did not look into the paper yesterday. Yesterday, the German stock index dropped by 3.5 percent, the Austrian stock index by 0.5 percent. Throwing around with such numbers is just too dangerous, and I am glad that the self-appointed capital market experts Gusenbauer and Vergestnitsch really do not have the command anymore. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, did a red parade entrepreneur named Hannes Androsch not take advantage of this Vienna Stock Exchange, which has been under socialist curatel for a long period of 30 years, through the Vienna Stock Exchange? Why did Red Parade Entrepreneur Hannes Androsch go to Frankfurt? Why did he successfully privatize there and place his company on the new market with an introduction price of 29 euros? And then why has this stock exchange rewarded this placement commitment with a price of 50 euros within three months? Ladies and gentlemen! The answer is quite simple: because there are working and good conditions there, because politics was more cautious there and because there were not reds there for years but a reasonable economic policy. That was the reason, ladies and gentlemen, and by this example you see that it is good that this era of capital sluggishing and non-on-the-capital-market-sawing is finally ending. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I would also like to write you one more in the main book, ladies and gentlemen: It is an insult if Mr Gusenbauer goes to the speaker's desk today and asks: What are they gonna do in the ÖIAG? – This is a vote of distrust against the management of the ÖIAG, which is a vote of distrust against the experts working there. Mr Gusenbauer, please note: You'll do it differently in the future! One will not be distributed by the hand, but one will serve such well-known institutions as Morgan Stanley, Warburg Dillion Read, Goldman Sachs, Marrill Lynch and similar companies, and one will not be granted by hand, just as the former Minister-, respectful Chancellor-General, Mr Kramer, has done with Telecom. This gentleman, quite quietly and secretly from Secretary-General to Secretary-General, has caught up with the Italian deal, and today Mr Gusenbauer and others complain that it is quite terrible with the Italians. Who was that who led those states? Maybe the opposition back then?- Oh, my God! - I have to say: Please take your own word. This round-the-clock and that of past-time after-summers, ladies and gentlemen, does not make any sense. We will now deal with things at the moment, we will be properly privatized, and no one needs to be afraid of this privatisation because it will be for the benefit of Austria, for the benefit of the Austrian capital market and for the benefit of the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Leikam: With elbows!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5987	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Call:Bures! Bures]] We have one more speech, namely Mrs Bures' speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6013	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger, three hours of debate have obviously left you with zero effect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are concerned that, unfortunately, this debate has shown, so to speak, your 100 percent privatisation ideology has won over to economic reason. And this is the problem we have shown today, which has been very successful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This federal government is not only making serious mistakes in economic policy, but above all in this regard. It tries to sell in a lightning action very valuable, tradition-rich companies without involving employees and without regard to them. It is not about more private or more state, but it is about the fact that – and this is what we criticise – the assets of Austrians are wasting the wealth of Austrians, that the location of Austria is being threatened, and that the unforeseen consequences for 121,000 employees in that country. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You don't watch!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: There's a suspicion that you didn't watch!]] These are not any companies in this ÖIAG group. This is about key industries, it is about the future industry of our country that is wasting you. There are 121,000 people employed, and of these companies, we have so far received around 20 billion schilling of tax revenue annually. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's embarrassing what you're saying!]] I already know that you're unconceivable in this area, so these husch-fush actions happen. And what I very much regret is the fact that, although we have talked about privatization with brains, this privatisation is now taking place without brains, without patriotism and without social conscience, if that goes on what you want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They lack the necessary social feeling, but you also lack the sense of the value of balance of interest. In other words, one cannot understand that: You wanted to get through this law in a quick procedure that you wanted to go through this without involving the workers' organizations. Do you know what you're doing with it? – You have caused political unrest in Austria by isolated Austria from the outside and split it inwardly. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, you were!]] Unfortunately, with the next step you are taking, you will cause uncertainty and social unrest in our country. We will show this, and we will also show how much you have deceived the workers and the "small" people and are working against their interests!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6121	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Talk time for another minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6142	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's special meeting has shown very well that the Federal Government has new concepts to secure jobs in the long term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This special meeting was very good. We would like to thank her for being desired, even if not all of our previous speakers understood what it was all about.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6178	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A little more quiet! We shall proceed to the voting process. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Trattner, Dr. Stummvoll and comrades concerning the promotion of employee participation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 4.) Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. [[Abg. Kiss: There you can see who is for employee participation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: For real employee participation!]] [[Further calls.]] Short debate on the response to the question 244/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6254	We are now entering a brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 244/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the author is not necessary. We are going into the debate, and I am drawing attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Dr. Spindelegger as an applicant for the request to open the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6285	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the media, there was a great deal of conspicuousness about the handover of some ministers to their successors. We have also discussed this several times in the House. A number of colleagues from the EIA and I have therefore tabled a question to clarify the matter. We now have an answer from the Federal Minister for Finance, ladies and gentlemen, who, however, is not one of the most beautiful chapters in Austrian politics. The facts that lie on the table give me cause for some consideration. Point 1: Even the first sentence of the Federal Minister of Finance's answer to the question of how the more recent circumstances were in the handing over of Federal Minister Edlinger to Federal Minister Grasser is a lot of saying. It says: "A delegation of office by Federal Minister Edlinger did not take place." - That's it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Awesome!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this is really a process that is looking for the same. So far, I believe, it has been common practice in this Republic that even if one has conducted a ministry for a long time and if one does not appreciate the successor – whether it is because he comes from another party, whether for personal reasons – and does not necessarily count among the narrowest circles, one has the size of giving the office to his successor accordingly. I mean, this is a proper procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I understand that it is a pain to be such a full-blood politician as Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger and to hand over the office to a minister of another party. However, I cannot understand that a policy of the burned earth is being pursued and says: I want to break all the bridges to this successor, I don't want anything to do with that. – This is a process from which we absolutely distance ourselves from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As is common everywhere in Austria, also on the political parquet of one municipality, one country in which the office is transferred from one mayor to another, from one council to another, a certain rule of play is to be observed, and this rule of play is: [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No, please, I have had other experiences!]] The state comes before its own person and before the party. I mean, you should continue to do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But it's not just a question of the Court. That is my second point, and there it really becomes a bit more worrying. If one asks what files were actually handed over by Minister Edlinger to the next Minister Grasser, then this answer is also brief and promising. Mr Grasser, Federal Minister, answers: "Acts were not handed over." - Point and end. Ladies and gentlemen! This too is a process I cannot understand. Either there are no files in a ministerial office that are interesting, or they have been destroyed, so that no one has to be handed over. This is a state that I cannot support and cannot accept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there is also a need for information from Mr Edlinger's ex-minister. I can't imagine that there wasn't enough materials in the Ministry of Finance that you're talking about. Such "smallities" as the 2000 budget execution, such "smalls" as the threat of excluding Austria, if one does not abolish the anonymity of the savings book, such "littles" as the ECOFIN Council, which is about to come, would actually be material to talk about with a successor. No transfer has taken place. This too is a truly shocking example of the fact that one apparently presents the party and its own existence before the administration and before the welfare of the state. That is not acceptable to us either! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A third point, ladies and gentlemen: The answer to the request also shows odd details. For example, it is apparently true that the data on the PCs' hard disks has been deleted in the ministerial office, even all operating programs, and that all the stored numbers have been deleted from the digital telephone devices, including all direct connections to the other resorts – a strange process! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: All operational programs?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Probably he still has a copy at home!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not just the private numbers!]] The fact that the direct management in the Parliament, with which one can follow the debates in the National Council or the Federal Council, was cut off and that it was no longer functional, is a bit of a succinct detail. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Vandalism is that!]] You might think you have to look away from that generously. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be generous about this. It is nothing but the symbol of a certain attitude that becomes manifest. I believe that this response by the new Minister of State Grasser to the question has become a kind of document of a spirit of social democracy, a document that says that 30 years of SPÖ government responsibility in key areas have apparently led to the fact that one has also seen a ministry, a ministerial office as an extended arm of one's own party. [[Abg. Grabner: Ask the Pröll!]] But that is, I believe, not only quite clearly against the Constitution and quite clearly against the practice in our country, but in my opinion it is also extremely worrying in terms of content. We also want to strictly distance ourselves from it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should take this negative example on the occasion of making it clear that there are rules of play in this Republic and that a minister can in no way regard a ministerial office or a ministry as an extended property of his own, but that it is always a matter of ensuring that, according to the rules of the game of a democracy, the minister who is in office has the right and the right that the whole department should support him so that everything works well in that Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, my last sentence on this is my conclusion: It is obvious from these processes that 30 years of socialist finance ministers were enough and that a change of power was more than due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6467	The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6498	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see this opportunity to present my view of things on the basis of this answer, with six questions in five minutes a little bit of a problem. I'll try and make it quick. First of all, I would like to say that Mr Grasser's reply is correct and corresponds to my information. But I would like to say on the first point... [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The information corresponds...!]] Of course! I would just like to say on the first point that neither the day before nor the day of the fishing of the new Federal Government of Mr Mag. Grasser was trying to get in touch with me. Since such contact was also delayed in relation to my cabinet, I commissioned the President-in-Office to prepare for the takeover of technical office. However, I would like to mention here half the completeness that Mr Mag. Grasser was looking for a conversation with me and I immediately promised. The conversation will take place tomorrow. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Very late!]] Excuse me – I don't know why there's a smile. If you want an appointment, you have to agree, and that's not happening! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And that you wait for it to come on Friday – whenever you want – that's a little bit of a demand. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Tomorrow the "Amtsgabe" takes place!]] Secondly, On the issue of the issue of file transfer, I would like to say that it has never been my working style to leave files. All files have always been edited on the same day. Therefore, no open files could be passed either. However, I would like to point out – and it would have been fair if this had been established – that I have commissioned my sections in the last week to compile a documentation on the needs that will arise in the next few days and weeks in the Ministry of Finance. Such 90-page documentation was also handed over to Mr. Grasser. On the third question: Of course, no files from the Ministry of Finance – and not even in many saying blue bags – were burned. The completed files have always been sent to the competent departments for storage. On the question of the computer, I would like to point out that, of course, correspondence has also been done within the framework of the cabinet, of which I did not actually intend to pass it on. The programmes have therefore been deleted by the technicians of the relevant section. Of course, that is to be restored. The deletion of the stored telephone numbers is similar. There were 20 short numbers, of which at least two thirds were those which were of no relevance at all to the successor. Therefore, this storage was deleted. Unfortunately, on the sixth question concerning speakers, I cannot give you any information. They weren't removed in my room. But I've heard that one of my employees has been removed in an office. I am personally sorry, was not caused by me, nor would I have been bought. I would like to say clearly that, if there had been a request for a transfer of office, such a one would of course have taken place.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6578	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6598	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Edlinger, you are a bad loser, a really bad loser! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To this day, you have not digested that you are away from power and that you have been chosen by the citizen. I thought you'd go in over time and say once – and today you'd have had the opportunity to do so: Okay, at the hour of the transfer, I was excited and didn't act like it would have been! – Now you would have had the opportunity to say that it was not right and bring things back to the ground. But no, you have repeated your statements bitterly! Mr Edlinger! It is unfortunate if you say here that you have waited half an hour for the new Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... three hours were!]] You might have been able to wait half an hour longer, because you will finally receive your ministerial salary for the whole month. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not true! That's wrong!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I should like to remind you of one thing, Mr Federal Minister, that some time ago the House decided to amend the Federal Tax Code, which has made every entrepreneur obliged to do the following: [[Abg. Grabner: Remember the Rosenstingl! That was your best friend!]] When it creates accounts of computer-aided IT, it is not necessary to store the data as well as the operating systems on transport files and to submit them to the financial management. But what are you doing as Minister of Finance? – You not only delete the files, but also the operating systems! For me, the question here is, Mr Ex-Finanzminister: Don't you want to do a proper handover, or do you have something to hide? – Both would be very bad. Do you have anything to hide from your files, or did you not want to notice that you were selected by the citizen? [[Abg. Grabner: Rosenstingl, that was your friend!]] Mr. Ex-Finanzminister! In my 30-year career as an economic fidelity worker, I have participated in many business transfers – but I have never been able to see such a desavowing of the transferor in these 30 years. This is really an incredible way and an increase of the new Minister of Finance! Mr Edlinger, you should be ashamed of this procedure. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: We must acquire friendship, Mr Böhacker!]] What do you mean, Mr Parnigoni? [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have to buy it, you don't get it!]] Has To give you something? – I don’t think you have something to give – except for the debts of the SPÖ. You might be able to give 300 million schillings to SPÖ debts. [[Abg. Grabner: Just like Rosenstingl!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But if you want, we will privatize the SPÖ and renovate it again, because you are probably not able to do so anyway. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Rosenstingl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This transfer is a moral picture of how social democracy is about in the event of the loss of power. This is a moral picture of how the SPÖ does not want to take note of the citizens' democratic decisions!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6757	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6778	Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies! Gentlemen! Now we have it in writing with this answer from the Minister of Finance, which has always been colported in the media and under the hand in the last few weeks, namely that there have been acts that are inconceivable and which, for example, must not happen to a normal club, a club registerr. Every proper club will hand over the cashier to the next officer and the next cashier. But you, Minister Edlinger, did not. [[Abg. Edlinger: This isn't a club!]] They – and we now have black on white – have not only deleted data but also operational programs. [[Abg. Edlinger: I didn't delete anything!]] That's negligent! They have probably done much more than it stands inside, and this is in need of information. And you're talking about tolerance and humanity, are you? - You have this in Your principle programme shall include: We Social Democrats are committed to the ideal of a humane, democratic and just society. - Where? With such actions? [[Abg. Leikam: Look who's trembling!]] You have to show this to the public exactly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr. Steindl! You'll get a heart attack if you're so upset!]] They speak of truth, truthfulness, mutual respect – and then the socialist trade unionists on the International Women's Day spread falsehoods, for example: The Blue-Black Government's programme does not provide sufficient support for re-privileged women, no further extension of childcare facilities, a poor situation for single parents. - Quote. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I ask you: Where do you get this? How did you even get that? What gives you the right to spread here falsehoods? – These are untruths! We certainly don't like that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And for this, Mr President, can the so-called extra-party union be used? – It is no wonder that many members of the trade union think of leaving this union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] That's right, Mr Grabner, you've been betraying the language, the mimik and the gestics all the time. And we, Mr Edlinger, can't do anything if perhaps the sausage has really gotten away from you – we are certainly not from the People's Party! My previous speakers have already stressed this: It's very hard when you're 30 years old...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6886	Ladies and gentlemen! I call Mr Steindl.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6901	Of course, it is very difficult to say goodbye to power after 30 years. And it's sad how it happened. Just keep going, the population sees this very well: Electoral Day is Payday! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6931	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6953	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can do it briefly, although it is not easy for one to distinguish whether one should take the debate seriously or leave it where some of the speakers have also spoken, namely in the ridiculous. [[Discouragement by representatives of the Free and the ÖVP]] Only one sentence for the serious part: In fact, it is a terrible spectacle as you offer it here, i.e. one another – I mean the old and the new government fractions – on how to deliver it or not. However, I would like to point out to you, Mr Steindl, that this kind of contribution is not suitable for solving the problem better in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to the ridiculous part of this thing. The question 6 regarding speaker system is obviously located in the realm of Walt Disney. I just wonder why you did not answer a question: why Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger did not leave the Panzerkracker-Bande AG to clear the safes. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because nothing was inside!]] – At such a level, we will not solve the problem. One last thing about this: According to Machiavelli, a regime with internal political difficulties is usually building up an external political enemy. Clear thing! – It’s obviously the other way around with you: They have the greatest difficulties and enemies outside politics and therefore build an opponent internally politically, in a way that is simply ridiculous! - Don't be angry with me!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7005	Mr Karl-Heinz Grasser spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7035	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. I can tell you, you can be calm. I do not wish to add my written answer to the question, although I could. But I was told that there should be a presidential agreement that the Minister must speak about. In order to save me from having a debate with you, because I do not speak and would not, so to speak, comply with a presidential agreement, I can refer to my written reply and thank you for your attention. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I would have liked to know this Presidential Agreement! They don't exist!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7087	Mr Kostelka referred to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7108	Mr President. This debate over the last few minutes has been very serious. But if a Minister of Finance calls for an agreement in the presidency that does not exist, that is at least to be noted. Federal Minister! You're not in office for so long, you may not know: An agreement that a minister must speak up has always been rejected by the representative of the government. But if you are willing to do so in the future, we will be happy to come back to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7148	For business treatment: Mr. Dr. Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7172	Mr President. Although there is no decision by the President that a minister must speak up, that is right. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Then he said the untruth!]] But there is a permanent courtship in this House that a minister is speaking in discussions of questions – a long and often attached wish of the opposition. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But after the reasoning – and not at the end!]] The liberal ministers adhere to this Court, unlike the Social Democrats, who no longer want to hold to the Court in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7226	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7247	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 56/A by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades concerning the compensation of the municipalities for the loss of the tax on beverages, a period of up to 20 years. In March 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I greet the mayors of Tyrol of yours!]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-03-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7286	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 105/A to 116/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 467/J to 518/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 21 December. It will be convened in writing at 11 a.m. on March 2000. The sitting is closed.
